ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 21 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 10 May. Today's sitting will discuss the resolution of the 9th Permanent Commission on issues relating to the minimum vital flow of rivers and streams. The agenda of tomorrow's session provides for the discussion of motions concerning the Conference on the future of Europe, already planned for today; the second resolution of the constitutional bill on the recognition of insularity, with an absolute majority of the members of the Senate; the discussion, from the drafting seat, of the bill on the celebration of the 8th centenary of the death of Saint Francis of Assisi. Tomorrow's sitting, which does not include closing hours, will be suspended from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. At the request of a parliamentary group, the Assembly will not hold a meeting on Thursday 28 April. The week from 2 to 6 May will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the decree-law concerning the economic effects of the Ukrainian crisis and to the annual law for the market and competition 2021. Tuesday, May 10, from 16.30, the decree-law on the economic effects of the Ukrainian crisis will be discussed. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Tuesday 10, at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 10 May: [[Tuesday, April 26, h. 16.30-20 - Doc. XXIV, No 64 - Resolution adopted by the 9th Permanent Commission on issues relating to the minimum life flow of rivers and streams]] [[Wednesday 27 April h. 9.30 a.m. - Motions concerning the Conference on the Future of Europe - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 865-B - Insularity recognition (second resolution of the Senate) (vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of Law n. 2414 - Celebration 8th centenary of the death of St. Francis of Assisi (from the writing site)]] The week from 2 to 6 May will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, May 10 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2564 - Decree-Law n. 21, Economic effects of the Ukrainian crisis (expires on 20 May)]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2564 (Decree-Law No 21, Economic Effects of the Ukrainian Crisis) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 42'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u6	The next item is the resolution (Doc. XXIV, No 64). The report has already been printed and distributed. He asked to speak, in order to supplement the written report, Senator Bergesio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u7	Mr President, some of the data I am going to list are important in order to frame the issue that we are dealing with here today in this House. Only 3 percent of the planet's water is sweet and only 0.9 percent of it is represented by liquid surface water (lakes, streams, rivers, ponds) readily usable by vegetation and life forms. Although it covers 70% of our planet, water is a finite and irreplaceable resource. Water uses in Italy are as follows: 54 per cent for agricultural and irrigation purposes; 28 per cent for civil and drinking; 20 per cent for industrial and 5 per cent for energy purposes. Italy is in second place in the European Union for water withdrawals for drinking use with about 152 cubic meters per capita per year, that is twice as much as the European average and is in the first place in the world and in Europe for consumption of bottled mineral water, with a per capita consumption of 200 litres per year, despite a quality of Italian water supplied by the very high network and recognized in most of the world. Without water there can be no life and there can be no agriculture. In Italy 85% of agri-food crops are irrigation; the availability of the water resource is therefore essential to keep the quality agricultural system alive, without which the competitiveness of Made in Italy agri-food and the vitality of most of our territories are at risk. Water generates one fifth of the national gross domestic product, but Italy is at the last places in the European Union for investments in the water sector; investments on the water network are an average of 40 euros per inhabitant per year, compared with over 100 euros per inhabitant of the European average. The estimated increase in the invading capacity needed by the country to meet water needs during the period of scarcity is 5 billion cubic metres. With a view to sustainable management of the water resource, as the European Union also calls for, projects and actions must be promoted that take into account the specific characteristics of the most fragile territories of our regions, and encourage flexible management of ecological defluxes and encourage the evolution of the agricultural sector towards a model that involves the use of more efficient irrigation techniques. Above all it is of fundamental importance the realization of invasions that allow, on the one hand, to face the lack of availability of water resources and, on the other, to protect the territory in case of extreme events, such as floods that now more and more frequently devastate our peninsula. The ecological transition in the use of water resources - a path dictated by Community strategies and which we have very clear - requires a great commitment and a great investment effort on the part of the water supply chain. For the next five years, the estimated requirement is about EUR 10 billion. In this context, as a Parliament, we must support the increase in storage capacity. In our country, 89 percent of rainwater flows directly into the sea without being reused. We must realize these small and medium invaded in order to give strength and energy to the destination of water to a plurimo use, to what is civil human use, to irrigation, to industrial, to the production of energy, to the rolling of the floods. In short, there are a number of aspects that are absolutely binding and necessary to achieve a better usability of the water. With this resolution, the need to prevent national agricultural production, for which measures have already been envisaged for the increase in production, from being penalized by a combination of problems arising from the dramatic drought situation, which since last autumn has hit the most important hydrological basins of the country, to which are added the possible deleterious effects of the transition towards the new methodology of calculation of the minimum flow-out vital to ensure the maintenance, in the watercourses, of the ecological outflow, in support of the achievement of the objectives of environmental quality of water bodies, under the framework directive on water. This framework directive on water has been transposed in Italy by legislative decree of 3 April 2006, n. 152, the so-called TUA (single environmental text) and provides for the definition, with a special decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, of the criteria aimed at guaranteeing the minimum life flow into the bodies of water, providing that all the derivations of water still in place are regulated by the granting authority through the provision of releases aimed at guaranteeing the minimum life flow of water bodies. With the decree of the Director General for the protection of the territory and waters of the Ministry of the Environment of February 2017 the guidelines for the updating of the methods of determination of the minimum vital outflow, in order to ensure the maintenance in the watercourses of the ecological outflow have been approved. The application of calculation methodologies, unfortunately, involves, in the light of the studies carried out so far, a significant impact on the derivations that, beyond the climatic trend, will be subject to serious restrictions such as to lead to a possible failure to meet the irrigation needs of the entire territory, with inevitable repercussions on agriculture, the environment and also on tourism, the industrial sector and the craft sector. We therefore propose the achievement of the experiments, delaying for this purpose the time limits for adapting the water releases of the existing derivations for a period of at least two years, allowing within the same period the realization of activities of analysis of hydraulic and climatic data, as well as socio-economic studies for the identification of interventions, also structural, aimed at preserving the food safety of the population and the maintenance of the economic system of the Country, without prejudice to the respect of the previous discipline on the vital minimum outflow in force until 31 December 2021. We also call for an immediate commitment to the Government and Parliament to find the appropriate financial resources to support the study and analysis activities needed to complete the transition from the minimum vital outflow to the ecological outflow. We also call for the adoption of a strategy for regulating water consumption that aims immediately at the realization of collection works for the reduction of water collections and the increase of the water release of the invaders of the water basins, considering also to intervene on domestic uses through interventions aimed at water saving and, consequently, also energy saving. Subsequently, in the medium to long period, we also call for the adoption of compensatory systems for the implementation of consumption, so as to allow the allocation of suitable financial resources for the realization of new and more efficient aqueducts (with automatic reading and innovative systems), the implementation of the capacity to invade the water basins and, finally, the realization of new invades. I would like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production of the Senate, President Vallardi and all my colleagues for their efforts. We have been working on this since October 2021. I also thank the National Association of Consortiums for the management and protection of the territory and irrigation waters (Anbi), its president and director, the authorities of the basin, the environmental organizations, the Regions, the Ministries and all those who have carried out a proactive activity on this measure. Everyone has assessed it positively in support of our agriculture, which means - today more than ever - nature, environment and food. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u8	I would remind you that any agenda may be submitted to this document before the end of the debate. Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u9	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are debating closes the close and continuous work of the Agriculture and Food Production Commission, for which I thank the rapporteur and colleagues, together with whom we have worked to arrive at shared proposals that represent commitments to the Government to protect the agricultural sector. The Commission's aim is precisely to protect the interests of the agricultural sector, which is the driving force of our economy, without it and without it, even though it is unfortunately deeply affected by the vicissitudes that have followed in recent years and, in particular, in recent months. Colleagues, the subject we have discussed in detail in the Commission and in today's general debate is topical: the minimum vital flow, that is, the amount of water that must be ensured for the survival of aquatic ecosystems to safeguard the body of water and, in general, for the multiple uses for which the basin is intended. We are, therefore, talking about water resource management, which is nothing but life management. Water is life; we say it today, in 2022, when there are so many medium and long-term goals that we set ourselves. I am thinking of climate neutrality by 2050, the cornerstone of the European green deal. If we look at the medium and long term with the objectives to be achieved, we must also look at the issues that will have to be addressed and addressed. 2050 is also the year in which 5 billion people will be at risk of lack of clean water. Allow me to bring the problem back from the macro dimension - which is already disturbing and not a small one in itself - to the micro dimension: the generalised water crisis necessarily involves a water crisis also for agriculture, that sector which, in simple terms, guarantees food on our tables. Water for agriculture, a fast-paced sector, bringing our country to the achievement of many significant goals, is like the fuel of Formula 1: without, the famous single-seaters cannot run. Without water to irrigate the fields, our products of excellence simply cannot exist. That is why we have focused on this issue. During these months, there have been a number of subjects that we have audited in order to deepen the issue and bring to the House the document which will shortly be put to the vote. Among the experts on the subject we have listened to university professors, corporate groups, representatives of the territory; I remember the hearings of representatives of the National Association for the management and protection of the territory and irrigation waters (Anbi), agricultural professional organisations, cooperation bodies, ISPRA. This is an argument that has as structure a complex regulatory framework of reference, starting from 1989, with the definition of the minimum vital outflow, until reaching the new guidelines drawn up by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, that have updated the methods of determination of such outflow, in order to make operational the passage to the ecological outflow. Several audit entities have highlighted how the transition to the new calculation methodology will result in a possible failure to meet the irrigation needs of the entire territory, with inevitable repercussions not only in the agricultural field. All this, therefore, aggravates an already negative situation, also in the light of the effects of climate change, which is evident especially with the repercussions on agricultural activity. I am thinking above all of prolonged drought periods. That is why we considered it necessary to bring forward a phase of careful monitoring and testing of water management, with a careful data collection. We have to understand that data in agriculture is fundamental, otherwise everything would be unpredictable. Therefore, the fundamental point is to continue the experimentation for at least two more years and to identify, therefore, interventions aimed at preserving the food security and the economic system of the Country, ensuring that the transition from the minimum vital outflow to the ecological outflow is accompanied by the assessment of the impacts on the ecosystems that are intended to protect or restore. They are therefore important objectives for the Commission, which I believe are absolutely necessary to protect the sector and guide it towards an adaptation of the legislation that is not immediate and simple, sure that it can continue in this direction, the same one that always pushes us alongside our excellences of agri-food. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u10	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u11	Mr President, the resolution on issues relating to the minimum vital flow of rivers and streams represents a very important conceptual leap forward in considering the issue of watercourses, their water catchment area and the bioma that lives there. In fact, the minimum vital outflow, introduced in our legislation on this matter as early as 1989, was a monco concept in that it almost left in the shadows another important component connected to the rivers. This concept neglected the flora and fauna as well as the human presence that gravitates there. Well, the transition from the minimum vital outflow to the concept of ecological outflow (DE), with the transposition of the Water Framework Directive by Legislative Decree No 152 of 3 April 2006, finally makes it possible to consider the issue in a more complete and respectful way. Article 2 of the decree of the general manager for the protection of the territory and waters of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea n. 30/STA of 13 February 2017 specifies that the District Authorities of the basin, as responsible for the function of coordination of the regional activities aimed at the implementation of the legislative measures, are responsible to identify the methodological approaches for the determination of the vital minimum outflow. The issue of rivers is therefore finally addressed in a specific, respectful and ecosystem way. The current climate change, especially in the last twenty years, is putting a strain on our ability to adapt, but we human beings are intelligent beings and therefore able to adapt to technology and science, which will allow us to give adequate answers. Water is a valuable asset even more than a scarce resource and even if our planet in the solar system is the blue planet, just for the pre-eminence of the waters, it is worth remembering that only 5 percent of the present water has a drinking or irrigation use; the rest is sea. We are faced with a need and water emergency, it is useless to deny it. There is little rain and consequently a shortage of water. We need to adapt and it is the policy that must be able to take the right legislative measures and mark their guidelines. However, it is also true that each of us, all of us citizens, must adopt responsible behaviour towards the water resource, making use of it more aware and respectful. The forecasts for next summer unfortunately do not give much hope. In fact, there is a very high probability of negative precipitation anomalies and an average of 15 percent less availability is expected. The agriculture sector is the first to be affected by this situation because it is the most exposed. However, it is clear that all sectors will suffer. We must therefore adopt new strategies now and for the future, also in the design of living, looking for ways and techniques of planning, so as not to disperse this precious resource that is water and throw it to the sea or let it flow into the sewage system. We can't let that happen anymore. We must also study systems for collecting rainwater and get used to the responsible and conscious use of it. Let's remember that each river has its own name, its own particular history, that is, it has its own specificity and unique individuality that interaction with man has often made an identity factor and has allowed sustainable and also necessary economic activities. The rivers must no longer be regarded as an entity to be exploited or, worse, as landfills; they are living and vital, they are integrated systems. I repeat, they have a name. Increased protection would be desirable if they were recognised as legal personality just as it is happening in Canada. This would be further ecological protection. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for their fruitful work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u12	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u13	Mr President, today we are debating a resolution on which we have worked in the Committee on Agriculture and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President and colleagues for the work that is being done in the 9th Commission, where we always try to have the precise objective of trying to give answers that have a sense and direction that are certainly attentive to our planet - and this is an example - but also to the world of agriculture, which needs to be supported, helped and protected. On the other hand, as we well know and as we have said so many times, in the last two years above all, that supply chain is very important and has allowed this country to never have problems even during the pandemic, although it has been very hard affected by the problems that the pandemic has derived. Coming to the resolution, Mr President, we are talking about a transition that is taking place from the minimum vital outflow indicated by the regulations that concern practically everything that tries to balance the use of water resources with the maintenance of that vital outflow to maintain ecosystems and biodiversity, which are so important also for sustainability, therefore, also for agriculture, in the beehives of rivers, streams and all those places where there is water. The current legislation provides for the Basin Authorities to define and update the water balance sheets and guidelines for the definition of such vital minimum outflow, adopted in 2004. President, 18 years have passed since 2004 and you know perfectly well that the world has changed and certainly also the climate in our world has changed; water has become one of those primary goods, as it has always been, but even more so, called - may or may not please - blue gold, to try to make understand the fundamental importance that it has today, having become an increasingly difficult resource to find, especially in some countries, and that even in our country - ahinoi - becomes increasingly difficult to manage with extreme care and attention. European regulatory innovations have subsequently introduced another type of concept, the ecological outflow, which recalls in a faster and simpler way than I said before, namely finding the necessary balance so that, within our rivers, our streams and where there is water, it never comes to lower the limit of water in order to affect the ecosystem of those places, which must be protected. The transition began in 2017 and is certainly the result of a very positive commitment because, precisely, it pays attention to sustainability, the ecosystem and biodiversity, as I said a moment ago, therefore to the protection of water resources, but it must also look very carefully at everything that is done with water. Speaking of our agriculture and our agri-food supply chain, which depend on water, we must be very careful and prepare all those fundamental updates that this methodology could in some way compromise, producing some disruptions on the use of water in the agricultural supply chain. In fact, there could be economic, but also social, consequences for agricultural and productive systems in the areas concerned. That is why the resolution, which we have worked on and which has been adopted by the 9th Permanent Commission, calls for this potential problem to be taken into account and for this transition to be governed. If then, to the problems related to this passage, we add the drought, that is increasing and that affects many areas of our Country and the situation of the plants in many areas of our Country - we hope that on this topic the PNRR can give a turning point, especially in the regions of the South - and therefore if we add the climate change and the deficit of structures of some areas of our Country, we understand that maintaining this balance and making this passage will be very difficult. We therefore need extreme attention from all of us, who cannot, of course, ignore the education and lifestyles that teach respect for the water resource, especially the younger generations. Mr President, let me make a note of this: I believe that the younger generations on this issue are far ahead of us. [[Applause]] Fridays in the children's square teach us that they care about everything about our planet, much more than we care about it. So we have so much to learn and surely we, the a little older generations who have lived in well-being and, if we want, even in waste, we must learn how fundamental water is and absolutely cannot afford to waste it anymore. So water management, at this moment, becomes a challenge that we are all called to grasp, in the context of the ecological transition, of which we fill our mouths in so many speeches, but which must perhaps be experienced and expressed less in words and more in deeds. I repeat, therefore, that this has led us to reflect - our resolution looks above all at this - with particular attention to the world of the agri-food supply chain. In fact, water is not only about the care of the fields and the cultivations, but as we know, it is also about livestock farms, which without water could not survive. Therefore the attention to saving and the culture of water saving must also be accompanied by the protection of this supply chain, which is fundamental. It is a chain of life, as someone has said, with a definition, in my opinion, right. We must therefore look at this, at sustainability and at the ecological transition, which I believe is indeed a huge challenge, which I hope we will be able to live up to. With the Commission we have produced the act for our examination, precisely to engage all the senators on this issue. We hope that with the vote in favour, which I hope will come, we can all be truly aware of this important issue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u14	The debate is closed. I would like to say that the text of the resolution already adopted by the 9th Standing Commission has been presented with the G1 agenda, by the Natural Senator and other senators, and the G2 agenda, by Senator Quarto and by other senators whose texts are being distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Bergesio, does not intend to speak in his reply. I call on the Government representative to speak on the resolution already adopted by the 9th Permanent Commission and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u15	Mr President, I welcome the resolution already adopted by the 9th standing Commission. I am in favour of the G1 agenda, at the first signature of the Senator Naturale. I also give a favourable opinion on the G2 agenda, provided that in the part of the commitments to the Government the words are deleted to ensure that the district authorities of the basin, in agreement with the Regions, up to the words "waterbasins of competence" are deleted. I therefore call for this part to be deleted, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u16	We will then ask the proposers whether they accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u19	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Government, rapporteur, colleagues and colleagues, as the rapporteur and colleagues who preceded me just now, like Mrs Biti, the resolution that we are about to vote on today, intervenes to heal a vulnus with reference precisely to the issues relating to the minimum vital outflow of rivers and streams. It is a vulnus that has its roots in a complex regulatory framework, which has also had to relate to the impact of European sources. In this context, the European Commission's Action Plan for the Protection of European Water Resources, which has improved the quantitative and qualitative management of water, has been essential, putting the European framework back on track and adding to the concept of minimum flow-out that of ecological leakage, to be understood as the volume of water needed for the ecosystem to continue to thrive and to provide the necessary services. This was followed by successive decrees of the Ministry of the Environment. It is from here that, as rightly pointed out by the work of the Commissions, thanks also to the support work of the many hearings, the risks and also the problematicities can be grasped. In fact, the transition to the new calculation methodology may not be free from risks and consequences, which could result in possible non-satisfactions of the irrigation needs of the entire territory. The consequences of such a framework are easily intuitable: it would not only be the needs of the agricultural sector that would suffer, but the industrial and craft sector would also be directly involved. These risks must also be avoided because of the delicate moment in which we are living, a time that is certainly difficult after two years of limitations dictated by the pandemic emergency that has overwhelmed the industrial sector and businesses at all levels. However, it is also a complex and unfavorable time because of the sudden climate change, which over the last twenty years has been a serious limit, as well as a problem for the agricultural sector. The resolution that we are bringing to the attention of this Assembly today, on which Italy Viva-PSI will vote in favour, is moving in a problematic context. That is why we ask the Government to intervene quickly in various areas. We call for the necessary procedures to be initiated to ensure the continuation of the trials, while at the same time delaying the time limits for the adaptation of water releases from existing drifts, for a period of not less than two years. We want to support and intensify, including through the provision of adequate financial resources, the testing of the new water resource management regime. However, we also call for a reasonable period of time for the necessary socio-economic studies to be carried out, in parallel, in order to follow up the implementation of the ecological outflow as part of the Basin Plan. These are some of the areas in which we ask the Government to act immediately, so that a strategy is adopted for a targeted regulation of water consumption and the criticalities that have been detected by the Commission and that risk having a deleterious impact on the many sectors of our economic fabric are resolved. So the hope is that today, with the vote in favour that we too express as a Group in this resolution, we can quickly put our hands on several critical issues that I wanted to express briefly in this speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u22	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that we are experiencing a particularly complex moment, which, for many reasons, has a negative impact on the agricultural system and beyond. A conflict is taking place on the European territory between Ukraine and Russia; an economic situation, already dramatic in itself because of the pandemic, has struck us dramatically in recent years in terms of health, with negative consequences also on the productive sector; climate change causes increasingly extreme events. In this context, rules, laws and directives are inserted at different times, at times when normality - if we want to call it so - could allow us to make choices that unfortunately today we must have the courage - and, I add, the wisdom - to change so as not to make the situation even worse. The act under discussion goes in this direction. Basically we ask the government to postpone the entry into force of the rules for the implementation of the ecological outflow of watercourses, in place of the minimum vital outflow, which - I want to emphasize - still remains in force. I do not retrace the administrative history of the various provisions, I merely point out that in this context this act is indispensable in order not to further preclude the withdrawal of water. We must give priority and have responsibility. Let it be clear that we care about the environment and the ecosystem of the waterways, so much so that the rules of the vital minimum runoff are there and remain, but today we have to deal with a changed situation. We therefore need to understand the reasons for this request and this act. We have said that the conjunction of certain situations is creating a perfect storm for the management of the national water system. The pandemic has created many problems, blocking for two years the majority of ordinary and extraordinary interventions. Because of the health regulations many offices have been closed or with reduced staff; design suspended; everything slowed down to properly focus on the health emergency. But now we have to make up for lost time. The Russian aggression against Ukraine has led to an exponential increase in the costs of energy and raw materials. The sanctions have also caused a negative impact on our companies, to which we must try to give concrete answers. Today Europe realises that there is no food sovereignty. Italy is aware of how dependent it is on imports, so it has rightly decided to increase the cultivated hectares and for this reason more water is needed. Climate change is now characterized by extraordinary and sudden events, sometimes with excessive rainfall, sometimes with prolonged drought periods, such as what we are currently experiencing, with months of drought and a winter period that has seen little snowfall and that, in view of the forecasts, will continue with a summer with scarce rainfall, making the situation even worse. In all this, the entry into force of the ecological outflow is involved: a further regulatory criticality that must be postponed at the moment. In the Commission we have understood the consequences of the entry into force of this principle and after having audited, in just over two months, many subjects, we have drafted this document to be submitted to the Assembly's opinion to engage the Government in some actions to be carried out to deepen the impact of the entry into force of the rules of ecological outflow, but essentially to extend by two years from the entry into force of these rules and to make further investigation into this matter, also with a view to the problems described above, in order to make it all more sustainable. Of course, the management of water resources, which invest different sectors - from agricultural irrigation to civil use, from artisan-industrial use to the production of electricity (I remember that in recent months the production of hydropower has dropped by 50% because of the drought in place) and, not least, the protection of the environment - cannot be based only on the problem of the subject matter of this document, but should have a wider spectrum of action, with a direction cabin that can better coordinate all the actors involved in the management of water resources: from the regions to the authorities of the basin, from the territorial areas to the municipalities, from the societies owners of the networks to the consortia. Mr President, allow me to make a reflection which concerns in particular the parliamentary work and the management of the same by the Government, which is not careful - I use an understatement - not only to the opposition's proposals, but to the work of the same Commissions. In October 2020, in the Committee on Agriculture, we unanimously approved, if I am not mistaken, the report on the deal allocated to problems relating to reclamation and irrigation consortia and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur at the time, Senator Trentacoste, for the work he has done. In that report the Government committed itself to several points and I quote the most important ones: the revival of the strategic role of the reclamation and irrigation consortia in the management and defence of the territory and its resources in the contrast to the hydrogeological risk and in the support to the national agriculture; a revision and strengthening of the model of government of the consortia that consolidates the role of the farmer and the direct beneficiaries of the consort activities; the adoption of measures aimed at the strengthening of the National Plan invaded, in order to complete the work of execution of the already partially realized works; to prepare the study of a plan of dredging of the invades and of care of the watercourses that allows to recover the volume of water collection. All actions that, if put on the field, today would have allowed us to tackle the water problem certainly with greater tranquility. All this could not be done, that report did not come to this House and so we could not give these guidelines that would have been fundamental today to solve the problem of water. Similarly - to make a further point - if the agricultural damage deal, which was approved in the Commission, had been brought to the Chamber, perhaps the SAP emergency could have been dealt with differently. President, politics - I say this to the representative of the government - must also prevent and not only deal with emergencies when they can be foreseen. I say this also in order to stigmatize how this heterogeneous majority renounces to discuss measures not only of common sense, but also necessary, in order to ensure the precarious balance between the various political forces that make up it. As always, we as Brothers of Italy make our contribution and guarantee our support for all those measures that we consider useful and necessary for the nation. For all these reasons, I announce, as already expressed in the Commission, the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u25	TARICCO (PD). Mr Undersecretary, the resolution on our attention at this moment places a central theme, namely the path of safeguarding and enhancing a good among the most precious, water, especially in the context we are experiencing, in the light of the climate change in progress. We are talking about this in particular by looking at the uses that we have closest to us, in particular the agricultural one. We verify the theme of water starting from the current regulatory path. It has already been said by colleagues who have spoken earlier: we are moving within the implementation of the Water Framework Directive in a particular year. This is the year in which a transition begins. From the previous regulatory framework and calculation methods for the outflow which must be left in rivers and streams after water withdrawals, according to the method of life-saving minimum outflow, the transition to ecological outflow begins. It is certainly an important step, because the objective of this transition is to enhance not only the quantity but the quality of the water. On the other hand, it is an enhancement that takes into account all the environmental context around the water and therefore the surrounding environment. A transition that, as has been said by colleagues who have spoken, starts substantially from the decision of the European Commission of 2015, transposed in Italy by the legislative decree of the Ministry of the Environment of 2017. After that date, the Basin Authorities first and the Regions then moved to give concrete implementation to the new calculation methodology, which must take into account all the variables to which I referred first with regard to the water balance of the river basins and all auctions and streams. It is certainly an important and fundamental step. However, from the findings that emerge from the first simulations of implementation and from the reworking of calculation methods, as we have been represented in a significant and evident way in the hearings we have done in the Commission to prepare this resolution, it is quite clear that there is a significant impact on what are the releases that would be necessary to achieve these results, in many cases in a significant way, and that they would have to impact both on agriculture on the levies for irrigation and on energy production for releases intended for the production of hydropower. All this is happening in a climate context, in the current year, in which all the data we have at our disposal highlight the forecast of a negative anomaly of precipitation ranging from 15 to 20%, at least for the data available at this time. The combined arrangement, therefore, of potential rules that would have a negative impact on the possibility of derivations and captures aimed both at irrigation use and hydro use and at lower natural water availability from precipitation risks creating very strong criticalities on the hydroelectric sector and on agriculture. This in the light, among other things, of a framework of context in which the events that we have experienced in this last year and a half, with regard to the pandemic situation first and the crisis linked to Ukraine then, have made evident the extraordinary need that the whole country has both on food supply and on energy supply. In the light of this awareness, of these considerations and also of the fact that in the transposition regulations to which I referred before (both those of the national legislative decree, and the implementing rules and the authorities of the basin have developed) it is envisaged in particular situations the possibility of derogations that affect the general rules that have been given to us; in the light of all this we have prepared this motion for a resolution which basically sets out a way. On the one hand, we are aware that the regulatory framework we are talking about is based on the division of existing water in the light of actual uses; we are therefore aware that the real bet we face is to work with investments to increase invading capacity, to reduce losses in water transport, water saving in general and in agriculture, taking into account the new technologies made available. I am thinking of the use of sensors, the use of precision agriculture, the use of drip and spray irrigation forms and other forms that allow maximum rationalization of uses. This will be the real bet. However, in the quota, with the resolution which we adopted in the Commission and which is put to the attention of the House, we create the conditions for determining the scope for careful monitoring by the Government and a re-evaluation of the methods of calculation defined. In fact, we have been told in the hearings that anomalies are emerging in many river basins about the calculation mechanisms. The latter, therefore, should be reviewed and re-evaluated, should be taken into account the economic and social consequences of the full implementation of the rule in order to determine whether revisions are necessary. All this over a two-year period, in order to manage this transition with tranquillity, so that it does not have too much impact, such as the one represented, on agriculture and on the hydropower sector. We believe that this is a solution of great common sense, which, among other things, goes in the direction of the regulatory provision of derogations and flexible, flexible and time-modulating implementation mechanisms - as it is written in the rules that have been transposed and put to our attention - because we believe that this assessment is necessary, in order to meet the needs to be put into play. The agenda that has been presented and which we have signed goes in the direction of completing this framework, clearly reaffirming that in this sense we ask the Government for a strong commitment to intervene on watercourses, on the renaturalisation of the shores, on the valorisation of the environment. In fact, we are convinced that this is a good to be protected and safeguarded, but in a path that does not impact suddenly, however, in a year of itself complicated for the level of precipitation, and that you do not risk having a negative impact on an agricultural sector that, for the situations that we have experienced, we know to be central and crucial for the future of the country. For all these reasons, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, many of the issues dealt with in the resolution as well as the concerns of the general framework are certainly acceptable, but I must point out that the instrument of guidance focuses mainly on the supply difficulties that are likely to occur with the application of ecological leakage. I understand that we are faced with a rather complicated and difficult situation, especially this season, also because of the drought. In my view, however, it is not very clear that a number of instruments must be put in place to protect our rivers and waters, which are a fundamental resource for us, an absolutely crucial element. We must not ignore a requirement which, in my opinion, should have been the focus of our attention and which, in some way, the Senator's agenda. Fourthly, it is a step forward from this point of view: we cannot ignore the fundamental need for an improvement in the ecological state of our waters, in a very compromised situation. And so we must not miss the terms on which we focus our attention, because the crucial issue for us is how to ensure the maximum well-being of the ecological state of our rivers, in terms of environmental protection. Our fundamental concern is to prevent the entire water system of our country from reaching points of no return, with serious consequences both for supply and in general terms. It is true that some experiments on the application of ecological outflow indicate that the parameters do not necessarily improve. In my view, however, we must be very careful in supporting a further slippage of application or a possible derogation. We absolutely agree with the continuation of the experiments, but these must serve to identify - in this sense, too, the agenda of Senator Quarto - more effective practices to improve the health of our waters. We must therefore not remain anchored in instruments which have so far, however, shown all their limits, such as minimum life-flow. As has also emerged during the hearings, European and national regulatory developments have long revealed the need to adopt more appropriate measures for the management of water flows, overcoming and/or supplementing the concept of life-saving minimum outflow. In my view, the concept of the introduction of environmentally friendly flows is an important point of view. It is okay to continue testing, but we must not lose sight of the fact that the objective is an ecological outflow whose regime is absolutely in line with the environmental objectives set out in Article 4 of the Water Framework Directive. In my view, we must consider the importance of outflow in ensuring these same objectives. The condition of our waters - you know perfectly well - is already very compromised. Only 40 percent of surface water bodies are in a good ecological state. Our watercourses are unfortunately subject to an indiscriminate and legalized attack, often even with very wrong hydraulic maintenance. There is the indiscriminate cut of the riparian vegetation and the dredging of the trees, made with the excuse of hydraulic safety. It is therefore a management that, between regions, reclamation consortia, offices and territorial technical services, is all less than homogeneous. However, we know perfectly well that in many cases it has been built in dangerous areas and that the percentage of soil consumed along the rivers has increased; so not only has hydraulic danger increased, but all this is a further serious problem. We are in a period of climate change and climate chaos, in which long periods of drought alternate, such as what we now have, especially in northern Italy and in the Po basin, with sudden and extreme rainfall. In a situation like this, I believe that we must certainly go ahead with the trials, as well as putting in place a set of rules and push strongly on this. In general, the adaptation plan of our country, I regret to say, is unfortunately still very late so that, if we want to save the health of our rivers, of the territory and of agriculture, I think it is absolutely necessary to continue to give a series of guidelines regarding adaptation to climate change on this specific issue. I therefore think that we need to take action on some absolutely urgent issues, such as launching integrated actions to reduce the hydrogeological risk and improve the ecological state, reactivate the ecological functions of rivers, halt the further artificialisation of the water grid, review the concession rules to ensure more water for the system and put in place, for example in the agricultural sector, a number of measures, including incentives. Among other things, you know better than I how much farmers and farmers' associations have made proposals and are willing to put in place mechanisms and incentives to reduce water collection and the need for water itself. Today we have technologies and techniques that can allow all this, from precision agriculture to other irrigation systems. To do this, since we live in difficult and complicated times, we need to put in place a system of incentives. Agriculture, which is sometimes a victim as we know, can help or not to solve the problem. Since there is a very strong problem of food sovereignty in our country, I think that, as I have already said, we must put systems in place and provide incentives. Thanks to these technological advances we must also introduce other signals which, for example, must also come from the national rural development plan: to introduce the factor of water temperature and riparian vegetation in determining the ecological outflow; to entrust the system of regional environmental agencies with the task of monitoring the hydrogeological balance; to carry out a qualitative-quantitative characterization of the waters in the course of significant floods and to regulate the acceptability of the realization of the plants. We also need rules on mini hydropower, because we always need to see the balance between costs and benefits. Finally, and above all, natural purification techniques should be encouraged and a major information campaign should be promoted for the recovery and use of rainwater. As you see, then, there are a number of things that can be put on the field. Personally, I am not opposed to continuing the trials and to better verifying the data; the important thing is that we have a clear objective. For all these reasons, by failing to fully agree with the resolution, we will abstain and vote in favour instead of the G2 agenda, at the first signature of Senator Quarto. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u31	DE BONIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, water is a vital asset and must be administered in the most sensible way possible throughout its cycle. The outflow, which we are dealing with here, is an essential part of it. The concept of vital minimum outflow has been introduced into the Italian legislative framework by Law No 183 of 1989 and is then amended and updated over time until the transition to ecological outflow. At present, the minimum life flow is the instantaneous flow rate to be determined in each homogeneous section of the watercourse, which must ensure that the physical and chemical characteristics of the water flow are preserved and which must be taken into account for the purposes of granting the derivation concessions and, more generally, when drawing up a water balance. The implementation of the European Directive 2000/60/EC, through the water management plans, has laid the foundations for a development of the instrument for the protection of the vital minimum outflow towards the concept of ecological outflow. In the Commission, through the examination of the deal assigned, we have deepened the consequences of the transition from the regulation of the minimum vital outflow to that of the ecological outflow, with a view to ecological transition. However, we realized that the passage, if implemented too rigidly, risks producing negative effects, among which the reduction of the availability of water for irrigation purposes, with obvious damages to the entire agricultural, industrial and craft sector. Ecological leakage is therefore a key element in the implementation of measures to protect and safeguard the environmental status of water bodies, as it contributes to ensuring the achievement of the quality objectives of water bodies set precisely by water management plans. The subject clearly highlights the need for regulation of resource uses, particularly in agriculture, which is largely supplied by surface water bodies. This is in order to adopt measures that, in mitigating the impact of the agricultural sector on the qualitative and quantitative state of the water resource, are also based on their sustainability in socio-economic terms. This approach must be clearly contextualized in the different district areas because of the collection and supply systems that characterize the irrigation sector. In the case of the district of the Southern Apennines, referring to the consort irrigation areas, much of the resource destined for irrigation purposes is taken in correspondence of invades. The presence of compensation systems based on invades, in some cases even of a multiannual nature, derives from the peculiarity of the watercourses in the territory of the Mezzogiorno, with a often highly variable outflow. As a result, the collection and supply systems for agriculture have been designed and implemented, taking as constraints the lack of adequate flow availability to meet the needs to be met during the irrigation period. The territory of the water catchment area of the southern Apennines is characterized in a very peculiar way compared to the rest of the national territory due to the presence of an imposing network of infrastructures entrusted to the transfer of water resources between neighbouring regions. The drafting of the draft water plan has seen an update and a deepening of the analysis of the anthropic pressures agents on the surface and underground water bodies and the consequent impacts. The hearing cycle in the Commission has therefore made it possible to collect very important documents, from which the complexity of the regulatory framework has arisen. The Agriculture and Agri-food Production Commission has also noted that the transition from the minimum vital outflow to the ecological one is taking place in a particularly unfavourable context given by the environmental emergencies of the last twenty years, such as the increase of the earth's temperature and the occurrence of increasingly frequent extreme and unpredictable weather events, with the consequent prolonged periods of drought alternated with intense precipitations, most of the times with devastating effects for the territories. During the examination of the given affair, therefore, there was an urgent need to review and adapt the current implementing instruments, with a view to the rational use of water resources. It was also clear that it was appropriate to carry out meticulous monitoring of water management and data collection, considering it useful to carry out the necessary trials. With the resolution before the Assembly today, the Commission considered it appropriate to point out to the Government the need to act urgently in various areas: to initiate the procedures necessary to ensure the continuation of the trials for a period of not less than two years; to support the experimentation of the new water resource management regime, including through the provision of adequate financial resources to support the study and analysis necessary for the completion of the transition; to allow a fair period of time for the conduct of the necessary socio-economic studies to follow up the application of the ecological outflow; to ensure that the transition from the minimum vital outflow to the ecological one is accompanied by an accurate evaluation of the data on the flow into the beehive and the impacts on the ecosystems that are intended to protect. Therefore, since the main aim of this resolution is first of all to protect a fundamental asset such as water and to provide for gradual mechanisms in the transition from the current system to that of ecological outflow, as the ecological transition would like, in order to fully assess the effects on the agricultural sector, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u34	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I greet the Undersecretary Centinario, the Government and all my colleagues present at the debate on the resolution on issues relating to the minimum vital flow of rivers and streams, important for the world of agriculture, but above all for the environment. I would really like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for their work. Yes, we voted unanimously, but the subject is not at all simple. As we have heard from the speeches in general, but also from the explanations of vote, it is not a simple subject; on the one hand, there is the survival of the world of agriculture and, on the other hand, the will of the many ecologists who, in my opinion, rightly want an ever better environment. It is clear that there is water flowing in our rivers at stake; it is not an absolutely simple subject at a very difficult and very delicate time of climate change, which we have been hearing about for several years now. We listen to a lot of discussions on this issue and a lot of people say that we have to fight climate change. I don't think we can fight climate change, but we have to manage it, something quite different. This must be done absolutely because Italy, among the European countries, is perhaps the most affected by climate change. We have seen them, we are suffering them in the world of agriculture, there are so many damages that our farmers and our farmers have suffered in recent years, but the worst of the problems is the increase in drought in our territories. About 20% of our territories - a very important figure - are at risk of desertification. Given the lack of water flow in our rivers, the salt wedge is climbing, making it very difficult to cultivate land near the mouth of the river and, therefore, the sea. We need to better manage the water resource in our country. I remember that in Italy, over the entire surface, about 300 billion cubic meters of water fall every year. There are many, but we have a significant problem: we cannot contain even 10 percent of these 300 billion cubic meters of water, not even 30 billion cubic meters, because we do not have water works and invaded enough to contain this water. It would be very simple to have the water available and then be able to irrigate the fields, but we are not able to manage the water resource. [[Applause]] What then? I think it's also quite simple, almost elementary to solve the problem. We must intervene economically, as stated by the National Association of Consortiums for the management and protection of the territory and irrigation waters (Anbi), which I would like to thank for the great work it has done. A work that we also did in the Committee on Agriculture with the survey on the water situation of all Italian consortia. We have a leopard spot situation, which is generally sufficient. However, we have understood from this resolution that a lot of money must be invested. We have not invested many; I address the Government, represented here by the Undersecretary Centinario, but Minister Patuanelli certainly knows that the money we have made available for the irrigation of our territory, for the invaders, is not at all sufficient. We have not allocated a billion euros; between the PNRR and the last budgetary manoeuvre we have put 960 million in order to manage the invaders in the country, while it would take four times as much. I believe that we must consider this calmly on everyone's part. I remember the fairy tale of Esopo's cicada and ant: in this country we are perhaps a little too cicadas; we spend a little too much money in things that can also be useful, but we cannot give them to everyone, indiscriminately, and then where they actually serve - as for agriculture - the money available is not there. There is what I personally think is a fairly simple mathematical equation: agriculture plus water gives us food, but the same does not happen without water, and we absolutely need food, today more than ever. [[Applause]] The bad facts that are happening in the war between Russia and Ukraine have made us understand how much we need agriculture in this country; they have made us aware of how much Italy does not have self-sufficiency for food supply. We must recover food sovereignty in this country: they ask us to produce more corn; they ask us for more grain, because we discovered that we mainly imported soft wheat almost completely from Russia or Ukraine. However, how can we ask ourselves to do more agricultural production when we do not have enough water for everyone? That little water we have available if we contend with civil use, our aqueducts and our people, and I remember how much we must invest in the aqueduct system of water management, since in the national average more than 30% of the water consumed by our citizens, before being consumed is dispersed, because the pipelines are broken and lose. 30 or 40 percent of the aqueducts, depending on where they are, are broken. You have to invest; it is easy to recover water. We need to invest in agriculture 4.0: we need to invest in new irrigation methods; we need to invest in invades, because the water in our country comes, yes - I will always remember the 300 billion cubic meters of water - but at the wrong time: it comes too much when we don't need it and then, when we need it, we don't have it. It is therefore very simple to solve the issue: money is needed. Before concluding my speech, I would like to reflect on a debate that we had in the Committee on Agriculture, when it was said that we would not present any other draft legislation, because it was running out of time for the legislature. Well, I think we have time to get the money back. I can think of the famous coach Vujadin Boskov who says that the game ends when the referee whistles. Here, let's think about this. In my opinion, before the end of the parliamentary term whistle arrives, we must absolutely find the money to invest in the world of agriculture on irrigation in favour of all our farmers. That is why the Lega Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u37	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the resolution before this House today is the result of the deal that the Agriculture Commission has committed in a tight cycle of hearings to shed light on the issues raised by institutions, reclamation consortia, the environment and production activities concerning the implementation, at national level, of European Directive No 60 of 2000, which laid the foundations for the evolution of the instrument for the protection of the minimum vital outflow of watercourses towards the concept of ecological outflow. The ecological outflow can be considered a conceptual evolution of the minimum vital outflow: it does not replace it, but their values integrate with the addition of the environmental component. In addition to ensuring a minimum instantaneous flow rate downstream of the derivation and collection works, in order to safeguard the characteristics of the bodies of water, in order to achieve the environmental objectives set out in the Community framework directive on water, as defined in the directive on ecological defluxes, the efficient and sustainable use of water resources must also be ensured, protecting the environment and thus ensuring their renewableness over time; all this, monitoring the state of water bodies and quantities, in response to the natural and anthropic alterations linked to the different periods of the year. In addition, ecological outflow means the volume of water needed for the aquatic ecosystem to continue to thrive. There is talk of specific quantities closely related to the various sites, i.e. the ecological outflow must be calibrated on the individual streams, as each stream has its own peculiarities and has its own clear identity. Of course, the environmental component must be guaranteed for the protection and conservation of natural habitats and of fruition, as defined in the water protection plan. It is therefore quite right to guarantee even the minimum defluxes, but we cannot overlook the fact that the calculations have been carried out with an algorithm calibrated on the hydrogeological conditions of central-northern Europe, difficult to apply in all other countries. In particular, they cannot be applied to many Italian rivers, especially with a torrential character, which in some months of the year are loaded with water - let's think of spring, with the thaw, and autumn, in the season of the great rains - while in other periods of the year they are almost dry. In addition, it has been clear from the hearings that not all watercourses have been studied so far and therefore important Istat data are missing, especially as regards water flow measures. A disturbing fact is that of the approximately 7,500 bodies of water in Italy, only 10 percent have stations for the monitoring of the flow rates, not being there a unitary agency for the orographic study, but the whole is entrusted to several agencies, the ARPA and the offices of the Region, that all too often do not provide complete surveys of the data. A more efficient water observatory is needed in response to climate change. Moreover, to date, the results of the trials, which are indispensable in a context of low predictability and continuous evolution, have not been received, the data have not been verified and often there is room for misleading news. The need to review the framework in depth and adapt existing instruments to new technologies and virtuous practices is therefore inevitable, with a view to rational and thrifty use of water resources. Hence the resolution which we approved in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production at its meeting on 6 April to ask the Government to initiate the procedures necessary to ensure the continuation of the experiments on the new water regime, supporting them economically and intensifying them, thus delaying the time limits for adaptation, for a period not less than two years. All this in order to ensure that the transition from the minimum vital outflow to the ecological outflow is accompanied by an accurate assessment of a set of data, such as beehive flow rates and impacts on the ecosystems that are intended to protect or restore, in order to adopt a clear strategy for regulating water consumption. Of fundamental importance is to promote the renaturation of the watercourses and the vegetative belts of the banks, in order to stabilize the shores, to favor the shade and, consequently, to fight the erosion and the raising of the local environmental temperature. It must therefore be ensured, through a balanced contemperation between economic and social pressures and environmental requirements, that water is used properly and sensitively, through the promotion of campaigns for the recovery and use of rainwater, water distribution systems and irrigation techniques, which, using new and more efficient technologies, can save water. The impact of human activities is always increasing. It is therefore essential to run to the shelters in order to avoid the deterioration of both surface and underground waters and at the same time to preserve protected areas. The protection of all forms of water and biosystems must not be without the eco-use by the individuals and undertakings to which they are directly linked. The objective to be pursued for a forward-looking policy that wants to prevent irreversible damage to the Italian socio-economic system is precisely to stimulate with determination, science and consciousness, that is to make further efforts to quickly complete the necessary research studies for a correct evaluation of the data, in order to maintain, yes, the ecosystem balances indispensable to the health of our planet Earth, but also to allow the resilience of the agricultural and productive activities related to it. For all these reasons, the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of this resolution when we consider it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u39	Excuse me, Senator Abbot, how do you intend to vote? ABATE (Mixed). I intend to vote against the resolution, unlike the Mixed Group which abstains. I speak on behalf of the Alternative component there is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if until recently the Committee on Agriculture - it is true - was working unanimously, but on good measures and in favour of the agriculture sector, since the government of the best has entered into force, which is doing its best, unfortunately I must say that this is no longer the case. Beyond the fact that the use of water must be optimized and beyond the usefulness of the extension of the entry into force of the ecological outflow in relation to the minimum vital outflow that is currently in force, the methodology that is currently being used is not acceptable. In a measure that contains a common point in favour of the sector they stick wide meshes so that all kinds of speculation can take place. In this respect, the derogations which are ventilated and which can be implemented, but which will be a certainty, are absolutely not acceptable: I am talking, for example, about those derogations that the regions can make with regard to certain waterways. It is true that PNRR funds have not been distributed at all for needs, while invaders and water management were necessary. We preferred to give money to supply chain contracts at a time of crisis such as this or the food districts and we did not think about structural deficiencies and difficulties. The water shortage at this time, with climatic variations, is structural. I'm also asking the Minister to review the funds allocated to the PNRR. If we have to ask for money, ask for it, but we do not do serious and irreparable damage to agriculture and the environment. That is precisely why I declare the vote against the Alternative component there is.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u40	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u41	Before we vote, I would remind you that the agendas will be put to the vote after the 9th Commission document. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 64. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G1 agenda, presented by the Natural Senator and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G2 agenda was re-modulated by the Government and the reformulation was accepted by the presenters. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Quarto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u44	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking about an area of exotic animals, which has thousands of farms and tens of thousands of workers, and which could cease to exist on 8 May, because of Parliament's error. To be clear, we are not talking about tigers, pandas and all those animals that are guaranteed and protected by the Washington Convention, which Italy signed in 1975, but about fish, aquariums, parrots and canaries, which for the most part are not even imported, but bred by very Italian companies, which risk being outlawed by us. This is not for a European regulation, but for a rule that we impose on ourselves and that no other European country has adopted, and that concerns import, marketing and conservation. To give some figures, only the Italian Federation of Orniculturists counts 20,000 breeders, who in the last year have ringed 1.7 million specimens, of which a third exotic. There is a national association that collects Italian companies that breed parrots (we speak of 160 companies and 20,000 specimens), but it concerns for example specialized veterinarians and doctors who adopt and use parrots in the management of selective mutism of children. All of this, unfortunately, could be outlawed. For a year now we have been trying, as a League, to replace the specific ban that we have delegated to the Government by regulation. We are absolutely in favour of greater health controls and of the quality of life of animals: this is not in question; however, we do not understand why millions of Italians who have as an animal of affection an exotic specimen must be placed on a different plane from those who may have a dog or a cat, with a damage of billions. This is only because of the ideological approach of a part of environmentalists who are at risk of not protecting the environment, of not favouring animals - which could even be dispersed in habitats that are not their own, even more accustomed and with the risk of haunting them - and instead of favouring the zoomafias and illegal imports against which, for example, Legambiente is fighting. What we are asking for, given that the delegation expires on 8 May and that this issue should be dealt with in the next Council of Ministers, is that every political force of those that had already spoken last year introduces, yes, a regulation, but not a ban. The appeal to the government, therefore, since there are a few days left, is to correct our mistake and there is an amendment in this sense presented by the League also to the current delegation law, because it is okay to protect, but not destroy the economy, without protecting the environment and animals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u47	CORRADO (Mixed). The Hospital Santa Maria di Misericordia was founded in Albenga in 1558 and in the following centuries important bequests of local benefactors allow it to be extended and strengthened. In 1956 the old structure in the city center is enlarged with a modern pavilion, but in the early 2000s it will be abandoned to realize, thanks to the sale of this and other goods, bequests of the ancestors to the community, a new hospital in a more peripheral position, easily reachable from roads, highways and air vehicles. When it was inaugurated in 2008, it was the newest, most functional and modernly equipped hospital in Liguria. Soon after, however, the policy of dismantling it begins. First, it is up to the obstetrics and gynecology department, which, not even used, is looted of all equipment, including water delivery tanks, transported, in some cases nighttime, to other nosocomi. Then the other departments are closed away and, consequently, the E.R. is closed. This, it is said - and the facts seem to confirm - to facilitate the entry of private groups into the hospital. In 2012 thousands of people go down to the square to protest, they are also collected 20,000 signatures in support of the hospital and the emergency room, but politics does not see and do not hear. In an alternation of short openings and long closures, of calls for privatisation and revocations of the same, we have arrived today with thousands more people in the square to ask again for the emergency room and the use of the hospital in Albenga, which at the moment is a splendid empty container. We are talking about spending millions of euros on poor and poor hospital facilities, while we are not using a good available and perhaps the Court of Auditors would have something to say about it. It is important to emphasize, then, that the Balduzzi decree, to which always refer the detractors of the hospital of Albenga, does not take into account that the area, with about 60,000 inhabitants, for most of the year sees the number of residents exceed the million for the tourist presences. Moreover, in Liguria distances should not be measured in kilometers, but in times of journey for the disastrous state of communication. Ambulances take tens and tens of minutes to travel a few kilometers and reach the emergency room of Pietra Ligure, the closest to Albenga, perennially collapsed, as the operators and patients, forced, even elderly, to wait even ten hours before they can be visited. The hospital in Albenga and its first aid are therefore indispensable to guarantee the right to health of the inhabitants of the area and of anyone who needs care there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-427.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.20 a.m.
