ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u6	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr. President, he died a few days ago, Francesco Forte. He left on tiptoe, on the worst days, the holidays, assuming there are better ones. Francesco Forte was a Member of Parliament, our colleague from 1987 to 1994, elected in the ranks of the Socialist Party, until his destruction by judicial means. A lucid intelligence until the last days of his life, which often in recent years many members of my political area have drawn. A tireless pedagogue. I remember certain nights, when he, already in his old age, exhausted to me continued to dispense pearls of wisdom, lucid analysis, precious advice, but above all humanity. Score Economist, several times minister and undersecretary for the Socialist Party; he was a full-on intellectual and a true liberal socialist. For him, freedom was an unnegotiable value and was a great support for both those who expressed a talent and those who showed a need. He hated those who thought he had the truth in his pocket and was himself a free man and a hombre vertical, as we would say in Spain. She was a largely underrated figure. If he had not been a Craxian socialist, a loyal companion, in good and bad luck, even in the "second Republic" he would have had other duties and at his death he would have been given many other honors. Francis, a man with an extraordinary capacity for work, also made a fundamental contribution to the struggles of freedom and development, engaged by Craxi and the socialists, to bridge that great gap between the South and the North of the world. In fact, I recall that, after the experience of the Government at the head of the departments of the economy, before, and of the Community policies, afterward, he wanted him Delegate Secretary for the extraordinary interventions of the Third World in his second Government, strengthening even more a partnership that, even before political, was human. This common vision continued in the years when Craxi held the position of personal representative for the UN Secretary-General, Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, for the reduction of debts in the Third World. Francis, with his studies, was a good collaborator to develop that plan of redemption and dignity still today of extraordinary relevance. I want to say goodbye to him here, asking the House to remember him with a minute's silence. I want to greet him as you do among fellow socialists: hello, Francis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u7	Senator Craxi, the assembly joins the family's mourning. I therefore call on my colleagues to honour the memory of Francesco Forte by observing a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u8	He asked the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on draft law No 2463. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u9	Mr President, the first Commission is calling for a postponement of the arrival of the measure in the Chamber. We need at least three more hours to conclude the examination of the measure in the Commission, to vote on the amendments for which there are already the conditions for doing so and also on the others, on which we await the opinion of the Budget Commission. We will therefore be able to dismiss the measure in the Commission at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u12	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business with regard to what Mr Parrini has said. I recall that this decree-law of 26 November, which introduces compulsory vaccination for police, school staff and other measures, was largely exceeded by the decree-laws of 24 and 30 December and 7 January. The amendments were tabled with a deadline, not extended, of 14 December. Since then it has been twenty-nine days and we have not yet been able to begin the examination of the amendments, because we must agree with the majority. We were supposed to start work at 3:00 yesterday. There has been a delay to this day for this reason, but at 9 a.m. we did not even have a second discussion about the absence of the government. There was clearly no intention, since the representative of the Government, who had every right to stay wherever he wanted, was in the corridor outside the Commission's courtroom. The Constitution and decency say that the laws are discussed in the House or in the Commission, in front of the citizens, with a record and not in endless negotiations in the majority or in the context of whomever you want. This is fine, it is normal that it should happen, but a minimum of decency should be respected in time, because these measures have a huge impact on the lives of Italians and cannot be discussed in the corridors, to the total detriment of the possibility of examining them where they can be voted, where the Constitution stipulates that we should vote in the Commission and in the House. In fact, it does not escape that it seems that the discussion of the decree-law is going to be exhausted today, because tomorrow there is no sitting. It is all reserved for the corridor and nothing arrives in its own institutional headquarters, in a situation in which moreover we examine a decree-law that has been largely exceeded by all the others, if not for some details, on which they manage to nail themselves. All right, I can also understand the problems of the majority, but it is done in accordance with timetables, decency and the need to examine measures in the Commission and in this House, not in corridors, not in private negotiations or in private negotiations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u13	Senator Malan, President Parrini asked for a precise deadline to work in the Commission; however, we listened carefully to your speech and took note of it. I therefore suspend the sitting until 12.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.47 a.m. and resumed at 12.34 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u14	On the basis of the resolution adopted by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on 16 December 2021, communicated by the President of the Junta on 20 December 2021, it is necessary to ensure the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the foreign area, breakdown South America, the next Senator is Dr. Fabio Porta. I acknowledge the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunity of Communication and proclaim Senator Fabio Porta. I warn you that from now on it will start with regard to the new proclaimed the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u15	He asked the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on draft law No 2463. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u16	Mr President, over the last three hours we have had more than 100 votes on the amendments to the Decree-Law, but we have not been able to complete the examination of the measure. We still lack a few votes, for which we would need another two hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u17	So that means 2:30. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.35 a.m. and resumed at 12.39 p.m.) Colleagues, excuse me for putting this out of the field, but we have just heard that the Budget Committee needs another half hour and therefore requires us to resume work at 3 p.m. instead of 2.30 p.m. I'm sorry, but we just heard. I am sorry for the senators who may come in vain, but I would like to prevent them from returning to 2:30 p.m. and then postpone it for another half an hour. The sitting was suspended until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.) He asked the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on draft law No 2463. You have the right to do so. For the truth, every time Mr Parrini asks to speak at the beginning of the sitting, we are always waiting for what he will tell us.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u18	Mr President, I am sorry to have made this fame, which I must unfortunately confirm in the sense that, although this time for reasons that are not dependent on the 1st Commission, which voted 171 amendments out of 180, but because we are waiting for the Commission to dissolve the reserve on the last nine amendments, I am obliged to ask for a further postponement. After hearing Mr Pesco, who told me that he could not meet the deadline set by having an additional deadline, since the Budget Committee is currently in the vote on the list of ten names for the purpose of setting up the Council of the Parliamentary Budget Office, I would ask you for another hour and a half.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u19	Mr Parrini, I would like to ask you whether you think that this time is enough to complete the examination of the measure in the Commission, because otherwise it would be melius abundare quam deficere. I ask you this question in order to avoid having colleagues come to this House and then postpone it again, which is the most unpleasant thing. Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I think that will be enough. If you then consider setting a half hour later to resume work, I will not be offended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I take note of Senator Parrini's request, and again suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4.35 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.05 p.m. and resumed at 4.40 p.m.) I invite President Parrini to report on the state of the art.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u20	Mr President, I have been assured by President Pesco that the last two outstanding opinions will come in ten minutes, so the Commission will quickly finish its work. To be sure, I propose that the sitting be postponed until 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u21	President Parrini, without wishing in advance to restrict the debate of the individual senators (of course the Assembly is sovereign), I imagine that the knots that came to the comb have been loosed. In order to give us an order in the work, do you think that the Commission can proceed with a certain speed in the discussion of the issues not yet resolved? Mr Parrini (PD). I think so. [[Comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Of course, without taking anything away from this House, it can make a difference whether there are still issues that have not been resolved in the Commission. Therefore, trusting that this will be the last suspension, as I almost certainly will, I suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.41 p.m. and resumed at 537 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2463. The rapporteur, Senator Pagano, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u23	Mr President, Decree-Law No 172 of 26 November 2021 sets out urgent measures for the containment of the Covid-19 epidemic and for the safe conduct of economic and social activities. The measure consists of 10 articles, divided into three chapters. Under Chapter I, Article 1 provides for decree-Law No 44 of 2021, in order to amend the rules governing vaccination against Covid-19, already provided for by operators of health professions and operators of health interest who carry out their activities in health, social-health and social-assistant structures, public and private, in pharmacies or parapharmacies and in professional studies and for workers also outside, operating in any capacity in structures of hospitality and long-term care, assisted health residences, hospices, rehabilitation facilities, residential facilities for the elderly, socio-assistant structures, semi-residence facilities and facilities which, in any capacity, host persons in situations of fragility. First, it is specified that the fulfilment of the vaccination obligation includes, as from 15 December 2021, the administration of the booster dose following the primary vaccination cycle. The deadline of 31 December 2021, which has so far been in force for the obligations under consideration, is deleted. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The exemption, whether permanent or temporary, for those for whom there is a clinical contra-indication to the vaccination in question remains firm. For operators a health profession, supervision of the fulfilment of the vaccination obligation is entrusted to professional orders, by verification of the Covid-19 green certificates and is confirmed the principle of suspension from any work for the case of non-compliance. For other workers in the field of health, social-health and social-care, refer to the discipline referred to in article 2, paragraph 1, of this decree-law. Article 2 also includes amendments to Decree-Law No 44 of 2021. In particular, it provides that the vaccination obligation will be extended from 15 December 2021 to the following categories: school staff of the national education system, non-equal schools, child education services, provincial adult education centres, regional vocational education and training systems, regional systems that organise higher technical education and training courses; defence, security and public assistance personnel, local police as well as staff of the Security Information Department of the Agency and of the Internal Security and Information Agency. It is laid down that vaccination is an essential requirement for the performance of the work and that school managers and other persons responsible for the institutions in which the said staff are employed ensure compliance with and compulsory vaccination. The provisions of Article 1 of this Decree concerning subjects exempt from the vaccination obligation shall also apply. The procedure for monitoring the vaccination obligation and for any subsequent suspension of work without remuneration shall be defined for not more than six months from 15 December 2021. For the replacement of school staff who have not fulfilled the vaccination obligation, fixed-term contracts are awarded, which are resolved by law at the time when the persons replaced, having fulfilled the vaccination obligation, regain the right to carry out the work. Finally, sanctions are laid down for the conduct of work in breach of the vaccination obligations also for the lack of controls by the competent parties. Chapter II deals, on the other hand, with the use of Covid-19 green certifications. In particular, Article 3 novella Article 9 of Decree-Law No 52 of 2021 integrating with effect from 15 December last year the discipline of the green certifications Covid-19 with the forecasts regarding the administration of the booster dose after the completion of the primary vaccination cycle. In addition, it also reduces the duration of validity of the green certificate generated by the completion of a vaccination course or the single dose envisaged and specific for the same period of validity from 12 to 9 months from 15 December 2021, which also starts with the possible administration of a booster dose. Article 4 also introduces amendments to Decree-Law No 52 of 2021 with effect from 6 December 2021. Specifically, it amends article 9- bis relating to the use of green certifications Covid-19 by inserting hotels and other accommodation facilities among the activities to take advantage of which is required the possession of one of the green certifications. As a result, there are no longer any exceptions to the requirement of green certification in the white area for catering services within hotels and other accommodations reserved exclusively for guests staying there. It is also expected that green certification will be required to use the changing rooms of swimming pools, swimming pools, gyms and wellness centres in the white area, except for access to these facilities by those accompanying persons who are not self-sufficient due to age or disability. Further news relates to Article 9-c relating to the use of Covid-19 green certificates in means of transport. In particular, the exclusion from the green certification requirement for access to ships and ferries used for transport services used for maritime connections in the Strait of Messina and for maritime connections to and from the archipelago of the Tremiti islands is deleted. The green certification obligation extends to interregional passenger rail transport services. The exclusion from the green certification requirement for access to bus hire services with drivers employed in the additional regional local public transport services is removed. The green certification requirement for access to means used in local or regional public transport services is extended. It is then specified that they are excluded from the obligation of green certification on means of transport, in addition to exempt persons, also minors under the age of 12 years. Finally, it is stipulated that, for local or regional public transport, checks on the possession of green certificates may be carried out on a sample basis. Article 5 introduces further amendments to Article 9-a of Decree-Law No 52 of 2021, establishing, with effect from 29 November 2021, the principle that in the yellow and orange zones the use of services and the performance of activities and movements subject to suspension or limitation, on the basis of measures related to the epidemiological emergency, are allowed in accordance with the same conditions and procedures as for white areas and exclusively for persons possessing a green certificate generated on the basis of vaccination against or on the basis of recovery from the Covid-19, as well as for minors under the age of 12 and for persons exempt on the basis of appropriate medical certification. Catering services carried out within hotels or other accommodation facilities reserved exclusively for guests staying there, as well as canteens and catering services on a contractual basis, are excluded from the scope of the new rules. Article 6 contains transitional provisions. For the period from 6 December 2021 to 15 January 2022, it is expected that the performance of the activities and the use of services for which limitations are provided in the yellow areas will be allowed in white areas only to persons holding a green certificate of vaccination or recovery, as well as to minors under the age of 12 and to persons exempted from the vaccination campaign. Even in this case, any green certification will be sufficient only for catering services within hotels and other accommodations reserved exclusively for guests staying there and for the use of canteens and catering on a contractual basis. Under Chapter III, concerning controls and information campaigns, Article 7 requires prefects to adopt a plan to carry out checks on the possession of green certificates. This plan shall be adopted by the prefect within five days of the date of entry into force of this measure, after consulting the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security. The checks are carried out by the police forces and by the staff of the municipal police corps with the status of public security officer, in a constant manner and also as a sample. It is expected that the prefect will transmit a weekly report to the Minister of the Interior concerning the checks carried out within the territory of which he is responsible. It is also provided that these activities are carried out within the human, financial and instrumental resources available to existing legislation, without new or increased burdens for public finance. Article 8 requires the Department of Information and Publishing of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to draw up a plan to ensure the widest space on the mass media for information, training and awareness campaigns on vaccination against SARS-CoV-2. Article 9 extends to 31 December 2021 the application of the transitional rules referred to in Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 100 of 2011, concerning the obligation of radiometric surveillance of semi-finished metal products, in the more than the adoption of the interministerial decree provided for in Article 72, paragraph 3, of Legislative Decree No. 101 of 2020, which dictated the new discipline to limit the risk of exposure of people to abnormal levels of radioactivity and contamination of the environment. Finally, Article 10 provides for the entry into force of this Decree-Law. I have to say that, during the examination in the Commission, the vaccination obligation was extended, as from 15 February, to students in graduation who are engaged in internships for the qualification of the health professions under amendments 1.6 (text 2) and 1.7 (text 2). In addition, it has been specified that the health exemption from the vaccine can only be granted by your doctor of general medicine or by the vaccinated physician (amendment 1.12 (text 2)). Specifications were then introduced to remedy some practical and procedural problems that are found in the verification of the fulfilment of the vaccination obligation by health workers (amendments 1.16, 1.17 and 1.25), also as a result of the Government's choice to replace entirely the previous text of Article 4 of Decree-Law No 44 of 2021. Also in the Commission's examination, the vaccination obligation was extended to the staff of the National Cybersecurity Agency (amendment 2.9). Arrangements have also been made for the verification of the fulfilment of the obligation by school managers and equivalent figures (amendment 2.18). It was also specified that the temporary replacement of non-vaccined personnel applies not only to teachers, but also to educational staff and ATA (amendment 2.46). Amendment 2.0.4 (text 3), approved by the Commission, provided for civil servants - and this is one vote taken just a few minutes ago - to be absent from work for the administration of the vaccine. During the examination in the Commission, the obligation to hold the green pass was expressly extended to the owners of the catering and administration services (amendment 4.28). Finally, amendment 9.3 (text 3) approved by the Commission differs from 31 March 2022. As usual, a safeguard clause has been introduced by the Commission for the Special Statute Regions and the Autonomous Provinces: amendment 9.0.1 was proposed by colleagues from linguistic minorities. I conclude by recalling that, during the examination, several agendas were accepted by the Government with the commitment to address other important issues in a short time. Among them, I mention, above all - and here I would like to stress this, I hope with a minimum of attention from my fellow Members - the agenda for G/2463/22/1, which the Commission has unanimously voted on, on the subject which is no longer possible - and here I also address President Parrini, who has presided very well at the Commission, also in order to meet this historic requirement which Parliament must apply - the extension of compensation for permanent damage by compulsory vaccination, even for that large part of the population for which there is no obligation, but only a recommendation. As is well known, compensation is automatic when there is an obligation, but the Constitutional Court's judgments have taken place: in fact, it is provided for all vaccines required by Law No 210 of 1992, but several judgments of the Constitutional Court, as I was referring to, have extended it to various cases of vaccination which instead was only recommended and not obligatory. There is therefore no doubt that the Constitution requires it to apply to these vaccines as well; if the legislator does not do so, the Constitutional Court will consider it. If this does not happen in the context of a new and imminent emergency measure, as the Government has been engaged - I address all the majority leaders who have participated in this type of in-depth consultation with the Government - Parliament will provide it in the context of the conversion of Decree-Laws No 221 and No 229 of 2021, which in the meantime have been assigned to the Senate, in particular to the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with rapporteurs Senator Valente and President Parrini, who have always been presented and embodied in the 1st Commission. I conclude by recalling that this decree has been exceeded by other decrees made necessary because of the diffusion of the Omicron variant, which unfortunately has become devastating on the national territory. The Government therefore considered it necessary to adopt further decrees and extend the national emergency period at least until 31 March of this year. However, we must recognise the validity of the measure. I say this with a little satisfaction, but also with sweat, given the work I have had to do together with all my colleagues in the Commission. From the President of the Commission to all its members, we have worked with great commitment and passion. I am therefore honored to be the rapporteur for this measure in a Commission which has really demonstrated great maturity and institutional culture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u24	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u25	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to convert Decree-Law No 176 of 26 November 2021 into law, which will be followed in the next few days by the conversion of the other two. The aim is to intervene with urgent measures for the containment of the epidemic by Covid-19 for the safe conduct of economic and social activities. The explanatory report to the decree reads as follows: This decree aims to continue the strategy of countering the spread of the outbreak by Covid-19 on national territory, based on the assumption that vaccination is an indispensable weapon in the fight against the pandemic, configuring itself as an indispensable opportunity for individual and collective protection. Clearly I leave to you the assessment of the purpose that the decree-law aims and whether the objective set has been achieved to date. In the Commission, amendments were adopted and others rejected, which would certainly have had an improvement and a strengthening aim. In particular, taking into account the premise, I was very surprised to hear the statement of a colleague of the majority who, a year ago, in view of my consideration of the danger of DIY swabs sold by you at the pharmacy, made a sardonic smile. After a year we see very well what the situation is. If we believe that the vaccine is the only weapon (he who speaks has already been subjected to it and, therefore, speaks with much freedom), then I ask myself about the choice made so far by the Government, that is to allow the sale of the tampons DIY at the pharmacy, of which we have traceability of the purchase, but not of the outcome. The question is whether this has contributed, compared to all the other dynamics, to preventing the achievement of the objective indicated in the illustrative report and in premise. We are faced with an absurd situation, which is the one foreseen by the other decrees on which we will then work, so it is indicated as a test for the assessment of positivity that rapid antigenic one, while first we have always indicated that the rapid test should be validated, in the case of positivity, by a molecular test. It is before everyone's eyes, moreover, how rapid tests can represent false positivity, like false negativity. From this point of view in the Commission, for example, an amendment has not passed, which was reworded by the majority, which provided for the exclusion of molecular swabs in the new text. Another parenthesis: the high cost of these swabs is in everyone's eyes; some people denounce speculation, which in some cases exceeds 150 euros per performance. This is proof of the fact that they are interventions that do not have their homogeneity and logic and, among other things, contrast each other. With regard to one fact, which also followed the filing of petitions by some members and committees of the island people, I was a necessity, including an amendment by Senator Angrisani, who was so kind as to accept my signature. Some Senators of the Brothers of Italy have also tabled - I am referring to Malan and La Pietra - an amendment for the smaller islands. What is happening? In imposing this super green pass for all means of transport, therefore also ferries, we basically discriminate in discrimination: that is, those who choose not to undergo a vaccine, but in the near future, therefore every three days, must be subjected to a rapid buffer to access the means of transport, in the case of the islands is even more penalized. In fact, if we talk about trains or planes, those who decide not to vaccinate can move freely throughout the national territory, but those who make such a choice and live in the territories of the islands is further penalized, because with their own means will not have the possibility to cross, in the case of Sicily the Strait, in the case of the Tremiti islands or other smaller islands clearly the sea that separates them from the mainland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u27	Mr President, I had prepared a speech yesterday to highlight and list all the lies, the clamorous and dangerous lies, that this Government had ringed on the green pass, first of all the lie that the green pass and the super green pass were meant to create workplaces and covid-free environments, where people would be free to work and interact without risking to get infected. It dances very dangerous, because it has induced so many Italians to consider themselves immune only to have a certificate and that has brought to the stars the contagions, as it is before the eyes of all. It was this move of extreme bureaucracy, lies and falsehood that led the infections to the levels we have today. Well, despite the evidence and the need to stigmatize what happened, I will not make this speech, because all these things are now evident to everyone: even those who have two or three doses get infected and can infect. It is much less obvious - and therefore deserves my intervention today - what has happened in the Commission. Well, in the Commission, with a superficiality which, to say the least - let us just say this - with the importance and gravity of a measure which has such a heavy impact on the daily life, work and health of all Italians, with an incredible amount of soapiness and care, amendments have been rejected which even important parts of this majority had tabled. I could stay here all night, but I only list those who I think are the most striking. The Movimento 5 Stars had meritoriously tabled an amendment in which it highlighted when it should have ended everything: the vaccination obligation, all sanctions related to green passes and super green passes, all limitations of rights, and had indicated the date of March 31, 2022, termination of the state of emergency, in all parts where the decree-law provided for these exceptions to constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. Well, even though this was a measure of common sense - that is, the indication of a term - the Government has expressed an opposite opinion and the Movimento 5 Stars, of course, has pulled down its ears and transformed the amendment into an agenda which, as you know, is a mere wish for the future. So, this was put in the drawer, which means... [[Comments]] I see you're angry, partner, but that may mean that the state of emergency that has been extended...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u28	Senator Crucioli, speak to the Presidency and colleagues avoid commenting out of the microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u29	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). I was saying, a state of emergency that - I remember - has already been extended six times, well beyond the two years planned and, however, it did not go well for the Government to put an end to all this. There is also some for the League and the PD, for example: both have tabled amendments aimed at providing compensation in case of vaccination damage. These were common sense amendments, which deservedly had been tabled. Well, even in this case the Government has said no, contrary opinion, inviting them to turn them into agendas, and also League and PD, who forget to be their majority in this Senate, then to be their legislators, have bowed to the government's diktat and have turned the proposals into agendas, so maybe and if, when the government wants to. Still, the Movimento 5 Stars and even Italy Viva argued that it was not possible to predict the super green pass for the kids who go to school because if they can't take the bus, so they are prevented from going by bus, it is as if they were prevented from going to school, making the right to study fail. It was right, and in fact they have tabled amendments to that effect, but in this case too the Government has said no, without explanation. No: the boy, the 13-year-old who is not vaccinated, is not cured and does not have the super green pass, even if he has to take the bus to go to school, he cannot do it, thus creating further discrimination between those boys who can be accompanied by parents and those who instead can not because maybe the parents work or because they do not have a passage or the money to pay for a taxi. But no, it is impossible for them to go to school by means of transport. Also in this case, Movimento 5 Stars and Italy Viva, who had meritoriously proposed amendments in this sense, lower their ears and say: I obey. They turn them into agendas as if there was time to wait for the government to decide, while the kids, as well as the workers and all the others, already suffer these deleterious consequences today. Then there was our amendment, first signed by my colleague Angrisani and myself, which provided for the restoration of territorial continuity with the islands, which today has been interrupted because those who do not have the super green pass, even if they are entitled not to vaccinate because they may be under the age of fifty, so, since there is no legal obligation, they made a legitimate choice, they cannot take the ferry; they must be confined to the islands. We have implemented this amendment to say that it is not fair, it is discrimination because those who live in Sardinia or Sicily and cannot come to the Continent and vice versa. Yet, even in this case an unmotivated no: Sardinians and Sicilians must necessarily be vaccinated or healed or cannot move from the islands. Again, another meritorious amendment, by Senator Malan, demanded that the Higher Institute of Health and Istat give the mortality data of the past year, 2020, and 2021, so as to be able to compare the overall mortality, to see if, by comparing the two years of pandemics, there were more deaths for any kind, to verify what this greater number is given and whether there could be vaccine consequences. This is to give an answer to the many illations, which at the moment are not based on real statistical data, but which circulate and which create a lot of apprehension. Illations about the fact that, in this year of push vaccination, there were more deaths than last year. Well, even in this case the answer was that no, there must be no clarity, there must be no data that can alert, that it is better not to know and that this data should not be provided. Amendment rejected. Mr President, in the face of this, you have a responsibility. You're killing the country. You're not doing a transparency operation. You are not saying things as they are and you are ghettoizing a part of the population who, I repeat, has no legal obligations in the state. What is the consequence? Let me give you some concrete examples. Only today, a desperate mother called me saying that, in the primary school of my city, the boys were called one by one by the principal, who asked them whether they were vaccinated or not. Those who are not vaccinated have been told: take your things, call home and have them pick you up. This is because, since there have been two cases of positivity, the norm has taken place that all non-vacciners cannot be present. These kids were crying, because they didn't know what had happened, and they were driven away right now, without their parents being warned. I'll say more. Another mother called me, always in tears, telling her daughter, suffering from autoimmune syndrome, the doctors advised not to vaccinate. No one, however, took the responsibility of exempting it; no one exempted it, but no one wrote that he could make the vaccine. It is in limbo and, like her, there are many other people, not by choice, that would still be acceptable, but for real health situations. Again, another lady represented me as having multiple sclerosis, having done the first two doses, having been sick and now being afraid. She's been sick, but she's not exempted. All these people you're treating them not as people, but as B-class people, as beasts. Do not carefully evaluate what you are doing, with your superficiality, is of a gravity that will turn against you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u30	Mr President, I have prepared a somewhat articulate speech. I realize, however, that the debate we have conducted in the Commission has taken time. Therefore, asking for permission to deliver the written text of my speech, I merely recall that such measures are always carried out, designed and implemented by this Government with the primary objective of safeguarding the health of all citizens. [[Applause]] Not only that, the objective is to safeguard commercial activities, with the prevention of lockdowns that we have already witnessed and that we know what they mean and, above all, to prevent distance learning. Let us bear in mind that we are on the right track because, by comparing the data on hospitalizations, intensive care and deaths compared to the millions of infections that we are still recording today, we have seen that they are significantly lower than last year's numbers. The data is clear. We are convinced that we are in the right direction and we thank the Government for moving forward in this direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u31	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech, as you requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u32	Senator Garnero Santanché is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a measure that has in itself been exceeded, because the Government has decided to give a gift to the Italians. In fact, we had the Christmas decree, then the New Year's decree and then the Epiphany decree. This is to say, in short, that wrong is human, but persevering is diabolical. The government continues in its contradictions and I give you some examples, because I believe that it should be clear to the Italians the direction that is being taken. The first contradiction concerns the fact that the government has focused everything exclusively on vaccines. I would like to point out that I myself have taken the third dose and in the Brothers of Italy Group we are all convinced that the vaccine is a useful and necessary tool. However, we believe that it cannot and should not be the only instrument. [[Applause]] And I'm not saying that. I remember President Draghi when, in the press conference of 22 July, introducing the obligation of the green pass, he said that it delivered to the Italians safe places where it was not possible to get infected. I do not have to remind the House of the number of cases of infection and the number of deaths. The government therefore contradicts itself. Seeing every night the war bulletin in which the numbers of tampons, contagions and deaths are reported contradicts the government's policies on the vaccine. To see that we have reached almost 250,000 contagions and that the dead unfortunately - we speak not of numbers, but of people - are about 300 per day, does not calm the Italians. A government that's focused on the vaccine and green pass shouldn't contradict itself. The other contradiction that I would like to make very clear is the lack of sense of informed consent. I believe that the latter, applied to a health treatment imposed, for all people of common sense and not ideological, is absolutely unreasonable. All those who went to vaccination had in front of them the form bearing the words "I agree and authorize the administration of the vaccine". This is the formula found at the bottom of the form when you go to make the vaccine. However, it is clear that this is an informed consent present in the forms that also gives the possibility to refuse the administration of the vaccine. The theme, which has already emerged and which Brothers of Italy have noted for a long time clearly, is that today the subject of informed consent for the new measures adopted by the Government is more strongly imposed. I am referring here to the application of the vaccination obligation in the measure we are examining for certain categories and, in the Epiphany measure, for all over fifty. Therefore, the question that the Assembly and the representatives of the Government should ask themselves and that all non-ideological people, but of common sense, are asked is whether it is legitimate, even today, to ask for the consent of those legally obliged to make the vaccine. In our opinion, it is not, because informed consent, even according to a recent decision of the Constitutional Court, is envisaged in order to guarantee the freedom of all citizens, thus respecting the second paragraph of Article 32 of our Constitution. What interests us most is that this not only does not concern respect for freedoms, but also has an effect on the imputation of responsibilities and that is what the Brothers of Italy Group has always asked for. If the government - I do not go into the matter if it has done well or has done wrong - has decided for the obligatory vaccine, precisely to be transparent and to convey confidence to the citizens, it should take all the responsibility, and not only for the compensation to those citizens - I hope very few - that they should have adverse reactions to the vaccine, but also for compensation damages. In fact, I remember - for example - that if informed consent is incomplete and perhaps - it is not said so - based on incorrect scientific assumptions, there is also the possibility of compensation for damages. Therefore, the government should note that the scenario has completely changed since the vaccine became mandatory. There is therefore a vaccination obligation and in this case mandatory consent of the person concerned: for this reason we say that there is a contradiction in terms. The government not only has to put an immediate hand to informed consent, but must put the funds - which we have not found - to pay those very few - we hope - adverse reactions to the vaccine. I also say to you that there is no green passes, which - as the data show - have had no effect on the infection. I remember that, just before the Christmas holidays, the government filled its mouth, saying that it was the best of all European governments, that in Europe there were so many cases and that Italy was absolutely a model. Colleagues, today you are denied and perhaps someone should also reflect on what has been said about British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. You all criticized him, saying it was a disaster. But if we look at Britain's figures today and, above all, the number of deaths, perhaps our government, which has taken this direction, should ask itself a few questions. Then there is one more element: if we are all convinced that the vaccine is useful and we still have to convince the many over fifty that they are not vaccinated, what better than to say that the government assumes responsibility and therefore, if there are adverse reactions, the government has made funds available to pay compensation? Once again the Brothers of Italy Group makes its request on this point, which is crucial to convince those Italians that they have not yet convinced themselves, also for the succession of decree-laws and for the communication that is made, also by science, that critics. We heard the WHO representative who said that we certainly cannot imagine moving forward with the boosters every three or four months. Colleagues, take note of this: the responsibilities must be clearly shown to the citizens and there is no better way to convince the Italians to vaccinate than what the Brothers of Italy has always proposed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u35	Mr President, yesterday the number of deaths in our country exceeded that in all other European countries. I think it is clear that the super green pass and now the vaccination obligation, which were introduced, among other things, when the percentage of vaccinated population over the age of 12 was already close to 90%, are not tools to counter the spread of the epidemic. I believe that everyone knows that in the rest of Europe the general vaccination obligation has only been introduced in Austria and Greece. I continue to ask why early therapies have not been used immediately, successfully tested by volunteer doctors since the beginning of the pandemic. We should have introduced the use of FFP2 for anyone, since it seems to protect 98 percent of the wearer. We should have used the monoclonals intensively, which we refused in October 2020 when we were offered 2,000 free doses, and then bought them a few months later. I also believe that the super green pass introduces unacceptable restrictions. I am referring in particular to the movement of non-victims on public transport and many other activities for which FFP2 would have been sufficient. We have introduced discrimination in the country and even a hunt for those who are not vaccinated, which unfortunately involves also the children, whose contagion has very small percentages, as if all the contagions that are occurring are the responsibility of a small minority. I would like to reiterate that I am not a no vax, but I believe that the freedom of vaccination or not should be guaranteed, especially since the chief executive officer (CEO) of Pfizer said clearly that against the variant omicron two doses are ineffective, if there is efficacy, and that with the third dose you get an acceptable degree of protection, less effective against the transmission of the virus. Did you want the CEO of the company who made billions with the vaccine to say the third dose doesn't give protection? The same CEO immediately announced that the vaccine against the omicron variant will be ready in March, when we will already be at a time when the contagions, as in previous years, will decrease and maybe, for when they resume in autumn, almost certainly other variants will have developed. For those who produce vaccines this is a wedding invitation, such as the prospect of vaccinating the entire population every four or five months, without taking into account that autoimmune diseases can develop and that after more vaccinations the immune defenses could be destroyed. That the protection of the vaccine is scarce is said by the continuously growing contagions and statements of eminent scientists. The evidence is that even the vaccinated take the Covid, go to the ICU and die. After two years we still have incomplete data that do not allow a detailed analysis of the situation, the factors that triggered it and continue to feed it. Even this morning in the newspapers there are those who point out that the data between European countries are not comparable, because they are not taken in a homogeneous way. On the social front, unfortunately, we are re-activating conflicts that have not occurred in years and that I believe are extremely important not to feed. The right to a decision whether or not to take any substance is guaranteed by the Constitution and European legislation and is made clear by the fact that, in order to be vaccinated, a waiver signed by the vaccine is still required. This is despite the fact that the vaccine is not harmless, it has generated adverse reactions, some of which are also lethal. It is known that it is still an experimental vaccine whose long-term effects, if they occur, will obviously be discharged on future generations. I believe that the path to follow would have been that traced by the minister Pisano and recently reiterated by Beppe Grillo: it would have been necessary to work on tracing and isolation of the infected. Several political forces opposed this solution in every way on the media. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u37	Mr President, the vaccination obligation introduced by this decree-law has no scientific or legal basis at all. And you know that very well. It does not have a scientific foundation, because no one is able to demonstrate the public interest behind this preventive therapy; it is not able to prove it, simply because we before 2024 will not have the risk-benefit reports. It cannot be scientifically proven, but it can be proved empirically the opposite, seen and considered that this preventive therapeutic garrison is also experimental, precisely because the risk-benefit reports will not be available before 2024. It can actually be shown that this therapeutic garrison lets the contagions circulate and therefore does not immunize. Therefore, it is in no way capable of guaranteeing any safety, either on the workplace, on the means of transport, or on all the places from which non-vacciners are excluded. Therefore, the Government artificially created legal discrimination which has no basis and which is prohibited by our Constitution, Article 3. This decree-law, therefore, infringes an innumerable series of articles of the Constitution, starting from article 32, last paragraph, which provides that the law must not exceed the limits imposed by respect for the human person; and here of respect for the human person there is no trace of it; second, the principle of inviolability of the human person, article 2 and, article 3, also the principle of equal opportunity, which - as Senator Crucioli pointed out in his intervention - is violated within the schools with the forty-year-old differentiated, introducing by law an unjustified discrimination - there is no rag of scientific study that can support it - between vaccinated students and not vaccinated; introducing discrimination on the front of the possibility of access to mobility, i.e. the use of public transport and the movement from the islands. Although there has been a derogation through an order published on 9 January, which provides for the possibility until 10 February of still using the means of transport for the islands with the normal green pass and the use of the masks FFP2 (the same thing for means of transport and students), after that, however, the introduction of this absurd discrimination, which means that some citizens are worth, from the point of view of rights, less of animals - the animals have the right to move, while the citizens who are not vaccinated do not have it - and goods. We are at the total debasement of the human person. The vaccination obligation for certain categories, with the suspension from work, obviously infringes Article 1, which provides for the right to work, which is the right on which the Constitution is based. The Constitution in Article 1 provides for this right, as work discriminates between a free person and a non-free person. Those who are free can democratically exercise their civic function, while those who are not. So you have taken away from those citizens their civil, political and even human rights. And then, who are the most fierce in the field of discrimination and such measures? They are precisely those who pretend to defend civil rights, migrants, LGBTQs and gender equality: precisely those people are the most fierce in the discrimination of human beings who have no reason to be discriminated against. There are entire professional categories that, after serving the State, have been humiliated by this provision. You should all be ashamed, because these measures... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, there's no one here to be ashamed of. Everyone expresses their opinion. You are now expressing it, and then it will be the turn of the others. There is no one to be ashamed of, Senator. GRANATO (Mixed). Bring in respect to the views of the opposition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is And you have respect for the opinions of your other colleagues. I'm just telling you, there's no one here to be ashamed of. You can express your views as well as others are expressing them. GRANATO (Mixed). I was saying you have to be ashamed of those who... president. It's not a squabble. I'll call her back and she'll answer. Go on. GRANATO (Mixed). Now you give me back the time you took from me, thank you. [[Comments.]] First of all, there are 11 million Italians who voted for a political force that was supposed to be the bulwark of the Constitution. But this political force has stood beside these measures, in support of them, to oppress, devastate and eliminate the human rights of Italian citizens who have simply made the thoughtful choice not to vaccinate, not to use experimental products on their own bodies, which they have full right to: the Nuremberg Code, the Oviedo Convention, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, say so. We, as well as Italian citizens, are also European citizens and Europe must enforce our prerogatives. Europe cannot simply be a container that practically produces treaties of an economic nature. Europe is a container of human beings, of people who have rights that must be respected. The non-Vaccinated do not cause any harm to the vaccinated, and you all know that. Hospitalizations and intensive therapies are full of each other, except then to define not vaccinated vaccinees with two doses: clearly now you have put them in the cauldron of the non-Vaccinated to unbalance and justify your absurd measures. There are people who are sick in the islands and have been confined to their territories, unable to accompany their children to resort to treatments they need, or to be able to treat themselves in turn. You blackmailed the doctors, because you practically forced them, through a series of restrictions and professional orders, not to exempt anyone from these therapies. You have created conditions around them for which they feel blackmailed. You are creating a disaster within the country, which has never been seen before, from the social, economic and health point of view, because however the number of contagions continues to rise in any case and everything you had to avoid, under the pretext of protecting the public interest, you are practically increasing it and keeping it standing. You are also holding up a state of emergency that has been going on for two years and you have also allowed yourself the luxury, out of all limits and constitutional stake, to extend it even until 31 March. We have really come to overcome everything that could not and should not be overcome, in the most absurd and inadmissible way. I really don't have anything else to add. [[Applause]] , except that sooner or later these crimes will be avenged. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u38	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u39	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a very detailed speech, the text of which I may turn over. I feel the need to intervene after the last speech to say three very simple things. Firstly, it is true that vaccines do not reach 100% of the effectiveness, but it is also true that we have nothing more effective than vaccines at the moment. [[Applause]] We must therefore make a very simple argument. Secondly, it is true that the decree we are about to convert is that of November and then those of 24 and 31 December and 7 January will come. We record in the government a - let's call it - flexibility to accompany events that we can consider the fruit of a lack of availability of the bubble within which we try to discover the mystery of things, or that prudence and flexibility through which we govern with attention to the facts and the things that happen. Therefore, we simply need to have that cooperative attitude of those who know that they are taking measures that are effective today and that could be less effective tomorrow and require clarification and adjustment. As everyone who deals with medicine knows, we are dealing with probabilistic phenomena and not deterministic matter. This can happen, but this could happen too. We try, from time to time, to intercept what is best for the country. I move on to the third and last thing I want to say in this climate. I think it is a due act on our part to offer the best of what we have, knowing that we are doing what is possible. Some people ask, and they probably expect us to do the impossible. Medicine does not do the impossible, but it proceeds continuously and constantly, for trials and errors, to always improve what it offers. The only thing I am asking for and which I think is important - and we have said so many times in our Commission - is that, from the point of view of reflection on health, the work of the Commission also has that attention and that ability to intercept the problems of the country, acting as a bridge between the rules in a strict sense and the biological phenomenon that requires a different approach also on the communicative level. We are proposing an excessively pressing level of communication. We are facing a sort of informational obesity that does not allow us to make clear, lucid and concrete decisions not so much to those who study these phenomena and problems, but probably to those who simply collect the echo through the press and the news. Today people need to feel more reassured starting - for example - from a very simple concept: a positive buffer is not enough to say that that person is sick. These are two completely different concepts: the diagnosis of disease is clinical and takes into consideration the person in the complexity of his discomfort and suffering; the positive buffer is an alert, an alarm, and a signal of prudence. If we could pass on positive signals to people of what is happening, we would avoid that apocalypse which the colleague who intervened first demonstrated, according to which disaster really seems to be around the corner. That is not the case, even though the solution is not yet as close as we all would like. However, we are going in a direction that seeks to intercept the health needs of people and certainly not to harm their quality of life or life itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u41	Mr President, I too, like other Members, would like to give the written text of the detailed speech I have prepared to make some comments on a matter of summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u42	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u43	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stress a few fundamental points: first of all, I think it is necessary to reiterate - as our President Conte and all the 5 Star Movement have done - that the main road to follow in this difficult pandemic is that of science. It is important to follow science, because it gives input to move forward. That is why I would like to stress the fundamental importance of vaccination as a measure to combat the virus together - let us not forget - with the individual and collective protection measures adopted. The current pandemic data are before everyone's eyes and are objective. There is no interpretation to be given: they are objective data. Another point I would like to stress, Mr President, is the need for greater sharing by all political forces of the measures taken, for a more constant and continuous confrontation with the regions and, finally, for greater clarity and comprehensibility in communicating the measures taken. We need clear signals, without any wavering developments, which can instill confidence and security in our citizens. Critical observations must also be constructive and not misleading, for those who already live internal conflicts and dramas and in the social context. Let us never forget that the pandemic wins all together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u44	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u45	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u46	Mr President, my reply will be brief. More than anything else, I will not be here discussing the opinions which are clearly contrary to this decree-law and the amendments that we have approved in the Commission and which will shortly be put to the vote here in this House. I simply want to state one principle: with the decree-law under consideration, the Government and the senators in the first Commission, when discussing and voting on the amendments tabled, tried to make a contribution so that the dissemination of the Covid-19 could at least be contained in the best possible way. Certainly the idea that green certificates can play an extraordinary role, especially in order to stimulate people to conclude the vaccination cycle or to immunize themselves directly, it seems obvious to me: it is a choice that this Government has adopted, that the majority has shared and that we must recognize - as the undersecretary Sileri has repeatedly emphasized - has been taken into consideration by other countries after ours, precisely for the effectiveness that the adoption of measures of the kind has then had in terms of relapse on the national level. It is known to all that a vaccine cannot completely solve the problems, it does not create a total shield from the possibility of contracting the virus; but it is true that, once a barrier and a protection has been created, the damage that can result to the health of the citizen is less and, therefore, the impact on the national health system is also very reduced; just compare the data of last year with those of this year. With this decree-law they have laid the foundations also for meeting other demands. It is true that the amendment has not been adopted, but it is likely that a very significant agenda will be adopted on the issue of compensation, not only resulting - as I have already mentioned - from the compulsory nature of the vaccine, but also from its recommendation. In this sense, I must acknowledge that in the Commission there has been a total sharing - from LEU to the League, the PD, from Forza Italia to the Movimento 5 Stars and also to Brothers of Italy - towards the possibility of arriving at a solution to ensure that Italian citizens feel protected by our country and can therefore be taken into account. In my introductory report, I pointed out that the issue of compensation was taken into account at a time when the Constitutional Court was not suspicious a few years ago, even when the Court was presided over by the current Minister of Justice, Mr Cartabia. On that occasion, the Court ruled that, even in cases where there was no vaccination obligation, there was the possibility of granting a refreshment, compensation, to those who had suffered a damage to health due to the administration of a vaccine. The foundations have also been laid for other measures that have certainly improved the installation of a government product. Of course, the subject is what, in the pandemic period, the role of Parliament seems to be weakened: it operates only and exclusively with decree-laws and, therefore, with emergency measures. In fact, the bicameral constitutional system seems to have become almost monocameral, but in reality the House that is entrusted with the task of dealing with, examining and possibly improving the measures of the Government does so. In this case, the Senate did. I therefore believe that it is absolutely useful to be aware that Parliament's role is not weakened, but is only aware of the pathological historical moment that the country is experiencing. And I believe that responsibly all the political formations that have participated in the discussion of this measure in the Commission, as well as the representatives of the Government - the undersecretaries Sileri and Bergamini - have shown attachment to the colors of this country and above all to the absolute feeling and need to give an answer in order to make it start again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u47	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Colleagues, we are waiting for the texts adopted by the 1st Commission and, also in order to give sufficient time for the submission of any sub-amendments, I suspend the sitting in order to proceed with sanitisation. We'll catch up at 8:00. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 18.53 and resumed at 20.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u50	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, taking only one minute. I would like to draw the attention of this House and of all the senators for a few words that have just been said in general debate by Senator Granato. These words are, in my opinion, very serious. We know that the House is, by the way, the Chamber of confrontation; for goodness' sake, we can have different ideas - and we also have them on vaccines - but to compare vaccines, the green pass and the state of emergency with crimes against Italian citizens seems to me frankly too much. It seems to me even more than too much, if we continue, and I really ask the attention of this House, because I quote from the shorthand report the intervention of the senator: "These crimes will be avenged." When words such as revenge are used, threats and violence are spoken of. We are not surprised then if we start to make false statements in favour of doctors and nurses who risk every day violence and threats of no vax. If these words are also spoken by a representative of the Italians and the institutions in this House, such as Senator Granato, I think the whole House should be outraged. [[Applause]] The expression "these crimes" will be avenged" cannot be heard. [[Applause]] I therefore ask the President to convene a Presidency Council soon to take action on the very serious words of threat and violence uttered by Senator Garnet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u51	Senator Ronzulli, the Presidency had already reserved the opportunity to read the shorthand and we have noted the same words that you have reported today. Therefore, the Presidency, which had already recalled in the course of its speech Senator Granato, after hearing the President of the Senate, commands censorship, pursuant to Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u52	Colleagues, as has already been said, we do not yet have the list of amendments, because the Commission has failed to fulfil its obligations, so I am suspending the sitting until at least 8.30 p.m. (we are still giving 15 minutes). The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m. and resumed at 8.35 p.m.) The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the contact person, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, amendments 5.0.1, 5.0.3, 9.0.2, 9.0.3 and 9.0.4. cannot be proposed because of the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law. Amendments 5.6, 5.9 and 5.10. The agendas of the G9.3 and G9.4 and G9.5 and G9.6 are also unacceptable and the agendas of the G9.1 and G9.2 are inadmissible. Amendment 5.0.6 (text 2) (already 7.0.0.1) is available provided it relates to Article 4. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. The amendments and agendas referred to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Decree-Law are set out. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u53	Mr President, I would like to focus on Amendment 5.0.7 and I am speaking because I imagine that we will not be able to move forward, so I am not wasting my time. It is an amendment calling for the establishment of a fund to compensate for adverse events caused by anti-Covid vaccination. I know that an agenda has been adopted in the Commission, signed by the majority. We are of the opinion that we must not ask the government to approve a rule; since we are here and there is an amendment (and there were also a majority), this would be the place to approve the rule and not to ask the government to do it later, if there is money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u54	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u55	The amendments relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law are set out. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u56	In the same previous spirit, with the intention of establishing the conditions for moving forward, Article 7 provides that the prefects shall draw up a report on the activity carried out for the control of green passes by all the Forces of the Order, in coordination with the local police, and so on. Now, because the control of green passes is not the only problem in our country, if this is to be done, with our amendments we propose several measures: while the report is omitted, because if there is a minimum of confidence in the prefects, perhaps it is better to let them work rather than make them produce cards with great use of the copy and paste from one side to the other. At least it could be expected that, instead of weekly, the report is monthly, to have a little less bureaucracy since, apparently, the only problem of public order in our country is the lack of green passes. But the proposal we are most concerned with is that the report not only concerns the control of green passes, but also the whole of the activities carried out to protect citizens and to respect the laws, highlighting in this area the extent of the controls referred to in the previous period, namely the famous control of green passes. If you run after all green passes, but drug dealing continues to be a free market, commercial abuse is on all roads, including those of the Capital, a few steps away from the palaces of the institutions, the rave parties continue to hold themselves with such laxity that they also come from abroad to celebrate these orgies of drugs and not only, with rapes and sometimes even murders, well it would be appropriate to keep that in mind too, because the green pass should not be the only problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u57	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u58	The amendments and agendas referred to Articles 8 and 9 of the Decree-Law are set out. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u59	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.3, 1.8 and 1.9. The opinion was in favour of amendment 1.6 (text 2). I am against Amendments 1.10 and 1.11. I am in favour of amendment 1.12 (text 2), while the opinion is against amendment 1.14. The opinion was in favour of amendments 1.16, 1.17 and 1.18. I am against Amendments 1.20, 1.22, 1.23 and 1.24. The opinion is in favour of amendment 1.25, while it is against amendments 1.26, 1.27 and 1.28. I am in favour of amendment 1.29. On the agenda, the opinion was opposed to the agenda for Mr G1.1, while it was in favour of the agenda for Mr G1.100 and Mr G1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u61	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Granato, identical to Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.4 and 1.5 have been withdrawn and transformed into agendas G1,100 and G1.5. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Angrisani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.12 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.13 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.15 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.16, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.17, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.18 is absorbed. Amendment 1.19 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Angrisani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.21 has been withdrawn. Having been requested to do so, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, up to the words'maternity', on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.23 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.24.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u64	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, Amendment 1.24 and a number of other subsequent amendments call for the measures dictated by the emergency to be equated, so much so that they are explicitly justified as such in the premises, and are part of a decree-law which, by definition, must be of extraordinary necessity and urgency. We do not understand why these and other rules introduced by the provision often last until 15 June, when at the time of the enactment of the decree-law the state of emergency ended long before and now ends anyway on 31 March. Evidently there is a tendency to end emergency never. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u65	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.25, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.29, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u68	PAGENO, rapporteur. Mr President, I have to correct a mistake in the opinion that has just been expressed. On the G1.5 agenda, already amendment 1.5, the Commission's opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u71	RICCIARDI (M5S). Mr President, I shall withdraw the agenda for Mr G1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u72	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u75	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on the agenda G1100, which was approved by the Commission, which was first signed by me following the withdrawal of amendment 1.4, again by the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, at my first signature, I would ask you, as has already been the case in the Commission, to put the agenda to the vote, in order to give greater strength to the message contained in it. The agenda under discussion is a commitment that is being asked of the Government, which has allowed it to be given and therefore the vote is an act that gives more force to the Commission itself in carrying out its commitment, relating to compensation for any damage caused by recommended vaccinations. We know that compulsory vaccines provide compensation in the event of damage. With the recent measures imposed by the Government has extended the audience of persons subject to vaccination obligation, which is close to 30 million - I do not have an exact figure - including all over fifty and all persons engaged in the health system, law enforcement and education, who are covered by the law providing compensation. At the moment, people who do not have an obligation are still excluded, but have a strong recommendation to vaccination. It is a battle that as a Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione we have carried on since the beginning of the vaccination campaign. We have tabled this amendment over and over again, which unfortunately has never been successful. This time, also by virtue of a decision of the Constitutional Court, the rest of the parliamentary groups joined our initiative and, as you have seen, wrote through their Leader the signature on this agenda, resulting from amendment 1.4. It is fair to say that there were also other amendments by the other majority and opposition forces, as Mr Malan said. So there was a strong convergence. There were therefore all the conditions for approving the amendment already in the measure under consideration. Unfortunately, again, due to a lack of some technicians from the Ministry of Economics and Finance or Accounting - we have not yet quite understood it - it has not been possible to improve the coverage in good time. So let's refer to the next useful measure, which the Government will take next week: on this there is a clear commitment from the Government at the highest level. We therefore believe that the agenda is a very good success, because the issue will be resolved next week, even before the possible conversion of the decree-law in question, which could take place in the House of Deputies in seven days' time. It is therefore the shortest route, which allows us to solve a problem, which is attended by so many citizens. So the government's commitment is clear. The hope is that it will be confirmed and that justice will be done for those who are damaged by a vaccine, which has been strongly suggested and recommended by the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u78	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I speak only for the sake of truth and intellectual honesty due to this House and to take account of the work of the entire Commission. I have nothing against the proposal made by Senator Augussori to put the agenda to the vote, but I would like to remind everyone, in order to give justice to the work carried out, that that agenda is the result of several amendments, which essentially posed the issue of compensation. [[Comments.]] Yes, Luigi, I add. Several amendments tabled on the same point were withdrawn and together we shared a path that led to the drawing up of this agenda. The common basic principle is that we believe it is useful, appropriate and indispensable to affirm today, even in the light of a clear choice by the Government to go basically not only towards genuine, serious and structured support for the vaccination campaign, but also towards the vaccination obligation for certain categories, the principle of compensation for all those who choose to get to the vaccine. We also believe that it is important for the Government to make this basic commitment in the face of a very broad sharing of Parliament's clear will.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u81	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I too am speaking on the Commission's agenda G1,100 to say something simple. It is said that an agenda is not denied to anyone, but there are agendas which, on the other hand, have a much greater value than that, and this is one of the few agendas that must be listened to and implemented in particular. The device does not say: "to evaluate" but tells the government to guarantee within a certain limited time. There is an agreement of all political forces on these contents; there is a written commitment of the Government. Already next week we will work on the other anti-Covid decrees and, where we will not see that the Government is active for the imminent decree of restorative and support, we will act in an amending form and not with agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u84	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would also like to say that there has been a very important debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the issue of compensation. We have arrived at a commitment from the government that we have defined in term. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled on the issue of compensation, which must also be given for non-compulsory vaccines. It is the duty of this Parliament and the Senate to act for a specific rule on this. It is a duty; it is not an amendment or an agenda like the others. I call on my fellow Members to maintain the community of intent found in the Commission, to adopt this agenda and the next measure, as the agenda itself says, we will no longer compromise because it is a parliamentary duty, otherwise we will have the laws written down by other bodies. Even if they are constitutional bodies and it is right that they do what the Constitution provides, we are also a constitutional body and we have a duty to legislate on this. We cannot be blocked by a technical report or economic issues because - I repeat - it is our duty to legislate on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u87	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to withdraw the G1.5 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u90	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I am speaking on the agenda for G1,100, of which I would like to stress the importance. Senator Toninelli is right when he says that we are used to agendas that are often ignored or forgotten. I would like to remind you that there is a formal commitment by the Government to this with precise deadlines. I would like to thank the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Parrini, for the work he has done first to coordinate and bring about this result. We would all have liked to have approved the amendments and, therefore, a precise rule in the conversion of the decree, but the commitment entered into by the Government on this agenda is very important and will be able to give effective answers in accordance with the judgment of the Court, to all citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u93	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Forza Italia is also moderately satisfied with this agenda, although we too would have liked a specific amendment. We would like to thank the whole Commission for its work and for giving Parliament its proper place in terms of support to citizens, to any citizen, in this specific case, as regards guaranteeing the government's commitment, at a very precise time, to guarantee compensation to those who have had to suffer permanent disability precisely because of the vaccine. It is a beautiful page that the majority have written and we are therefore certain that the Government will not escape the commitment it makes today with this Parliament and with all the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u95	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u96	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to say that this agenda was an amendment and that, given the consensus of all parties and that the amendment was already perfect, it could be voted in favour. Parliament, on the other hand, does not know why, has bowed to the government's Diktat. It is now said that the commitment has been made and that it could be voted on immediately. That is why I will not be able to vote in favour of it, although I agree with the initiative on the matter, and I will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u97	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1,100 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G1.5 agenda and amendment 1.0.1 have been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u98	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.90, 2.18, 2.46 and 2.0.4. I am against all the remaining amendments and the G2.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u99	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u100	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, identical to amendments 2.2, tabled by Senator Granato, 2.3, tabled by Senator Paragone, and 2.4, tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senator Angrisani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, until the words "the letter ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.8 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.90 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.10 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u103	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, Amendments Nos 2.12 and 2.13 concern both those who have had adverse events at the first or second dose of the vaccine and those who have been cured, asking for their dispensation from the vaccination obligation. If you consider it at least a human principle, think about these people who are suffering serious health consequences for an experimental vaccine that you imposed with the obligation. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u104	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Granato, until the word "vaccination" is used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.13. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to Amendment 217 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 218 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to the first part of amendment 2.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u107	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, Article 2 introduces the vaccination obligation for categories such as police forces, in which there are several cases and one which is quite well known. I am referring to the Marshal of the special departments of the Carabinieri in service in Codogno in February-March 2020, who has endangered his life (even if the Carabiniere must obey the orders) in the conditions we know: then the disease was unknown and was considered even more dangerous than it then turned out to be. Yet it was very dangerous and we know well how many deaths there have been in that area in particular, with a mortality that even reached 7-10 percent of the infected. These are the conditions in which this marshal worked. Since at that time he contracted the disease, from which he was cured, he felt that he was not reunited during this period and, consequently, was suspended from service. I say this to outline the picture. Amendment 2.29, at the first signature of Senator Rauti, and others at the first signature of Senator Iannone and at my first signature go in the same direction. If the vaccination obligation for the police forces and for the other categories for which it is intended serves to contain the contagions (despite the very poor results, which I would call failures in recent months), then it is necessary for the people who actually go to work and, therefore, are in contact with colleagues or other people and not already for those who are at home on sickness or maternity leave. It is good to know that, despite the fact that Mr Lamorgese answered one of my questions in the Commission, saying that this was not the case, this is the case. You must know that if a woman who is pregnant or on compulsory maternity leave is not vaccinated, her salary is suspended, even if she may be the only livelihood she has. I repeat: this is true even if it is at home and has no contact with colleagues. Firstly, there is a lack of motivation. Secondly, I find that taking away the livelihood of a woman in maternity (even if she was a dangerous criminal), is something I avoid defining with the word I have in mind, simply saying that it should not be done on matters of elementary humanity. I'll add one more element. We have tabled these amendments, all of which have been rejected, without any explanation. The Budget Committee has given an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution, arguing that if these amendments were to pass, extra money would have to be taken out to give the salary to the maternity women involved. This means, therefore, that these women must not vaccinate because otherwise there is no cover. Isn't that right, Mr. and Mrs. Budgetary Committee? Even if they were to vaccinate, there would be no resources to pay their wages. Then the government is saying that these women are deprived of their livelihood, but that if they are vaccinated there is no money. Actually here we go beyond any limit of logic and, frankly, even of elementary humanity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u108	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators, up to the words'maternity', on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.30 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.31, tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.32, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to Amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,34, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, up to the word "di". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.35 to 2.43 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.44, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.45, tabled by Senator Angrisani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2.46, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,47, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 2,48, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.49, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 2.50, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.51, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 2.52, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.53, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, identical to amendment 2.54, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.55, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,56, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u111	RICCIARDI (M5S). Mr President, I shall withdraw agenda G2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u112	Amendments 2.0.1 and 2.0.2 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1,100. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.3 tabled by Senators Zaffini and La Russa, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.4 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u115	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, although we agree with the spirit of this amendment, which is a worthy and commendable act, we will still vote against it, and I want to clearly explain why it would not otherwise be understandable. Amendment 2.0.4 (text 3), which absorbed 2.0.5 (text 3), originally required a day's leave for certain categories of public workers - those of central functions - to be allowed to go to the vaccine. In a first rewording this permission was extended to all employees of the public administration and in the third rewording, at our request, also to the private sector. The Government accepted the reformulation and gave a favourable opinion on the proposal to allow the day of leave in a fair manner for workers in the public and private sectors. Unfortunately, then, as often happens during the examination in the Budget Commission, MEF, General Accounting and so on, the usual coverage problems have arisen and we have returned to an earlier version. It is a good thing that civil servants are allowed to exercise their right-obligation to immunise themselves, but we do not want to see any disparity. With the approval of this amendment we will have workers in private with a vaccination obligation who will have to take a day off in order to immunize themselves if they cannot find a slot available on Sunday or on their day of rest, and we understand that those who have the vaccination obligation have the obvious need to do so as soon as possible. At the same time, employees of the public who do not belong to subjects with vaccination obligation may benefit from a day's leave (not one or two hours) at the expense of the community. We believe that this choice is unfair. We would like the same treatment for the workers of the public and those of the private sector. If that is not possible, we would prefer equality, unfortunately, to fall: we do not want children and stepchildren, public workers of the A and private workers of the B series. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u118	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. We would also like a further extension, but this amendment reabsorbed the 2.0.5 (text 3), which was submitted to the Commission by the Brothers of Italy, which is why we will vote in favour so that, at least for these categories, there is a paid permit on the day on which they are subjected to the vaccine.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u121	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Forza Italia will also vote in favour of this amendment, although it is aware that, rather than nothing, it is better, and that at least one category of workers will be able to enjoy the possibility of going to vaccination without losing a day's work. We always hope and encourage the Government to find resources at a later stage, as soon as possible, so that this possibility can of course also be extended to workers in the private sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u122	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.0.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.6 has been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 3 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u123	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u124	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u125	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.8 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.9 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, until the following word is inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.12. are therefore excluded. Amendments 3.10 and 3.11 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.14 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G3.14. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.1, tabled by Senator Toninelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G3.14, tabled by Senator Toninelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u126	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.1, 4. 2 and 4.3, identical. The opinion also opposed amendments 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17, 4.18 and 4.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u129	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I would like to point out that there are several amendments, signed by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli, which should lapse, because the two Members are not present in this House and no one has taken them up. We've voted on them so far. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u130	Thank you for your report, Senator Drago. In the meantime, let us proceed with the expression of opinions. Then, if no one takes them up, at the time of the vote, the amendments of the proposers who are not present will be deemed to have fallen. I call on the rapporteur to continue his comments on the amendments and agendas presented in Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u131	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.20, 4.21 and 4.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u134	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of amendment 4.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u135	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.23, 4.24 and 4.25. Amendment 4.26 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. I am also opposed to Amendment 4.27 while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 4.28. Finally, I am against the G4.1, G4.2 and G4.26 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u136	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u137	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli, identical to amendments 4.2, tabled by Senator Granato, and 4.3, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). If no one does so at all, I consider Amendment 4.4 to be dropped. Senator Drago pointed out to me that the proposers of certain amendments were not present. Can I consider that Senator Grenato subscribes to all of Senator Angrisani's amendments? All right. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.7 tabled by Senators Angrisani and Granato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Ciampollo's amendment 4.10, if no one does so at all, I declare it to be dropped. I see Senators Lannutti and Abbot are asking to add the signature. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, until the words "the number" are given. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.12 and 4.13 are therefore not included. Amendment 4.14 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.16, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Abbot, have you taken over all the first-signed amendments from Senator Ciampolillo? ABATE (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.18, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u140	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to this amendment, which we have already discussed in the Commission, because it is a problem that I have already raised in the general debate, namely that of the inhabitants of the islands, which are doubly discriminated against by comparison with other Italian citizens who decide not to vaccinate, but who can circulate in the Italian territory by their own means. It is clear that from the islands, being unable to take other means of transport to reach the mainland, they are required the super green pass, necessary for the plane, the train and everything else, and therefore they are discriminated further for this crossing. Someone referred to the ministerial circular of three days ago, of Minister Hope, but it refers in particular to the smaller islands and therefore from February 10 onwards clearly the problem will also be for them. However, the most important problem and limitation concerns the major islands, so that there are also spontaneous committees of citizens, who have also filed petitions on this issue. Nevertheless, the Commission did not vote in favour of this amendment. However, as a dreamer, I hope and place everything in the hands of the Members of this House, so that the choice of fair treatment for the citizens of the islands is made.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u141	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senators Angrisani and other Senators, until the word 'delete' is deleted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4.20 to 4.23 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u144	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on this first-signed amendment by Senator La Pietra, which calls for the exemption of small island residents alone in the region. Here we have paradoxical effects, which have already been illustrated, of people who cannot go to the hospital, because they do not have the green pass. There are islands where there is not even a place to swab, inside the island, and therefore the inhabitants must take a public means to go to another island or to go to the Continent, to the mainland. There are even cases of people who would like to make the vaccine, but they can't take the ferry to get the vaccine because they didn't make the vaccine. These are paradoxical issues, which deserve some attention, because they concern real people.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u145	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.26 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G4.26. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,27 tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.28, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u148	PAGENO, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to make a correction to the opinions I gave on the agenda. Opinions are in favour and not against the G4 and 4.26 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u149	The opinion was opposed to the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u152	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I withdraw the G4.1 agenda. The same thing happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u153	The G4.2 and G4.26 agendas voted in favour. I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u154	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u155	As they have been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4.2 and G 4.26 will not be put to the vote. Senator De Petris, when I read the impponibilitys, it appeared to me that the additional amendment 5.0.6 (text 2) at its first signature was available on condition that it was referred to Article 4. Can I have it voted as an additional amendment 4.0.100? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, when you move it, you give me the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm moving it now because I'm finishing article 4. Otherwise, I can't let him vote anymore. We put it to the vote. Let us first listen to the rapporteur's opinion and then let me give you the floor for the statement. We are talking about the additional amendment 5.0.6 (text 2) which, from the Presidency's indications, is available on condition that it is referred to Article 4. So I am finishing Rule 4 and I have to put it to the vote. The rapporteur must kindly give me the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u156	Mr President, are you asking me for the opinion on Amendment 5.0.6? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, we are talking about amendment 5.0.6 (text 2), already amendment 7.0.1, which would turn into an additional amendment 4.0.100. , rapporteur. Yes, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u159	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I think there is some problem with the file. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are talking about page 57 of the amendment file. I have the additional amendment 5.0.6 (text 2) which the Presidency considers available only if referred to in Article 4. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I can inform you of the inconsistencies that I note. The G4.2 agenda, which was presented by Senator Parente and on which we had stopped earlier, was actually voted by the Commission and should be referred to as the Commission's. It is what created misunderstanding with the rapporteur, who clearly did not see it marked as the Commission's agenda. Then there are other missing days orders in Article 5. I would point out that Amendment 5.0.6, which was rejected by the Commission, appeared to me to be withdrawn from the House and not moved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us talk about Amendment 5.0.6. Amendment 5.6 is partly inadmissible. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Amendment 5.6 has been withdrawn (text 1). Text 2 has been transformed into an agenda, which has been approved and has disappeared, but we will see it later because it refers to Article 5. Amendment 5.0.6, which you are now moving to Article 4, has been rejected by the Commission (this is the well-known issue of parapharmacies). You now put it back to the vote, but it was in the process of being withdrawn. That was the commitment; I think it was well known to the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't withdraw it, and I was referring to propriety. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). So, if we put it to the vote, I think it is appropriate to suspend the work for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u160	Excuse me, but the rapporteur has told me that he is in favour. I have read here from the Presidency that Amendment 5.0.6 (text 2) (already 7.0.1) is available provided that it is referred to Article 4. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Excuse me, Senator Augussori, I'll finish the explanation. Then, if the rapporteur's opinion is against it, I am handling the file technically. I now propose this amendment to Article 4; otherwise, according to the Presidency's instructions, it is no longer negotiable for me. So I am saying at the moment that the additional amendment 5.0.6 (text 2) has become the additional amendment 4.0.100, of which I ask the rapporteur and then the government for their opinion. If the rapporteur tells me that the opinion is in favour...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u163	PAGENO, rapporteur. There is a misunderstanding, because Amendment 5.0.6 was voted in the Commission and rejected. [[Comments]] The Commission has taken the opposite view and I therefore correct my first statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u164	So there is a contrary opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u165	PAGENO, rapporteur. Yes, because he failed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u166	Other amendments which have been rejected in the Commission are still at the vote in this House today. So, wait, on the contrary opinion of the rapporteur, I want the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u167	Mr. President, I'm gonna take a little hike. Amendment 5.0.6 was endorsed by the Government; it was voted in the Commission and rejected by 13 votes to 11 (if I recall correctly). This was the already 7.0.1, which had the Government's approval and which was - I repeat - rejected in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, so now the government's opinion remains favourable? Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. The opinion remains the same, of course, because it was in favour until it was voted and remains so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u168	So the rapporteur is against it and the government is in favour. [[Comments]] Sorry, there are senators who have asked for the floor; otherwise I put it to the vote; I have all the elements to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u171	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, to be quite clear, I had asked for the floor on the fact that it had been decided to move it to Article 4. I am not the one who moves it: it is the condition of impproposability that has been placed by the Presidency, if it had remained in Article 5. I am well aware of what happened in the Commission. I am well aware that there were favourable opinions from both the Government and the rapporteur, but it was rejected in the Commission. In order to avoid creating a further problem, for a very simple reason, I have presented text 2, which is the rewording proposed by the Government. We have tabled these amendments with regard to queues and great pressure on pharmacies and to extend the possibility of making swabs. So it is clear to everyone that, with the reformulation of the Government (we would have trusted on this fact in withdrawing it), the latter could proceed towards the complete possibility of applying this direction, which was somehow given through the reformulation of the Government. I find myself frankly now... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u172	May I ask the House to lower its voices, why can't I hear Senator De Petris? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). That's why I asked her to speak. Of course, today we are in a very complicated and difficult situation. From this point of view, I think we should try to make a fairly serious argument that I have made in the Commission today and that I am trying to propose again here too. Given that the Government had also tried to find a wording, I would like to ask your representative if there can be a commitment to ensure that this operation can go on in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u175	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I apologise but have I not understood what is happening with the amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's get another colleague in, and then I saw that the government...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u178	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are calling for a suspension and a majority meeting because the agreements have not been respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u179	I would propose, given the timetable and the fact that we are all tired, that this amendment be put aside and that we proceed with the votes, while completing the dossier and then returning to this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u182	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to point out to you that our Group is opposed to your proposal for further work. It is, of course, your legitimate prerogative, but we do not agree to continue until this is clarified. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Forgive me, Senator Augussori, but what is the proposal? Wait till it clears what? For me, the work was carried out both in the Commissions and... AUGUSSORI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We asked you for five minutes' suspension, you made the surgery round, and there was another request for suspension. At least by institutional courtesy, given that this is an amendment out of 120, perhaps it would be better to consider it before taking false steps.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u183	You will certainly be able to confirm with this decision my total availability. I'll suspend work for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 21.59 and resumed at 22.08)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u186	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has been a bit sui generis. So, since we believe that the situation is very critical, objective and recognized by everyone, that making antigenic swabs today is an objective difficulty, we have tabled not our amendment - I want to be very precise - but the reformulation of the government, because we are not interested in getting a clutch or acts of force. I would ask the Government, given that there is a reformulation, to undertake to respond to this problem. For our part, as we have already said and as my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars have already done, which I thank - they have the same position as our colleagues in the PD too - we are ready to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u189	DESSO (Misto-PC). Mr President, just today I think I read in the newspapers that a law was passed in the House, first signed by Francesco Silvestri, exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars, which tries to regulate in some way the activity of the Chamber and Senate lobby. I personally believe that the dialectic that is taking place on this amendment cannot be limited to a lobbying speech, but must be elevated to a common sense speech. All of us or our family members in recent months have carried out antigenic swabs and we have all seen the conditions and methods in which they take place: most of the time in white gazebos, with a cost of about 100 euros, a healthcare professional - I don't think an internationally renowned surgeon - performs the operation of putting a stick inside the nasal septum of patients. Well, I believe that this very simple operation, at a fairly low cost (15 euros), can be carried out both in pharmacies and in parapharmacies. For this reason, if the issue is not lobbying, then one part of Parliament intends to favour the profits of pharmacies and another part of the profits of parapharmacies, while we all want to promote the quality of life of Italians, already beset by the terror of the virus. [[Applause]] At least we avoid the daily inconvenience - to families, children and the elderly - of having to file kilometers at a single center within the countries. It seems to me to be a measure that we can all share. I pray that the Government, which I believe has already made extensive efforts on this and on other issues, will at least support the adoption of the amendment in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u192	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the wisdom of Senator Errani is recognized by all the members of this House. I agree with your request and I look forward to a precise commitment from the Government, also because we - I say above all to the center right and to Italy Viva - respect them. The two amendments of which I was the first signatory were withdrawn before the beginning of work in this Chamber; an amendment was left, demonstrating that this was a reformulation of the government's will, and to give at least an opportunity to speak in this House. We found ourselves with the center-right and Viva Italy who sent under the Government to the Commission. We assume this act of responsibility, but we also ask for it by speaking in the House to the Government. Sorry, and I think above all of the friends of Italy Viva, who - I remember - long ago torn their clothes so that dentists could make stings, except then find out who was the dentist and who the important political exponent who could have taken advantage of it. [[Applause.]] This is not about those who defend a professional order and those who oppose it: it was just about giving more service to the citizens. [[Applause.]] Let us hope that the government will commit itself to this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u195	Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. I thank Senator Errani because he indicated a median route and, when there is a median route, it is easier for each of us to reach the destination. Therefore, on my part and on the part of the Government there is clearly the greatest commitment to pursue the middle path and to find a solution that does not divide us at a time like the present one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u198	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we withdraw the amendment because the Government has made this commitment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u201	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, if I understood correctly, the amendment would be withdrawn; if so, I would ask you to do so and vote on it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u202	Mr President, having been rejected by the Commission, I can only say that I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u203	Mr President, I think I have given a very clear message, namely to avoid division and to follow a middle course. At this point, the opinion is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u206	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, as you know, this is why we also asked the Government for a commitment: of course, when we withdraw the amendment, we think we should turn it into a agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u207	Senator De Petris, in withdrawing amendment 5.0.6, intends to turn it into an agenda. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, we're adults enough. If I have an indication of the first signatory of the amendment, which corrects me in my interpretation of the withdrawal tout court, telling me that his will is to turn the agenda, I must respect the will of the first signatory of the amendment. So, I apologise personally to Senator De Petris for misanticipating the proposer's intention.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u210	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I would also like to make it clear to my colleagues that the agenda is not the amendment for us. The agenda is the commitment in the terms in which the government has taken it in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u213	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, we are asking Senator De Petris for permission to sign this agenda as the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u214	I add with the intentions as expressed by the Government. This has just been stated by the Government as to how it intends to develop the agenda in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u217	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-I-C-EU-NdC (NC)). Mr President, the mediation effort that comes from both Senator Errani and the Government is very welcome. Now, however, Senator Errani has specified that the agenda is not the content of the amendment. Evidently, there is a government commitment to reconsider the question of swabs. I - for example - although I know that my position is a lateral one, I think that at this stage of the pandemic something should not be done that facilitates what has become a fashion, but that certainly is not good, that is to say, making too many swabs. The swabs, at this stage, do not mean anything, because the virus has changed. That, however, is my opinion. Therefore, I would like to know the text of the agenda in question: if it is a commitment by the Government to reconsider the problem of swabs and, therefore, also to consider the issues that have been raised, this House can vote unanimously. If, on the other hand, the text of the agenda is the resumption of the content of the amendment, there is obviously a fundamental contrast, which is legitimate. So it's not a middle way, but it's a confusing way, because you take the content of an amendment on which there was a rejection and you put it inside an agenda. Mr President, we would therefore like to know what the content of the agenda is.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u220	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, in reply to Senator Quagliariello, I can say that the content of the agenda is very clear and there are no misunderstandings. We asked before we withdrew the amendment - as you know - that we should have a commitment in this House not only with the words - but, of course, with that - and therefore a statement by the Government. The Government has been very clear and has said some very precise things, taking into account the issues raised by the amendment - namely that we have a very strong pressure problem at the moment by the citizens with regard to swabs - of the debate in the Commission and in this House and of the inspirations given by our amendment as well. I would therefore like to draw up the agenda precisely in the direction of the situation it faces and as explained by the Undersecretary, Mr Sileri, who said that the Government, given the very strong pressure and suffering of its citizens as regards the possibility of making swabs quickly, will endeavour to find a technical solution. These are exactly the words spoken by the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u223	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I am only asking Senator De Petris to sign the agenda as a group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u224	I would like to ask the House for some cooperation. I will ask Senator De Petris for a written text, because the subscriptions are from the Movimento 5 Stars and from the PD. [[Applause]] In the meantime, I would ask, if possible, for a provision to give the senator the opportunity to write the text of the agenda on which this House will be called, as well as the rapporteur and the Government, to express its opinion, and therefore to move forward. If no one objects, they put the agenda aside pending the written text, which will be submitted to the rapporteur and the Government, to proceed with the opinions in Article 5. I call on the rapporteur and the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u225	Mr President, I am against Amendments 5.1 and 5.2. Amendment 5.3 turns me into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u226	Unfortunately, this is not the case for the Presidency. Senator Parente, has amendment 5.3 been turned into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u227	Mr President, amendment 5.3 has been transformed into an agenda and accepted by the Government. That is what happened in the Commission. PAGENO, rapporteur. There's a problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you're gonna pick it up?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u228	Mr President, I note some inconsistencies in the dossier for this House. I have a duty to say this, because this has led me into error on more than one occasion. It is true that it appears to me that Amendment 5.3 has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u229	Yeah, but it's two different times. If Senator Parente tells me that amendment 5.3 is withdrawn, I consider it withdrawn and I assume that the agenda was presented 5.1. Senator Parente, I ask you if you answer the truth. Parent (IV-PSI). Yes, I do not know why it is not present in the file, since it has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u232	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as I was anticipating earlier, there are problems in Article 5. In other words, there are amendments which have been transformed into agendas which are missing in the file. I am referring to Senator Parente's amendment 5.3; the amendment to be voted on remains in the file, but in fact it has been withdrawn, turned into an agenda and approved. The same is true of Senator Vitali's amendment 5.5, with the famous table which, at the request of the Government, has been transformed into an agenda and then accepted. It's not in the text. Then there are the amendments 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9 and 5.10, of which the text 1 has remained in the dossier, which has actually been exceeded by a text 2, which has been transformed into five agendas, all of which have been adopted. Therefore, for Article 5 the file is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u233	Senator Augussori, there is a difference between the file for the Commission and the file for the Assembly. If these are the agendas approved by the Commission, I do not know whether they have been put back to the House. If they have not been proposed again for the House, we do not find them in the file. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we should find the texts 2, which we are going to turn into agendas. Both the agenda and text 2 cannot disappear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They were probably not presented for the House. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Why not? There are, however, approved agendas, which must be included in the file, as the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Accepted or approved? Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). There was no vote on these. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So they were accepted: you did not vote for them, they were not approved and they were not re-proposed for the House. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). There are others who are here, even though they have been accepted and not voted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They have been approved and are also included in the dossier for the Assembly. Those who have been accepted into the Commission are not re-proposed in this House. We are all colleagues and we all follow the same procedures. So, I think the file is absolutely correct. If Senator Parente tells me that amendment 5.3...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u236	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I want to say something about this. It's not like that. As far as the dossier was concerned, there are some amendments to an earlier article which have been accepted and which have been proposed here again. We can't find those in Article 5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Parent Senator, have they been approved or accepted? Parent (IV-PSI). Those in Article 2 - I think - have been accepted and are contained in the dossier. It is not the criterion that you say is right; but, as the file was drawn up, some accepted texts are present and other accepted texts are not. Those in Article 5 are not present. The same criterion of acceptance has been applied for some articles and others not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the President of the Commission, Senator Parrini, to speak, in order to clarify to the House and the Presidency how the work has been done on the texts accepted and approved and, therefore, on their re-position in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u237	Mr President, the rule requires that the texts adopted in the Commission, because there is a favourable opinion from the Government on the text presented, end their lives at that time, in the Commission. Only those who are retabled for the Assembly shall be submitted to the vote of the Assembly. So, the mystery is easily clarified.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u238	We have reached Amendment 5.3, which I have withdrawn, because it is one of those accepted by the Commission. Do you confirm the withdrawal of Amendment 5.3, Senator Parente?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u239	Mr President, I confirm the withdrawal, but I still have the following question: why are the previous agendas on the file and the others not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I think Senator Parrini's explanation has been very clear, Senator Parente. If necessary, you will clarify yourself further in the Commission. Senator Pagano, we can move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u240	Mr President, I am against Amendment 5.4. I turn to President Parrini. Amendment 5.5 has been withdrawn and the agenda has been approved in the Commission and ends there. Right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was accepted by the Commission. Senator Pagano, what is the opinion on Amendment 5.12? PAGENO, rapporteur. Mr President, I am against this. I also voted against the G5.1 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 5.6 and 5.9 are partially inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u243	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 5.6 is clearly partially inadmissible and that is why a text 2 was tabled. The same applies to identical amendments by the other groups. Having no interest in the adoption of the first text here and being satisfied with the inclusion of the agenda in the Commission, I could turn it into an agenda to be accepted here too, but we do not unnecessarily delay the time, having already been a step in the Commission. I also suggest that other groups do the same. We withdraw amendment 5.6; the others can withdraw the subsequent amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u244	Amendment 5.9 would remain. Senator Malan, will you pick it up too? Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Quagliariello, amendment 5.10 presents the same type of problem: there is partial eligibility. My fellow Members, Mr Augussori and Mr Malan, have opted for their withdrawal. Mr Quegliariello (Misto-I-C-EU-NdC (NC)). Mr President, I also withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteur to comment on the additional amendments to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u245	Mr President, I am against Amendments 5.0.5 and 5.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u246	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Granato, identical to Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.3 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.5 to 5.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G5.1 agenda, tabled by Senator Parente. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.1 and 5.0.3 cannot be proposed. Amendments 5.0.2 and 5.0.4 have been withdrawn. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.0.5, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.0.7 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u249	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, as there has been some debate on this, I would like to make sure that Amendment 5.3 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda, as was accepted in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Parrini has already stated that everything that has been accepted in the Commission has finished its phase in the Commission. It is therefore accepted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u252	Mr Parrini (PD). Given the concern of Senator Parente, I would like to try to reassure her with clear words. The fact that the agenda has been the subject of a favourable opinion and an acceptance in the Commission means, in procedural terms, that the House does not take another decision on that agenda, that is, it does not come to its attention again. He ends his life in this sense, but the political significance does not end, because there has been an acceptance and a favourable opinion of the Government in the Commission. Therefore, Senator Parente must be pleased that her position has been accepted by Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u255	Parent (IV-PSI). I'm happy and I know the Rules a little bit. [[Comments]] But - excuse me - since I have noticed an inconsistency between some amendments and agendas that have been put back in the file, there is one more concern about this. [[Comments]] It was my agenda, which is on the file, and this is not there.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u256	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u257	President Parrini, I give you the floor again and I hope that you will clarify any doubts in order to move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u259	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, the clarifying power of my words unfortunately does not depend solely on my words. [[Applause]] So, I'm gonna try and say it again. In the Commission there were agendas that received a favourable opinion from the Government and were accepted. So, there was a political decision to share the content of those agendas, which the senators presenters can enforce in all public and private locations. Those agendas are not discussed by the House and do not come to your attention. On the other hand, if there are agendas which have been adopted in the Commission or which, although accepted, have been retabled for the House, they come to the attention of the House and to the attention of the House. There is no inconsistency, and above all I would like to say that there are no series A or B agendas, depending on whether or not they are being examined in this House. Agendas are series A or series B depending on whether or not they are shared. Therefore, all those shared are children in the same title of the same approval and sharing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u260	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u261	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u262	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u263	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1, which is identical to Amendments 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u264	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u266	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall make a very brief explanation of vote, because I do not want to abuse your patience. We have already extensively argued in the Commission why we maintain this deleterious amendment and we are calling for it to be voted on. The transitional rule that transforms white areas into yellow areas in Christmas holidays is the only point that our movement, even in government, has not fully shared. Our three ministers have made a reservation, so our amendment is a consequence. We intend to vote for this deleterious amendment, because we believe that... (Brusio). All right, I'll go ahead anyway. Thanks for your help. We believe that this article, this transitional passage, goes to diminish the action of the Government and make it ineffective, because the action of the Government has been meritorious in identifying the colored areas (the famous yellow, white, orange, red and so on), and the citizens have learned to adjust accordingly. Hence, proper behavior on the part of the citizen gets a rewarding result. If the government with this article 6 temporarily decides to suppress the premium situation - let me say this a little special - the attention of the citizen to conduct a proper behavior is lacking, because it understands that there is no longer a logic of stick and carrot, but only of stick and stick. So the attention of the citizen is indifferent. From this point of view, in order not to deny the government's political line, we believe that Article 6 is wrong and we maintain the deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u267	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Augussori, identical to amendments 6.2, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, 6.3, tabled by Senator Paragone, and 6.4, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.5 and 6.0.1 have been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u268	Mr President, I am against Amendments 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7. I call for the withdrawal of the G7.1 agenda, because in my opinion it has already been voted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u269	Senator Rufa, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the agenda? [[Comments.]] Senator Augussori, I see the presenters of the agenda and ask them if they intend to accept the invitation to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u272	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). If it is the reworded version, it is an error that is here, or it must be voted on; if it is the old version, it is obvious that it must be withdrawn. If it is the old version, as has been said, it has been reworded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That is what the rapporteur told me. That is why I refer to the proposers, who will know whether it is the original or reworded version. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, based on what has been said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Augussori, Senator Rufa will know if it is the previous version or reformulated: the agenda is his. Senator Rufa, do you intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u273	Mr President, I honestly did not know that. Clearly, there is some doubt. I accept the call for the withdrawal of the original agenda and, since it has been reworded, I accept the rewording. It has been accepted in the Commission and that is the choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u274	This is not text 2, but it is text 1 and Senator Rufa has withdrawn it. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled to Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u275	Mr President, I agree with what Senator Parrini has just said, otherwise this confusion will continue. The agendas accepted in the Commission were accepted, point. That of Senator Rufa, unless it is another agenda (and it is not, because it is the old version not reworded), should have been withdrawn and therefore should not be voted, nor anything else. The opinion is not in favour of these agendas already accepted in the Commission and that here, unless they are retabled by others or someone does not want to vote on the original agenda, they should not be voted on either, but should be withdrawn. My opinion on the amendments is in line with that of the rapporteur. On the agenda already accepted by the Commission, however, I repeat what has just been said.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u276	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u278	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of Amendment 7.3, but I am asking the Government for an additional control and attention. Forest carabinieri are also used in the checks for the respect of the super green pass. It is clear that, as detailed in the Commission, forest carabinieri are public security agents. The point is not this, but that among the ordinary functions assigned to the Body there is that of control of general public order. Beyond the provisions of the circular, some regional commanders and the General Command had raised the possibility of employing, under applicable law, the agents of the Forest Carabinieri for this function (with reference to the aspect of tranquility and safety of the use of these units). The amendment, inserting and expressly quoting the members of the Forestry Corps, was intended to give a cover to these agents of our Forces of Order in the services that we ask them to apply. So, beyond the part of the coverage already planned, I withdraw the amendment - we would miss it - but I ask the Government to check that those servants of the State are performing those functions in peace for all, because otherwise it would be a problem. We make an extra effort, assigning them to a different task; we make sure that they can do so safely for the citizens and for themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u279	I would refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Granato, identical to amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.3 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.8 and 7.9 and the G7.1 agenda have been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u280	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the G8.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u281	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u282	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Granato, identical to amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G8.1 agenda, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 9 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u283	Mr President, I am against the identical amendments 9.1 and 9.2 and I am in favour of Amendment 9.3 (text 3). On Amendment 9.0.1 I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u284	Can you also give an opinion on the proposal for coordination? PAGENO, rapporteur. I am in favour of this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u285	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u286	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Granato, identical to Amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.3 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Agendas G9.1 and G9.2 are inadmissible and agendas from G9.3 to G9.6 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.0.2, 9.0.3 and 9.0.4 are unacceptable. I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for coordination 1 has been voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, the text of the G4.0.100 agenda has been received. Senator De Petris, would you like to read it? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). President, I would ask the representative of the Government to read.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u287	Given the issue posed by amendment 5.0.6 (text 2), the Government is committed to identifying the most appropriate solutions to ensure the widest availability for citizens' access to the use of antigenic swabs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u288	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u289	Mr President, I support the inclusion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u290	Mr President, the government welcomes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u291	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4.0.100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u294	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are happy to convert without confidence Decree-Law No 172 of 26 November 2021; it is an important issue for us Members of Parliament, of course. We are aware that this is the first of a long series of decree-laws. The virus, unfortunately, has accustomed us to treating the epidemic in stages, and this is a phase in which, given the re-emergence of the infection and the arrival of a new variant, we are forced to take measures, on the one hand, to contain the epidemic, and on the other hand, to change the approach to the epidemic itself. Many scientists around the world tell us that this may be the beginning of the epidemic's endemization; it is very likely. I believe that the debate in this House today, including on the buffer issue, indicates that we need to change the way we approach it, and rather we need to accompany and reassure the people about when and how to make swabs and what is the right buffer. I am sorry that there have been some rather heavy public statements, but we believe that the debate between us has been very important, because in the beehive of the legislative scaffolding that we have, and I refer to the amendment on the question of swabs. I repeat that I am very sorry to have to note that some serious words have been used in some public statements. In declaring my vote in favour, I ask the Presidency to allow me to deliver the written text of my speech and I would also ask those who make certain public statements to have a debate on the issues we have discussed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u295	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u296	(22.59 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u299	Senator Zaffini, may I remind you, possibly, to hold within five minutes. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, it would be ten minutes, but I will speak very quickly. Brothers of Italy, of course, will vote against this measure, for a series of circumstances that adhere to the method, which we can easily synthesize by the fact that, if you are not capable, because you are demonstrating that you are no longer capable, then put the thirty-sixth or thirty-seventh trust. At least you don't take us hostage in this House for your inability. As far as the substance is concerned, we must unfortunately note that there is still pressure on coercive measures and, on the contrary, health containment measures are not being taken. I do not explain them, but, for example, my colleague Mr Sileri, they are forced ventilation in school classrooms, the strengthening of transport, home therapies, the updating of vaccines (because even the WHO has said that with old vaccines it is useless to continue to vaccinate), tracking (which we have completely lost) and sequencing (even more important, that we are not doing enough). We have not been able to involve doctors of general medicine yet on the need to get to vaccinate the six million Italians who have not yet vaccinated themselves. We should carefully consider the case of antibody screening. I recall that Switzerland has adopted this methodology to even issue a document such as the green pass. With regard to all these failures, it is quite clear that we cannot continue to exercise coercion of individual freedoms and freedoms of enterprise. This is not a general reminder of not being able to take the necessary health measures. I'll finish with a joke. We were busy, for a day, an afternoon and a night, to convert a decree-dead law, because every provision was exceeded by the three successive decrees. I repeat: we have started 2022 in a tragic way, with regard to the progress of parliamentary work. I appeal to the Presidency not to repeat what is happening and what has happened today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u300	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u302	VALENT (PD). Mr President, given the context, given the time and the conditions, I also think that the work we have done today is important. We have been many hours in the Commission, and even the debate, although heated, in this House has shown the richness of the debate in the Commission on such a delicate measure, in such a delicate time. I therefore ask for permission to give my speech, out of a sense of maturity and respect for the House and the times, clearly declaring the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u303	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u304	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u306	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, it is clear that the Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali Group will vote in favour. It's the first decree on the super green pass. So, based on what President Draghi and Minister Hope said the other day, the opponent to beat right now are the no vax. We know the epidemiological situation and the fearful numbers of these last days, between contagions and deaths; today we have the highest number of deceased of this fourth wave. It's obvious it's been a long, long day. We have accepted, precisely out of a sense of responsibility, this agenda of the Government, in order to improve the use of swabs by citizens. We know there are very long queues in front of the pharmacies. The only question I would like to raise, because once again it is our view as a Mixed-Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group, is that of the inequality of vaccines in the world. We only think of the 800 million people who have no electricity in the world. It is a fact that must make us think, because certainly from the pandemic we will end up in the endemia, but when? It's a virus that circulates. From this point of view, we ask the Government and Parliament to work even harder to ensure that the indications of international bodies on the investment of billions of euros are also respected in order to vaccinate the other part of the world, which has the same right to live on the planet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u307	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u308	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u309	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I call you, ladies and gentlemen, although I have heard some delirious speeches today, but we as a group respect all our colleagues, do not make threats and do not threaten to sell them, as someone has done in this House. I immediately declare the favorable vote of Forza Italia with conviction. Forza Italia was also for the vaccination obligation, so maybe many things would have been resolved. [[Applause]] With the measure it was absolutely done so that there was less pressure on the hospital departments. Perhaps someone in this House has not yet understood that there is a pandemic. When I hear about science, it would be better if everyone talked about football, so at least there wouldn't be things to do. I believe that the greatest right is to health, such as cancer patients. The Italian Society of Surgery has alerted that surgery for cancer patients is reduced from 50 to 80 percent for the occupation of wards by Covid patients, 80 percent of whom are not vaccinated. I have heard the example of Britain. I would just like to say one thing in favour of our health care system. Certainly there are no tracks in Britain, there are no swabs, but there are no real numbers either. A molecular test in fact costs about 200 pounds and there are few that can To afford it. So let the government go on like this. Finally, we would like to thank our health care and health care systems. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u310	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u312	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the advance that I will also hand over the text of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u313	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u314	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). But let me just say one thing, Mr President. We are voting in favour of the measure, having already voted on other issues related to the pandemic. I would like to remind you that the position of the League is expressed by official votes, as on this occasion. Where, on the other hand, and this also happened in this sitting by addressing the measure, our Group critically expresses itself on some passages of the measures, it does so, as has been said several times, only in order to avoid the promulgation of useless and vexatory norms, which have no effect on the health framework, but which could only produce exasperation and social tension. It is an issue that should not be underestimated and it is a clear example of the threats coming from the extreme wing of the galaxy no vax, expressed with the sending of bullets to the president of Trentino-Alto Adige, Maurizio Fugatti, and with the social insults to the undersecretary for the job and social policies Tiziana Nisini, to which of course all our solidarity goes [[Applause]] , trusting that it will also be collected from the rest of Parliament. I see, however, that this is an in vain invitation. Mr President, I therefore confirm the support of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u315	The Assembly is supportive of all forms of violence and abuse, wherever it comes from.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u316	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u317	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u318	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I too agree with the timetable and hand over the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Toninelli (M5S). I just remember two points. The first is that of course we will vote favorably to the law of conversion of the decree-law, but emphasizing the note of the legislative confusion that is created and created with the approval of five different decrees in the span of only five weeks (this is the fifth last). The second point is that vaccines are not enough: they are the primary and main action to combat Covid, but it must be reiterated that the vaccinees also become infected and can become infected. So we need to put in place a whole new set of action to fight the Covid. I conclude by saying that, although no closures of commercial and economic activities have been arranged in these months, the substance of reality, as we have all seen during the Christmas break period, is that many activities were still closed or worked at 10%. All restrictions linked to the basic green pass or the strengthened green pass, or simply the fear that citizens had of moving, have led to a cancellation of revenue. I shall conclude by saying that this cancellation of revenue, similar, if not the same, to the closures imposed by a lockdown, must involve, as soon as possible, the approval in the Council of Ministers of a substantial ristori decree in favour of families and economic activities. [[Applause]] Having said that, we shall be voting in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u319	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u320	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u321	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, I will be very brief. On Saturday there will be important events in Rome and Milan: there is a piece of country that wants to go to the square. It is a piece of country that has honored the country itself and it is important to emphasize this manifestation and this dissent that exists. I am also pleased that Italexit will bring the Nobel Prize winner Montagnier to Milan. What you have taken is a road that excludes, discriminates and that is now even out of focus. You have turned the health emergency into a bureaucratic emergency, and you see the results and the meltdown. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to respect this country that will come to the streets, even if it may express ideas that you do not like. You are now a very large majority here, but try to listen to this country, because it is not so lunar and it is not so Martian. Learn to listen to those who disagree today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u322	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 26 November 2021, No 172, introducing urgent measures for the containment of the outbreak from COVID-19 and for the safe conduct of economic and social activities" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u323	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-394.ana.u324	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 13 January, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.14 p.m.
