ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2595 approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2119. The rapporteur, Senator Ostellari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u5	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Act that we are preparing to examine, already approved by the House of Deputies, contains a delegation to the Government for the reform of the judicial system and for the adaptation of the military judicial system, and introduces new immediately preceptive rules on legal, organizational and disciplinary matters, of eligibility and relocation in the role of judges and of the constitution and functioning of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. As for the report from a technical point of view, I do not want to bore you and refer you back to the document that I shall deposit. However, I wanted to make a reflection with you, starting from what our President Mattarella also pointed out: the Supreme Council of the judiciary is a fundamental garrison wanted by our Constitution to guarantee the independence and autonomy of the judiciary and the judicial order, it constitutes an indispensable guarantee in the sphere of democratic balance, not in order to favor the condition of the magistrates, but in order to ensure that the jurisdiction does not undergo any kind of conditioning. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has been overwhelmed by scandals, which have shaken the foundations of the justice system. Justice is not only judgments, measures, acts or deadlines, but it is much more: it represents the level of civilization and testifies to the quality of a state's democracy. There is not only the risk for a more or less limited audience of people, perhaps engaged in political activity, to end up at the center of extravagant and expensive investigations, which eventually only lead to the political murder of those who suffer them. There is a serious, very serious deficit of democracy within the democratic relations and powers of our country. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you to call my colleagues back.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u6	You're right, President Ostellari. He knows I'm always very dedicated to this. Colleagues, I ask you to lower the volume of your voice very much, if not even to speak. We are listening to President Ostellari, who is carrying out the report on this important measure, including some points of view which I believe should be noted, each for its orientation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u7	Mr President, as I said, there is a serious, very serious deficit in the relations between the democratic powers of our country. Dear colleagues, the League is not pointing a finger at anyone, it is neither against judges nor against the Government. I ask the representatives, including the Democratic Party, to stop using the measures to plant ideological flags or to create controversy. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u8	President Ostellari, I clearly do not want to interrupt you, but you are still representing the whole Commission and also the majority supporting this measure. He is now carrying out the report, after which he will be able to make these considerations, otherwise it becomes a bit complicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u9	Mr President, I represent the majority, and I said that precisely because of the respect I have for my role and for the justice committee that I am honored to represent. I therefore call for all political representatives to respect the work of Parliament and the Commission. There has simply been an issue here and we are asking that this House should not run away from the questions of the Italians and the magistrates who work, the vast majority of whom work silently. It was simply a question of working in the Commission, of being free to represent everyone's ideas within the Commission; this is the work that has been done, guaranteeing transparency, space and therefore work for the benefit of a measure. As rapporteur (I have done so in the Commission and I do so in this House) I would ask Parliament to have the courage to look at the problems and to increase the level of civilisation and the quality of democracy in our country. Perhaps it is important for someone to dismiss reforms quickly (and I am not referring, of course, to Minister Cartabia); I believe that, instead, the debate, the deepening and the possibility of being free in the work that must be guaranteed in our Parliament are important. I believe that reforms like this need to be done well: not quickly, but well; not quickly, but with conscience and science. I believe that a surplus of deepening, as has been requested by many, and an effort of dialogue and collaboration are good for this reform, for our magistrates, for the citizens and also for the future of our country. This is the reflection I wanted to make. In conclusion, I wish the Senate good work, so that the debate can be given ample space, as we are used to doing for measures that characterize our country in a positive way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, what we are discussing today is an important measure that is suffering: it is the law that delegates the reform of the judiciary, the reform of the civil process, the reform of the criminal process, and the modification of the business crisis. This is a series of interventions that this government has put in place. The Monti Government and Minister Cartabia, supported by this majority, have created these conditions in a year and a little more. [[Comments.]] I meant Government Dragons: it's a lapsus magnets. In fact, the issue is spoiled by the fact that a few days ago the Italians were called to vote on a referendum that, if it had seen the affirmation of the popular vote prevail, would have changed part (at least through three questions) of some measures contained in the bill today to our examination. I say that the present bill delegates reform of the judiciary contains positive aspects: it limits the system of revolving doors, limits and imposes a reduction of the so-called out-of-role magistrates who occupy the Ministries (the ministerial magistrate is almost an oxymoron) and in any case it also establishes precise limits, very strict stakes to the possibility of moving from the judiciary to politics and returning immediately, as if nothing were, to the judiciary. Surely these measures are and are written in the reform, which contains the new rules for the election of the MSC, which is also expanded in the number (in this regard I confess my perplexity), but with an electoral system that certainly is not what someone divided or would have divided, because it was probably more favourable. If the Italians did not go to vote for this referendum, it is due to the face of what happened, that is to say to the overpower of the judiciary, but also to what Cossiga said: the face of Palamara could not be an element of guarantee of this system. Do we want to understand this or not? [[Applause]] We would have thought that the subject of justice would be resolved in the pure and simple simplification of what was happening at the Champagne hotel, as if it were something unknown; unfortunately it was something extraordinarily well known for the professionals and this is Italy. If Montesquieu in his work "De l'esprit des lois" cited the separation of powers, we know that in our State there is the uniqueness of powers. The unique powers of the magistrates are a fact of no doubt, but the fault is of politics, which since 1992 has been able to do nothing. We have opposed justiceism and guaranteeing according to a concept that is not sustainable, because the so-called justiceists are divisible at least in two categories: those that place the emphasis on security needs, even understandable, and those that have, instead, put the emphasis on the moral aspect, that is, the fact that there is a dominant class that lives on privileges and a class that does not have them. It is right from the substantive point of view, but it is absolutely wrong in the message of "one" is worth "one." I tell the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars and it would also be the case that sometimes even on their part began a mea culpa and a self-criticism regarding what they did and what they did with the so-called corrupt sweep, with the reform of the prescription. These are all aspects that this government has finally managed to put a stop to, let's not forget that. [[Applause]] Are we really sure and convinced? To the friends of the League I say that I have been a collector of signatures, I have built and participated in banquets for collecting signatures for the referendum, but we have probably not focused on the issues that lie in the living flesh of the issue of justice. It is good to remember, Mr Undersecretary, that these numbers are well known to you, that there are six million cases pending in Italy, an exasperated panpenalism, 6,000 criminal rules in addition to the rules of the penal code and also those on the functioning of the rite, that is, the code of criminal procedure. We thought that any problem would be solved only by resorting to the criminal way and we know that the result was the indeterminate nature of the rule and the violation of the principle of legality and typicality. Trafficking in influences, for example, is a crime that doesn't even scare Chiara Ferragni, who is a known influencer. Let's be honest: we built a criminal system on the assumption that any problem in Italy would find a solution in the tightening of the sentence, in a prison requirement and not thinking about the real problems of justice. So what was the risk? As for the uniqueness of the magistrate's power, Montesquieu said that it would be a drama if the figure of those who make laws, of those who apply them and of those who have to judge on rights were added to one person. Well, these three figures are found in one, because the magistrates are in the Ministries, they make the laws, they apply them because they are in the Executive and then they also exercise a judicial function. But the solution to the problem was not in referendums and referendum questions, which posed some important substantive issues such as the Severino law, ignored and snubbed by a state TV that could not look at fundamental rights: I think of the suspension after the judgment at first instance or retroactive application on the basis of the principle that, being normally administrative, was applicable retroactively; a legal monster that someone was able to support and with which they went on for years. I apologize if I am abusing your patience, but I am running out of the few arguments that are part of my lack of knowledge. I call them scarce because unfortunately we have become accustomed to a disappointing language. I don't know if it's a result of social media, I don't know who to blame or if it's someone's fault, but there's no culture of deepening in this country anymore; there's only the culture of those who are following polls, not of those who are leaders but of those who are followers and we keep going on like this. We thought that on some questions we would solve the problem, but it is impossible to explain the separation of careers, it is impossible to explain the voting mechanisms within the MSC, it was impossible because it was not given space to the promoters of the "yes" to explain how necessary it was to modify this system. We have a criminal trial that, as a well-known magistrate recalled, is a body shop of Ferrari mounted on a sixteenth century, an accusatory rite placed within a constitutional system that does not stand, that does not stand. I am thinking of the mandatory prosecution: do you explain to me why the mandatory prosecution still exists, when 60% of the proceedings end up in storage? We resort to rules that are indeterminate and therefore, being indeterminate, not general and abstract as they would like the general law and the general theory of law, allow us to open measures even where there is not the slightest rag of evidence, where Article 125 of the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we almost always ignore, starting from us lawyers, because we are not convinced of this, should prevent the continuation of criminal proceedings where there are no prerequisites. I believe that this measure should be dismissed as it is. We probably do not live in the best of the worlds possible and perhaps this is the worst of the reforms possible at this time, because it displeases everyone and therefore satisfies everyone. The magistrates are unhappy, who think they won but did not win, because the Italians did not go to vote. They would have won those who were singing not to go to vote, because they were singing to go to the sea. Here the conditions are different. But the reform is disgruntled, of course, even part of the lawyering. However, it is a reform that, on the whole, allows this country to move forward, to face the challenges ahead: first of all, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the progressive reconstruction of this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u12	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u13	Mr President, Gramsci, in the "Justice Papers" he wrote that the moment of hegemony is essential in his state conception and in the valorisation of a cultural front. It can be said that the parties are the computers of the new integral and totalitarian intellectualities. To achieve hegemony we need to conquer the areas of greatest cultural influence: the school, in all its degrees, the newspapers, the magazines, the library activity, the educational institutions, as well as, of course, the judiciary. These are the "Quaderni" from Antonio Gramsci's prison; they were written about a hundred years ago. The school, according to Gramsci, together with newspapers, magazines, library activity and the judiciary, is a tool for achieving hegemony. And for Gramsci, hegemony and totalitarianism are essentially the same thing, except for the use of physical violence. When the forces inspired by Marxism, then communism, then democrats, then liberals, today PD, perform hegemony operations, such as those we have heard in the intercepts between Palamara, Lotti, Zingaretti, Minniti and many other representatives of PD, they do nothing but realize a hegemonic project, a strategy written in clear letters a hundred years ago. We may not have read Gramsci, but I assure you they did. Therefore, it is eager and also a little naive to take it because the actions of center-right government are regularly frustrated by the action of a part of the politicized judiciary. The words of Palamara about Salvini, which must still be impressed even if it has nothing to do with it, resound, last but not least, even in the last hearings of the Milan classrooms, where the umpteenth trial against Silvio Berlusconi is celebrated, accused last of immorality that, if perhaps it is a sin, is certainly not a crime. But I tell my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars that the same situations were created in the trials against Virginia Rays and against Chiara Appandino. Or, addressing my colleagues in Italy Viva, in trials against Renzi's parents. All trials perhaps concluded with acquittals, but which have served in order to cast a shadow on the political opponent. This is hegemony: elimination of the opponent. Totalitarianism did so with prison, with the lager, with the gulag, with the firing squad; hegemony does so, with the political processes, with the media demolition, the ridicule of the opponent, the instrumental use of education, education and culture to give civil death to those who oppose liberal thought. The result doesn't change. When, and not a few, someone succumbs to suicide in front of such a mass of pressure, then crocodile tears flow. Some leave politics, others are forced to silence: the system works very well. The problem, however, ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing, above all, those who sit behind me, is not them. At the end of the day, they are consistent with themselves: they have been pursuing the same strategy for a hundred years. The problem is us, that is, the other political forces. Will we or will we not be able to build a regulatory apparatus capable of guaranteeing the independence of one of the most formidable powers that the Leviathan State has demanded for itself, namely the judiciary? To read this reform honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I can only respond negatively. The steps were shy, sometimes useless, often facade. Sure, you could say, and we'll say, that it's better than nothing. On the relationship between the judiciary and politics, however, we did not have the courage to be clear: those who enter a party, as candidates or elected persons of little importance, can no longer be considered impartial. Instead we still have revolving doors. On the separation of careers, Falcone's words, contrary to what Mr Cirinna and Mr Grasso said yesterday in the Commission, are very clear and were spoken in 1991, after and not before the 1989 reform. Falcone said: "An accusatory system starts from the assumption of a prosecutor who collects and coordinates the evidence to be reached during the debate, where he represents a part in the matter." Experience, skills, skills and preparation, including technical skills, are therefore needed to pursue the objective. The prosecutor in the debate must not have any kind of relationship with the judge and not be, as then, but even today, a kind of parajudice. The judge, in this picture, stands as a neutral, uninvolved figure, above the parties. All this contradicts the fact that, having unified training and careers, with interchangeable destinations and roles, judges and pm are, in reality, indistinguishable from each other. Who, like me, requires that they be, instead, two figures structurally differentiated in skills and careers, is branded as an enemy of the independence of the magistrate, a nostalgic of the discretion of the prosecution, eager to place the PM under the control of the Executive. It is truly unique that we want to confuse the differentiation of roles and the specialization of PMs with completely distinct institutional issues. Instead, we, more than thirty years after these words, still have the two figures completely indistinct and mixed. Civil responsibility would be the real reform of the judiciary because it would finally bring the citizen, who by profession is the magistrate - so he is not a magistrate, but he is the magistrate - to the same level as all other citizens who do other professions, but who are citizens. At the end of the day, this is the only profession that is in fact completely irresponsible from the economic point of view. This can only fuel the risk that this irresponsibility will also involve any other profile. After an acquittal, after a trial carried out with intent or guilt, the wrong party should pay and this does not happen. Yet there is no trace of this in the reform, despite the 1987 referendum, that was won by 80% of the participants, who were never transformed into a law. That popular will has remained on paper. As far as the Supreme Council of the judiciary is concerned, it seems clear to me that the only solution in front of chats and dinners at the Champagne Hotel is the draw, perhaps temperate. The solution proposed by the reform that we are going to vote on presents tables of the electoral districts that will not be written by Parliament either, but - by chance - by those same off-the-shelf magistrates whose functions we have kept essentially complacent to the currents that will certainly be felt for the definition of electoral colleges. In conclusion, Mr President, are we satisfied? No, we will do better when we win the lessons next year; for now we are content. We have tabled amendments to this reform, we have maintained them, we will vote with conviction and we call on the other political forces to do the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u14	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on the debate that has taken place over these hours and days on the reform that we are discussing. We have always said, as a League, that we are in favour of an integral, organic and incisive reform of the judicial system and we have always said that, following the approval of the House of Deputies, we would work in this House to improve the so-called Cartabia reform. We have always said this, because the League has been consistent with itself, it has been transparent towards the Italians and it has also been correct towards the allies that at this moment make up the majority that supports the Government Dragons. We have always said that the reform, as well as leaving the Chamber of Deputies, does not give us satisfaction and that we would try, as we will, to improve it in the Senate. For those who are treacherous - and I am sorry - there is the press review of April 22, in which it is clearly said that the will of the League is to improve the reform of Cartabia in the Senate; says the "Corriere della Sera," says "Free," says "the Republic," says "The Press" and says "The Sun 24 Hours." Nor is it true - as some have suggested this morning - that the will to maintain the amendments to the text is a reaction to the referendum. We had said this from the beginning, because we had a strong and consolidated conviction from the beginning and the only effect that the referendum had was to strengthen it. The referendum was in itself a great and extraordinary victory, because it was a democratic exercise, which we wanted, along with many other political actors and Italian civil society; others praise it, but obviously at the practical moment they fail to give it the right value. It was also a great success because the "yes" prevailed by far over the "no" and those 10 million Italians who went to the polls deserve respect and consideration. [[Applause]] At this moment, the only way to give respect and consideration is to bring those amendments forward, to improve the text that came out of the House. I say by the way - I allow myself to do so because, before me, people have said it much more authoritative than me, who belong to a world different from mine, that is, Violante and Spataro - that the only real failure in this affair is represented by the incomprehensible strike of the magistrates. This was the only real failure, which marked a watershed between an old way of understanding the relationship between the judiciary and the country and a new way of understanding that relationship, which is evidently tired of old logic and old interpretation. So we're against the Cartabia reform? No, not at all. We are in favour of reform of justice, otherwise we would not have promoted the referendum. But let us say that the reform must be worthy of this name: it must be a more incisive reform, a true reform. We are not content with the balance that this unnatural majority imposes anyway, because we must give account to our country and we must give account to the Italians. That of the CSM - as my colleague Simone Pillon said before - is a sloppy reform, which does not actually cancel the currents and does not cancel the power of the currents. We are convinced, even today, that the main way for this to happen is the draw, integral and temperate. Let's go on the logic of the draw, because it is the only road that allows us to break the link between the currents and the judiciary. On the evaluation of judges it is okay that there is an annual and no longer four-year dossier, but it is also okay that the assessment should be decided not only by the members of the judicial councils, but also by the lay members (university teachers and lawyers). On the separation of functions we would have liked and want more courage (and we will do so in this debate, today in this House), so that we can decide from the beginning of the work and professional journey whether we are on the side of the judiciary or whether we are on the side of the judiciary. [[Applause]] We also agree on revolving doors, because we believe that policymakers should remain outside the judiciary. Those who decide to belong to a political party or movement decide, in a legitimate way, not to be impartial and embrace an ideology, a world and certain logics that no longer allow them to be magistrates. This, which unfortunately the text we are working on does not provide for, must apply not only to those who have the honour and the burden of being elected after an election campaign, but also to those who simply want to run. The moment of discrimination is not the election, but the candidacy: at that moment the will to belong to one political area is manifested, rather than to another. We are satisfied with the stop to package appointments and also with the reduction of the number of magistrates who - I say with respect - are "parked" at the Ministries. However, we would have liked more courage, incisiveness and organicity. Some say: let us do this quickly, because Europe is asking us to do it and why we have to implement the PNRR. It is true and this will must be respected. However, as President Ostellari said earlier, Europe is asking us not only to do things quickly, but also to do better and better than what has been done in the past. Let's say more: we must reform the justice system because Italy and the Italians have been asking us for decades (and not for a few months, like Europe) so that our country can live up to its history and its great civilization. That is why we cannot waste this historic opportunity, which will not be resumed in this parliamentary term. Certainly we will do so in the next, when there will be a more courageous, homogeneous centre-right majority with a different and healthier view of the justice system. I would like to make one final appeal to this House. We are talking about justice, that is, that little piece of our country system that judges, in some cases, our freedom and, in others, our heritage. Let us use this historic opportunity to make a true and real reform that the Italians want and for which they have given us confidence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u17	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this reform is developing badly and is developing worse. It is born badly because it is based on a very sad assumption, namely the betrayal, by the main political force present in this Parliament, of 11 million voters who had never given a mandate to the elected to sit at the table with Forza Italia and PD to turn justice upside down. These voters, on the contrary, had given a great mandate to make our country more just and no longer the one with the lowest index of press freedom and the highest in terms of corruption in Europe. With these premises and a false (that is, Europe is asking us to do so), this reform comes to this House. I repeat that this is a forgery, because Europe was asking for justice to be effective and not for the judicial system to be overturned. Europe did not ask to give the parties, who were born after Tangentopoli and who continued on that path, the opportunity to take a revenge on the magistrates. Europe did not ask for this: instead, a bad reform of the criminal trial has been made, which will not shorten the times of justice, but will simply cancel justice in our country. There will be no justice, with the trials dismissed on appeal. Let us therefore ask ourselves why this reform should take place. It is done because you take the opportunity to have subjugated the main opposition party to take some revenge on the magistrates. The excuse is the Palamara disaster, but it is an excuse, because they are not faced and, on the contrary, the conditions that have led to this disaster are worsening, nor is the issue of currents, which will be facilitated by this reform, faced with courage, as would have been necessary and appropriate. Nor is the relationship between politics and the judiciary addressed: this is a very delicate issue, which has created many problems in our country. It comes from a smile, thinking that one of the strongest elements, that is, the determination of the electoral colleges, on the basis of which we will vote for the CSM, is even taken from Parliament, to hand it back hands and feet precisely to the currents, which plagiarized not only the CSM, but also the Ministry of Justice, in which there was Fulvietto, as head of Cabinet of the then Minister Bonafede. We remember what Palamara called him: Fulvietto. Well, we give the Ministry of Justice the possibility of predicting what the electoral colleges are and then we deliver them exactly to the system that the reform says to fight. What, then, is this reform fighting? It is fighting the autonomy and independence of the magistrate, who is being called into question, transforming the magistrate into a bureaucrat, who has to deal with trials recently in order not to harm his career, who has to deal with statistics and who must be careful not to disturb the powerful, who can afford large defensive colleges and be able to overturn in so many ways the decisions of the judges. Well, these judges will be assessed precisely on the basis that they will not have joined their colleagues: the less they will have uniformed and the more they will be penalized. We must remember, therefore, since so many "coccodiles", also present in this House, remember every year the magistrates who lost their lives in the fight against the mafias, that those magistrates were precisely those who did not conform to the bad way of their colleagues: they are magistrates whose sacrifice is offended by this reform, magistrates like Giovanni Falcone, who with this reform would have had no chance of operating. This is the sign of reform when we examine it. For this reason Italexit is absolutely opposed to this reform, which is even incomparable and has no connection to the PNRR, but it has a lot to do with the corruption of our country. [[Applause]] As a country we will pay dearly for this reform, and not only as a missed opportunity, but as an occasion when Parliament could really have discussed - something it could not do, and it has been seen - in the Senate classrooms of a true reform that kept Palamara and the other riders away from politics and the judiciary. This is what riders like Palamara do: occupying the CSM and occupying military manu, with their associates, the Ministry of Justice and the chambers of the legislative offices of politics, they put their hands on a decision-making power that is up to these Assemblies, which have been defrauded once again by this bad policy. Let us not be told that Europe is asking us to do so; Europe is not asking us to do so, absolutely. Here we try to muzzle the judges, who can no longer tell of their investigations; they will tell only the inquisitions, the suspects and the arrested, always thanks to the reforms passed through the betrayal of the Italians. Well, this reform will bring down on justice the rock of the end of the great investigations: no magistrate will be able to do it anymore; even, it will lead to the maximum interference in the autonomy of the judiciary, which is that of the political power in the organization of prosecutors, which must of course be brought to knowledge. It is not just a top-notch operation of the prosecutor, and we know with Palamara what it means to control a few magistrates instead of having a widespread, horizontal or autonomous power. Having few magistrates to control, prosecutors, is much easier to manage for a system at the Palamara. Well, even this top-level system will go from the Ministry of Justice, then from politics, which will indicate what are the objectives to be pursued. That is why we say no to this reform. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u18	Colleagues, before I give the floor to Senator Urraro - who will forgive me - I make the following communication to the Assembly. As is well known, the obligation to use airway protection devices at the meetings of the Assembly, the Commissions and other collegial bodies, as well as during conferences and initiatives open to the public, has been abolished since tomorrow. Of course, this does not undermine the possibility for each senator, if he considers it, to use respiratory protection devices, which will continue to be made available - this is important - in the ordinary way. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u19	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's intervention is very important for the existing judicial order, both with regard to the strictly legal matter, and therefore to the procedures for the election and operation of the MSC, and to the organizational system of the judiciary itself. The innovations discussed have profound implications between the proposal on the maintenance of fundamental constitutionally guaranteed principles and rights; the precision of the model of organisation in the definition of roles, tasks and powers, in fact, must be respectful of the constitutional prerogatives assigned to the essential actors of the justice service: the judiciary, but also the lawyering. Reform of the judiciary, new rules on legal, organizational, disciplinary matters, repositioning in the role of the magistrates and constitution and functioning of the CSM: the reform aims at the criteria for assigning managerial and semi-directive positions, the revision of the number of semi-directive positions, the revision of the criteria for access to the functions of legitimacy, the procedure for approving the organisational tables of the judicial offices and, above all, the reordering of the discipline of placement in an out-of-role position of the ordinary, administrative and accounting magistrates; in particular, the principles and guiding criteria for the revision, in accordance with principles of transparency and valorisation of merit, of the criteria for assigning managerial and semi-directive positions. The text on which we have also discussed a great deal in the long intercourse in the Commission - and I thank all my colleagues for their commitment - is the principles for the conduct of comparative procedures for the assignment of posts, from the publicity of these posts to the prohibition for each magistrate to submit at the same time more than two questions, to the order of definition of proceedings and to the same hearings as the candidates. He intervenes on the evaluation of the attitudes and merit of the candidates themselves. The delegated legislator, in any case, will have to take into account the specific competences required for the task to which the candidate aspires, considering the experiences made in an out-of-role position only if suitable to favor the acquisition of competences consistent with the managerial and semi-directive functions. Of great importance are the principles and guiding criteria for the reform of the procedure for approving the organisational tables of the judicial offices, also governing the documentation that the President of the Court of Appeal will have to attach to the projects sent to the Higher Council of the judiciary and simplifying also the successive stages of approval. The measure identifies principles and guiding criteria for the revision of the criteria for access to the duties of the Councillor of Cassation and Deputy Prosecutor General at the Court of Cassation. A clear point on which we have focused, even with improvements in the evaluation of the professionalism of the magistrates, is what contains, in Article 3, certain principles and guiding criteria of very clear merit on the functioning of the judicial councils, in which the role of the lay members is extended and it is above all allowed the lawyers to express a unitary vote on the magistrate in verification. The same article also covers the criteria for the evaluation of professionalism, among which are included the respect of the annual programs of management of the procedures and the outcome of the business in the successive phases of the judgment; the simplification of the procedure of evaluation in case of positive outcome of the same; the relationship between disciplinary procedure and evaluation of professionalism, establishing that the facts established definitively in the disciplinary framework must be subject to evaluation for the progression of the career; the establishment of the file for the evaluation of the magistrate, to be taken into account as well as in the verification of the professionalism also in the assignment of the managerial and semi-directive assignments; the effects on the economic progression and on the attribution of the functions of repeated non-positive judgments. It is clear also the reference to an intervention on the discipline of access itself in the judiciary, dictating new principles and guiding criteria that are aimed at abandoning the current model of the second degree competition, in order to reduce the time between the degree of the aspiring magistrate and his entry into role. It will therefore work to allow the training internship to be carried out in the judicial offices also to the graduates in jurisprudence in order to provide that the Higher School of the judiciary organizes courses of preparation for the competition intended for those who have carried out the training internship, in addition to those who have carried out their activity within the office of the trial, in implementation of the large investment previewed from the PNRR. Article 5 lays down very clear principles concerning the discipline of out-of-role, between ordinary, administrative and accounting magistrates. It will be necessary to identify - on this point we have particularly spent - among the various extrajudicial tasks those which necessarily determine the out-of-role placement and those that can be carried out putting themselves in expectation, dictating a specific regulation for the assignments to be carried out also at international level, guaranteeing an overall reduction of the institute of the placement out of the organic role, reducing the number of magistrates - and we have intervened specifically on the point - who can access and contain both the duration of the period, as well as the type of assignments that they will be able to assume. It is therefore necessary to provide that the magistrate may be placed out of office only after having performed judicial functions for at least a number of years and to allow the placement out of role only when the office that the magistrate intends to assume is necessary for his specific degree of preparation, for his competence and for his experience and the assignment itself corresponds to a specific interest of the administration, having to assess the body of self-government any repercussions of the assignment on impartiality and independence of the magistrate himself. There are also important changes to the legal order regarding the organisation of jurisdictional offices and the incompatibility of the seat for reasons of kinship or marriage or conversion to another seat or office. Action is taken on the rule of 1941, providing that the tables of the judicial offices are adopted for a four-year period (currently planned for a three-year period). A further point is added, providing that the executive of the office checks that the distribution of roles and loads guarantees objectives of functionality and efficiency of the office, ensuring consistency between all the magistrates of the office and between all the magistrates of the sections and colleges. In conclusion, this is a significant reform, which raises the issue of the relationship between powers. It is not the reform that we had hoped for and this is the result of our improvements, which we will also describe in the following. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u20	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are, as you know, dealing with the draft law that delegates to the Government for the reform of the judiciary and the CSM. The text we are considering is based on the Bonafede text (Room Act 2681), which has been modified in significant parts by the amendments tabled by Minister Cartabia and approved at the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2022 and further subject to regulatory interventions voted on by the House. Certainly this is not our reform, it is not the reform that Movimento 5 Stars would have wanted. In fact, the final text, which today comes to the attention of the Senate Assembly, marks important steps backwards compared to the more incisive and courageous text of former Minister Bonafede; text that - I remember - was opposed in every way by specific political sectors and - I am convinced - was one of the causes of the fall of previous governments. [[Applause]] However, thanks to the stubbornness of the Movimento 5 Stars, there are important aspects in this measure, such as the stop to the so-called revolving doors between the judiciary and politics. Everyone has the right to participate in electoral competitions or to have government roles, even the magistrates of course. But if a magistrate enters into politics (and we are happy), being elected by the citizens or appointed by the Government, when his mandate ends he cannot return to the courtrooms and this to guarantee the third and impartiality of those who work in this area so strategic for the country and also to guarantee the citizens, who ask for justice just and fast. Some further restrictions are also provided for those magistrates who apply, but are not elected. All this - I repeat with force - without any intention, except to ensure the supreme good of the independence of the judiciary and of the third-party magistrates, who are both cornerstones of the political action of the 5 Star Movement. I would like to highlight other important aspects concerning the assignment of managerial and semi-directive posts. One of these provides that the assignment of these tasks is to be decided on the basis of the chronological order of the findings, so as to avoid the so-called package appointments, i.e. by preventing the realization of any partitioning agreements between the various currents of magistrates. This aspect has also been taken up in the original text of former Minister Bonafede. In addition, the training of magistrates is given an important weight, providing for special courses organized by the High School of the judiciary, both before and after access to the new function, while at the same time giving value to the possession of specific and relevant characteristics when deciding on the assignment of such tasks. Moreover, the transparency of the selection procedures is improved, with the publication on the Intranet website of the CSM (we of the Movimento 5 Stars had instead requested the publication on the website of the CSM) of all the data of the procedure, as well as of the various curricula, precisely to give the transparency that citizens require and deserve. As far as the scientific publications of the magistrates are concerned, however, thanks to our sub-amendment to the Chamber, the examining committee will have to take this into account, with particular regard to the scientific significance of the sub-amendment. Another important aspect in our opinion, on which we intervene, is that concerning the modalities and the times of access to the judiciary, with the specific objective of reducing the time between the degree of the aspiring magistrate or magistrate and the entry into role, abandoning the current model of the second degree competition. I remember in fact that with the reform of the judicial system of 2006 the competition in the judiciary has become second degree; before, in fact, they could participate in the competition the graduates in jurisprudence simply after the completion of the university studies. The text under consideration takes up to a large extent the original bill Bonafede, providing for a series of aspects that I list quickly: accessibility to the competition directly after graduation, as I said, failing the obligation to attend the specialization schools; the valorization of training internships, providing the possibility to start them after passing the last exam of the graduation course, therefore without waiting for the final graduation, and the attribution to the High School of the judiciary, as I mentioned earlier, of organizing courses of preparation for the competition for trainees, even in decentralised locations. The text also provides for the possibility to carry out courses of preparation for the competition in decentralised venues for those who have carried out fixed-term activities at the Office of the Process for the implementation of the PNRR objectives; There are also three written texts (civil, criminal and administrative, also in the light of constitutional principles and the European Union), which must be aimed at ascertaining the candidate's theoretical-systematic qualifications. Finally, there is provision for the reduction of oral matters, but with the addition of the right of crisis and insolvency. This reform is the result of a very tiring compromise between the various political visions that distinguish the current composite majority of government and is the result of a long work, which has left us partially dissatisfied with the Movimento 5 Stars, but also other political forces. We obviously preferred the Bonafede reform, from which the current text took its cue, following it at least in some parts. However, in view of this premise, we do not understand the behaviour of the League which, after having approved this text in the House, decided to stage a kind of farce in the Commission justice to the Senate, by tabling amendments that would have made this text much worse from our point of view, obtaining a simple rejection. The same, moreover, has made Italy Viva, in this sense allied with the League in Parliament, as well as in the failed referendum campaign on justice a few days ago, of which we have seen the results. [[Applause]] These two political forces tried to ideologise the debate in a punitive vision towards the judiciary, but the Italians sent this clumsy attempt back to the sender. Among other things, it is worth noting that, if we do not have the political strength to collect 500,000 signatures for the proposition of referendums, but we are using the intervention of some regional councils, it is difficult to imagine that millions of citizens go to vote, especially if they are asked to substantially abolish the Severino law, that is to say to allow the election of subjects who have received convictions, albeit not yet definitive. In fact, the Italians stayed at home, certifying a real political catastrophe of those who proposed them and recording the lowest percentage of voters in the history of referendum. Evidently, however, there are those who, like Renzi for example, do not resign and lose them one after the other. Yet we all know, inside and outside this Parliament, that the judiciary needs important interventions, because there are several things that are still not working. Those referendaries, however, succeeded in the enterprise to be completely out of place, out of context and out of focus with respect to the real objectives and sometimes were very damaging to the legality and justice in our country. The institution of the popular referendum is fundamental to our democracy and has written very important pages of republican history. This institute has always been used to address high issues that, stimulated and involved citizens' consciences. It would have been important, for example, to address the issue of the end of life, given that in this Parliament - as in previous times - we cannot find a position shared by any majority. The referendum must not be reduced in an attempt to make a cut and sewn of rules in the exclusive interest of certain policy areas and not in the interests of citizens. I hope that this will never happen again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the draft law No. 2595 approved by the House, which delegates the Government to reform the judiciary and to adapt the military judicial system and introduces immediately preceptive rules in legal, organisational and disciplinary matters, of eligibility and relocation in the role of judges and above all of the constitution and functioning of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It consists of six chapters and 43 articles. Of course, I will not be able to dwell on so many points, but I will try to make some modest considerations and reflections on some of them. It should be remembered that this bill was presented to the House in September 2020 by the then Minister Bonafede; then - alas - the government changed, it took over the current one (the one of the best, to understand us) and Minister Cartabia made a whole series of changes to the measure, also the result of the work of the Commission so-called Luciani. Unfortunately, a jurist and politician of past times - they are reminiscences of the university, these - Pietro Calamandrei, said that when politics enters the room of justice, justice comes out of the window. I consider this phrase to be very timely, bearing in mind the dangerous climate and the dangerous political structure that have been created at this precise moment in history, in which the democratic political debate has been completely reset and - which is even more serious and dangerous for democracy and for the survival of the fundamental principles of our Constitution - the margin of action of the Italian Parliament on legislative activity, the power that recognizes the Constitution, has been completely massacred and murdered, allow me the term, by an absolutist and centralized government. As I said on another occasion, we are - but above all you are - in time: Stop. You are making yourselves responsible for a disaster in all areas, which is bringing our nation to an unprecedented abyss. Stop, with a vote against this measure, which does not contain rules that will resolve the issue of currents in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but contains only and exclusively precepts that will bind the hands of the judiciary and above all - because there is - the healthy one, which exercises and administers justice in Italy in the name of the Italian people. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, spare us hypocritical speeches that criticize this measure, but that then grant this Government votes in favour and trust in excess. Not me, Mr President, because I could be here the last voice that the citizens have sent to this House, but an authoritative profile, a great representative of the judiciary in Italy such as Prosecutor Nicola Gratteri, precisely on this reform, says that it, together with all the others of Minister Cartabia, who are deleterious, is a sort of revenge that comes after thirty years. And it continues, calling this reform an offense to prosecutors. Instead of blocking the transition of careers from one function to another, it would be appropriate to facilitate the transition between prosecutors and tribunals, so that the magistrate has full competence. Another important critical issue is external control over the work of judges in professional evaluations, recognising the right to vote to lawyers in judicial councils. Incidentally, in my life I try to be a lawyer, so I know certain situations well. This is a rather unusual situation, because it is possible to evaluate a category by another category, which often also integrates serious cases of incompatibility. All this in violation of the constitutional principles of autonomy, independence and the third-party of the judiciary. The document that the magistrates have drawn up was worth nothing. Not only were they not considered, but they were not even heard. I have to limit myself to matters of time (otherwise we would have to speak for twenty-four hours) or, these two points to say that what we examine is a gross measure that must be linked to the other reforms of Cartabia, such as the reform of the criminal process, as an attempt to bend the judiciary to the politics of the turn, thus violating the sacred, constitutional principle, which wants the free and independent judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, this is democracy right now. This is what Parliament shows to the people of Italy on their knees, hungry, degraded and sold to Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u24	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr Sfafe Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am dealing with this debate with a sense of regret. We of Italy Viva strongly wanted the Government Draghi: it is a well-known fact; we supported the Government Draghi, made equally famous, and we continue to support the Government Draghi even today in this forum. However, I am sorry and sorry. Italy Viva tried to bring forward proposals, with a dialogue that was constructive; to carry out a reform that would take hold of the sign; to carry forward some proposals that could certainly have affected the functioning of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, thus bringing a breath of novelty in the judiciary in general. We have brought these proposals to give a concrete and decisive response to this Dragon Government, in which we objectively believe, but we have not had any satisfaction. In essence, there was no way in which there could be any impact. Our amendments received a negative opinion; although we sometimes heard that they were acceptable, they did not go well. Then I will also refer to some of the aspects that are quite symptomatic of this reform. We have confirmed our responsibility today. Today we have withdrawn all the amendments we proposed. They were the most numerous: I think they were about 86, but I don't remember accurately. We have withdrawn them for a sense of responsibility and also - I must say - for the respect we owe to President Draghi, for what he has already done for our country, for what he is continuing to do and, I am sure, for what he will do at a time, among other things, of an extreme difficulty in all respects, considering the contingency that is being presented continuously. We have also expressed this sense of responsibility for the respect of President Mattarella who, even at the time of his resettlement, has strongly called for the approval of this reform, given the great difficulty in which the Supreme Council of the judiciary has operated in recent years, as has been recalled by many colleagues who have preceded me. However, one thing must be said here because it remains in the proceedings, because one day we can say that we had told you, because tomorrow we can recall the mistakes that we have been highlighting since the introduction of this reform, which is called the reform of Cartabia, but that I objectively find it difficult to define in this way for the respect I owe to Minister Cartabia and for the esteem I have for her. I find it difficult to call it Cartabia because this is simply the rewriting of what had been proposed, with some correction and some changes made to what was called the so-called Bonafede reform. Yet this is strange twice because they rushed us, we could not waste time pressing the elections for the renewal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. But we've known this for a year and a half. Yet, despite this, efforts have been made to shorten and shorten the time frame by entrusting the so-called Luciani commission. What did Professor Luciani do? I don't have to say it, but it's a well-known fact. The professor is a person of absolute value and esteemable. This committee, commissioned by Minister Cartabia, has come to some very extraordinary conclusions. I wonder why the Minister Cartabia wanted it if then all the conclusions were ignored and it was simply what was the text, revised and corrected, with some white passages, which, however, crumbles very easily, compared to the one that was never regretted by Minister Bonafede. It has been said that this reform should also restore a balance between the powers of the State. Reforms in the field of justice, as we have repeated a thousand times, must never be punitive, but above all they must never give in to suggestions. The delicacy of the issues we are dealing with has led some to introduce elements of confusion and I must say that, just a few years ago, it seemed to me that the clock of some colleague stopped in 2018 and did not notice what happened in Italy even during the last elections. I would stop with triumphalistic tones and accusers; it was not Italy Viva who messed up reality and never will be. Those who mystify reality, even in recent times, are those who have spoken repeatedly at every turn, even with the referendum (since it was mentioned earlier) on the reform of one of the precautionary requirements which is different from protective custody. It has been said that this referendum was intended to abolish protective custody. I have listened to a lot of nonsense, but I am sorry that they are being said in this House, if only for its sacredness and for the respect that we should have among ourselves. We should stop doing this and try to work together to achieve a useful result. I am afraid that this useful reform will have very little. You see, in fact, politics even in the face of the judiciary can never go back, it must give an imprint, it must collaborate in order to build and create new paths. In many circumstances, on the part of us who represent the legislative power, cooperation in this respect has been called for. It has happened that the judiciary itself has overcome the inability of the policy to give answers and has sometimes done so with circulars collected also in the measure at our examination. All we have done then is to introduce into our legislation the content of some circulars that were from the MSM. I am referring, for example, to the issue of judicial organisation in the field of tables; I am referring to matters relating to the confirmation of managerial positions and the assessment of professionalism. This is a very debated issue, for example; there has been a lot of discussion about why we should maintain the old system, but I do not want to introduce this issue because there would be a lot to say and time, unfortunately, is always tyrant. Evaluating what has been done with this reform, we cannot support anything different from the fact that this is not a reform with the capital "R," as we are demanding. It is a mini-reform, but above all it is a totally unnecessary reform. That's the truth. In the last two or three years (we know exactly when) we have spoken and repeated several times: enough with the careerism of the magistrates and enough with the current system. Very good. The system that this legislation is introducing rewards carrierism and currents. Even in the evaluation of the magistrates, which I was just talking about, it is clear that once again the strongest currents will intervene, which will be in a position to determine a positive or negative evaluation of the magistrates. Of course, we can't help but say that it certainly doesn't harm citizens. But it certainly does not help much, even in the European system. As I said, it facilitates and promotes the careerism of magistrates, facilitates and promotes the current system. Let's say it's in continuity with the system that had been introduced earlier. Certainly, with this system, the names of those who will be elected in the MSC will be predictable, which we actually wanted to avoid. We had proposed a kind of temperate lot extraction, but that was not accepted either. It was thought that there were doubts about constitutionality, but we do not agree with that either. To reiterate the essential fact of this reform, I believe that it is enough to refer to the content of Article 5, where some incompatibility is created, because it has been said that, when someone is detached out of office, once the period ends, it cannot be included. I very much appreciate my colleague, Giacomo Caliendo, who, with his usual correctness, has repeatedly said that it was a forgetfulness. Unfortunately, I am less benevolent than Senator Caliendo and I believe that was not a forgetfulness, but it was a deliberate oversight, with the intention of excluding the heads of the legislative office from the list of incompatibility. So in this way - and it will pass in this way, but I hope that we can remedy it later, with an amendment or with any system - we will favour all those who are in charge of the legislative, who, far from returning to being magistrates, once they have finished in that role, will have the opportunity to go and play the head of the legislative. This is an extremely clear and very deep signal of what this reform means, which - I come back to this - is certainly not a reform that does well and it is a reform that bears a well-defined signature. I'm sorry, because we missed a chance. The same Minister Cartabia has lost an extraordinary opportunity to leave an indelible mark in the history of our State, in the history of the separation of powers and in the history of the judiciary. We've been reunited. We - I repeat - are doing this with great responsibility; we have done it out of a sense of responsibility and for the reasons I have just stated. But we certainly can't shut up. The hope is that, from here to the future period, there will be an effective assumption of responsibility on the key issues of our democratic system; they have been the cornerstone until today and they must still be, because we want to believe in the judiciary, despite the distortions we have witnessed and of which we have had signs today. We want to continue to believe in the healthy judiciary, that of those who work from morning to evening, who are there in the dark of their rooms, sometimes even taking very serious risks. We believe in that judiciary and want to stop using the judiciary for the benefit of the few. That is the hope. Let us hope that this will be the first step and that tomorrow we can really put in place a reform that at this moment - I come back to say - seems really useless. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to examine and vote on a reform which will be completely useless for many parts, or - even - will have the effect contrary to what is proposed in words. It will therefore be a harmful reform that does not address and resolve any of the central issues that are at the heart of the debate on justice policy today and, above all, does not solve the serious lack of credibility that has been created because of the well-known events that have involved summits of the judiciary and politics. Public opinion no longer trusts the judiciary, and I do not believe that this reform will reverse this trend. Unfortunately, now in this Parliament, what we approve of one branch cannot be touched on by the other. What the House approves cannot be touched by the Senate. In the Committee on Justice we have examined so many valuable amendments which, apart from the most politically sensitive ones, in many cases helped to solve obvious technical and legal shortcomings. Yet, they were all rejected. Mr Cucca spoke just now. Brothers of Italy voted for all (or almost all, except perhaps one or two) the amendments proposed by Mr Cucca, who were certainly valuable. However, we cannot understand the reason why yesterday we held hours and hours of debate in the Justice Commission and then see, today, the withdrawal of all these amendments by not only Italy Viva, also by Forza Italia and other groups. From the show: I wish I could but I can't. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to carry out a legislative function which cannot meet the criterion of 'wish', but I cannot. In fact, if you wanted, there was time to do some "surgical" interventions in this legislation that makes water from all sides and you could have returned to the House for the third final reading. [[Applause]] The truth is that the internal balances of the majority are very precarious and always directed to the compromise to the decrease. Mr Cucca referred first to the need that at least in a law on the judicial system it should not appear that someone is more equal than the others. I am thinking, for example, of the head of the legislative office who is excluded from incompatibility while having a prominent political role compared to many other figures who, on the other hand, are included in the list of incompatibilitys. Orwell taught us that when one is more equal than the other, we are close to a dictatorship. None of the problems that are most relevant to public opinion and, above all, to those involved in the work that are now seeing justice that is no longer able to carry out its task to the full have been tackled. None of these problems have been addressed. The main is the mix, the contiguity, the exchange of favours between politics and the judiciary. [[Applause]] Attention, however: when we talk about combining politics with the judiciary, we use euphemism, because we should be more precise and talk about commissions between the high summits of a particular political party, called the Democratic Party. [[Applause]] , and summits of a certain member of the judiciary, because this is what we are given the interceptions that have been read and studied by all of us and the interview books, the first and the second, that Palamara wrote with four hands with the director Sallusti. I am referring to the combination between a political party, which in fact has always had this tradition - Mr Pillon mentioned Gramsci about it - and a certain member of the judiciary, which is the arm of that political party within the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, how can one think that the problem of the overpower of the Democratic Party within the judiciary and the problem of the overpower of a certain current of the judiciary can be resolved by excluding that the magistrate applying for the MSC should collect signatures? The problem is not the signatures, but the votes: the magistrate who goes to ask the votes if not in the current [[Applause]] , through a transversal agreement of do ut des? The electoral system that in this bill is drawn, paradoxically - but perhaps not so much, because those who wrote it are the same magistrates who are within the Ministry of Justice - emphasizes and multiplies to the umpteenth power the contractual power of the currents [[Applause]] , because it institutionalizes the possibility of agreements between lists and between candidates. There is a heterogeneity of the aims, of course, because if the aim was to remove power from the currents, ladies and gentlemen, with this new electoral system, instead, you add power to the currents. We have tried in every way, with our amendments which we will then talk about, when we enter into the substance and discussion of the individual elements, to draw a different and alternative system, such as that of the draw, perhaps with a draw after selection or with an election after draw: there are so many solutions that we can find, in order to ensure that the contractual power of the currents, their overpower, is removed. The real question to ask, however, is how many really want this. In fact, we know very well that, at a time when, for example, it is about all the most important offices in Italian prosecutors, it is important to have a say in the appointment of a Chief Prosecutor to the Public Prosecutor of Rome, Milan, Naples or another of the most important prosecutors in Italy. A party that has soliciting friends is certainly favored over a party that does not have soliciting friends. This also explains why, in some cases, investigations go on in record time and in other cases investigations never really go ahead. [[Applause]] It is not with the bill that we examine and with this electoral system that the problem of the overpower of currents and politics in the judiciary is solved. It is not with the solution you have adopted to put an end to the other very questionable phenomenon of revolving doors that solves the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, when a magistrate applies, it has no relevance whether he is elected or not. The moment he's running, he takes sides. And at the time of the election, we lose the image of impartiality that must have the judge; and the citizen, when he sees that he is a magistrate, does not pose the problem whether he has been elected or not; the problem arises - knowing that the political orientation of the citizen under trial is another - whether that judge is really able to undress himself of his ideology, of his political belonging, and to judge him serenely. Lost time I'm a lawyer and I guarantee you that many times the first question the client asks me is not whether that judge is good, competent or quick in decisions, whether he studies cards or does things approximateally. No. The first thing you ask me is if that judge is right or left. Unfortunately, the answer is quite easy. [[Applause]] Because, even if there are some right-wing judges, he carefully thinks he's far enough out of it. Therefore, those who take sides, elected or not, must not return to judicial functions: this is the real turning point. [[Applause]] In this sense the amendments of Brothers of Italy go. In thanking you for the time you have given me, Mr President, I shall conclude with one final consideration. Colleagues, the amount with which you can read the entire bill do you know where it is? In Article 21, which raises the components of the MSM from 24 to 30. But how? We have voted for a constitutional reform with which we have reduced the members of Parliament by 37.5 per cent. [[Applause]] and we raise the CSM components by a quarter? [[Applause]] Attention, I am not just talking about Article 21 and the six additional components; I am talking about Article 26 - and I am going to talk about it better when we come to the substance of the amendments - because, because of the increase provided for in Article 21, it raises the contracts of continuous collaboration from the current 26 to 62. If it's not a present to the currents, tell me what it is! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u28	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that the distraction with which this debate is being held...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u30	Excuse me, Senator Morra, I ask my colleagues from Brothers of Italy if they can allow the debate to continue, because their voices are even covering that of the speaker. Please, Senator, the time remains intact. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, please allow the debate to continue. [[Comments]] When I preside, it doesn't happen to you; it doesn't. The Presidency is absolutely calm and quiet and wants to ensure that this House is able to discuss peacefully, starting with the opposition it is always very careful about. So, I invite you to moderate terms and tones. Please, Senator Morra.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u31	Mr President, thank you, but I would like to make it clear to my colleague that I did not stop speaking, but I was invited by the Presidency to shut up to get a little more decency.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u32	That's right. I'm pointing out that it was me. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u33	[[Comments]] MORRA (Mixed). Yeah, but I'd like to make that clear, and I wish I could talk without having to raise my voice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra, address the presidency, please. MORRA (Mixed). I would like to make it clear to those who, above all, will be able to listen to these words from home how little the reform of justice interests Parliament. Once upon these delegated laws... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u34	Forgive me again. As you know very well, the mask is required if you have a close person. There is no one in front and not even close. In the meantime, she's already worn it. Let's move on, please, Senator Morra. I'm asking you for the courtesy of wearing it, so maybe we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u35	MORRA (Mixed). I must remind myself that previous speakers have spoken without the device and no one has pointed out anything. Now, I would simply like to point out to the House that this debate is spoiled by a substantial hypocrisy, dictated by the fact that in very many words, not to say all, they believe that perhaps the fundamental problem to be solved in order to restore confidence in the State institution is that of justice. Look, just a moment ago someone, even ironically, commented remembering that the five referendum questions have been answered by very few voters, about a fifth. But I go further: how many Italians voted to elect their municipal administrations and mayors? Because that is the signal of the crisis of the institutions. And if we have, as Corrado Alvaro made clear, the perception that it is useless to try to change, we are afflicted by despair, that despair that is typical of those who, reading the book of Luca Palamara or the last book of Matteo Renzi, discovers so many disobedience that have also invested the world of politics and notes that so much nothing changes. So, excuse me, do you think it's normal for the Trojans, however programmed to stay on until midnight, to come out before an important dinner between Dr. Palamara and the then Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome? Is that normal? Dr. Pignatone, of course. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u36	Senator Morra, I remind you, of course, that you take responsibility for your statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u37	MORRA (Mixed). I asked whether it seems normal for the trojan to suddenly turn off: whether this is the reason for being prosecuted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Great. MORRA (Mixed). So, on 23 May last we recalled Falcone and Borsellino with great hypocrisy, but Falcone and Borsellino themselves had to wage war within the judiciary to reiterate that some lines of action against organized crime of the mafia type could not be object of commodity and everyone remembered the figure of Giammanco. But without going back in time, those who dared a few days ago Falcone and Borsellino replicate the same dynamics and patterns with which some magistrates, courageously, are trying to do justice; to do justice is not a simple thing, indeed, and to do injustice is something from which we should all be distant. When in the Anti-Mafia Commission I found myself on my right hand side Giuseppe Gulotta, who served twenty-one years of detention as a result of a so-called judicial error, I had alongside me a human being who was marked by the - I must use the words carefully - maliciousness of a State that, in order to safeguard someone, massacres the innocent. I am tired of attending a politicalized administration of jurisdiction. But what is the source of my tiredness? We all know that if one third of the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are designated by this Parliament, then the weight of politics or of the partycracy that determines the choices of the autonomous government of the judiciary is played out, because it is on that third that the currents themselves are shaped. To me as a citizen, it is not frightening that the magistrate has a political sensitivity, but that that political sensitivity can direct and direct the prosecution and not only. These are things that we all know, because we have all also understood, as the magistrates Gratteri, Di Matteo and many others have told us, that for example the current reform of the method of election of the elected members of the CSM, exactly as Senator Balboni said just now, not only does not avoid, but also reduces and even strengthens the power of the currents, with electoral mechanisms that encourage agreements and cordades. A few days ago the transmission "Report" made us understand something, according to a precise strategic action that has been attempted to implement since the Castelli reform and that then went into port with the Mastella reform, through the hierarchicalization of a power that had to be diffused and capillary, but free and independent. Through this hierarchization for which the head of the office has the power to invoke to himself and to penalize even the magistrate who tries to investigate, it is enough to check seven or eight prosecutors to control the judicial action. Have we ever wondered why Palamara never received requests to be placed at the head of judicial offices considered peripheral? Why did everyone want to control Rome, Palermo, Milan, Perugia? These are things that we need to understand, because, under Article 11 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the work of our colleagues can also be controlled by these mechanisms. Mr President, there is distrust of the State, because the citizen no longer feels the protection of a administration of justice which, not looking at anyone's face, penalizes even the powerful. Some of you might remember what happened in Taranto, where, through the work of some lawyers and some magistrates, it was prevented that the right to health of Taranto citizens could be safeguarded, but the same thing is now unraveling for Priolo and someone will also remember that there is the land of fires, on which perhaps you should be much more careful. We should have the courage to make it clear that if we really want Parliament to indicate lay members of parliamentary designation in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, perhaps reducing the component from a third to a tenth would mean much more. Same discourse for the bureaucratization of the judicial function: if the magistrate is evaluated according to the number of files that leads to sentence, between complex file - that could also make gemmare other hypothesis of crime, so with excerpt you could do other investigations - and file decidedly linear, unique and simple, the magistrate who does not want to have problems, who complies with the will of normalization of the power and that therefore chooses the lighter and weaker file, will be in the end better and the citizen will have less justice. If that is what we want, we can also vote for the reform that is in the vote today. I won't vote for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u39	Mr President, I will speak as a Leader in the Democratic Party's Justice Commission, because I share with President Ostellari that it is essential to restore dignity to Parliament and that everyone respects their role. The rapporteurs receive a mandate from the Commission, present the report on the work of the Commission and then there is the political debate in which I participate as Senator of the Democratic Party. Mr President, I think that we must not divide between ourselves on one point, we can have different ideas about the causes and perhaps solutions, but justice in this country does not work, it works badly, it is not able to give the answers that the citizens expect and this has moved us, as Senator Dal Mas said in his speech, this year, to put in... [[Applause.]] The applause is always for the serious respect of Parliament when it suits you, yes. Justice does not work, and we have tried to take responsibility for this in this parliamentary term, especially in the last two years, and we have put in place important reforms to solve the concrete problems of justice seen by the citizens, especially when looking at those who have serious problems in the face of justice in which the trials last too long, the times are too uncertain, a justice that has very serious organizational problems, in which rights are not always guaranteed. We have done this in part with the reform of the criminal process, with the reform of the civil process, we have done it using the money of the PNRR to recruit 18,000 people to be placed in the judicial offices, in the offices of the trial and to support the magistrates in order to make their work faster and reduce arrears. We have invested in the digitisation of judicial structures; we have done so - which we have all forgotten - with the measure on the presumption of innocence, which has already changed a certain way of presenting the accused in front of public opinion, we have done so by modifying and improving the rule on office abuse. We have done important things, therefore, but I want to stress that we have done concrete things, reforms that attack the true nodes of justice, not chatter. There is a very serious problem among those who define the non-functioning of justice. Of course, there is a problem of credibility: the credibility of the system, of the judiciary itself, on which the scandals and events referred to have certainly had a very negative impact. This reform is therefore essential in this respect, in order to start restoring credibility to the judicial system. It is not for Europe that we must reform, but for us, for our country, to restore credibility to justice. We take action on the MSM, we take action on the judicial system, we face up to and improve the legal order, also with respect to the issues proposed by the referendum. The themes proposed by the last three referendums, in fact, find a response within the reform that we are talking about. This law is the result of the work of the Government and the majority. A work approved by the votes of the whole majority and the abstention of Italia Viva. This law does not satisfy everyone, but it is a point of balance, a positive point of balance, which intervenes and makes a step forward, increasing the responsibilities of the judiciary, reforming the electoral system of the MSC, intervening on the transition of functions reducing them to one, introducing new evaluation criteria. It is objectively better than the existing. On the referendums, in the end I don't care who won and who lost. I am interested to note that a clear message emerges from the referendum: citizens are asking Parliament to make reforms. And this is the reform that is possible and necessary today, since it is not only possible, but the risk of not being able to elect the MSC with the new rules, if we do not approve this text as it is today, is a real risk. That is why we have said that this is the only law possible: it is possible in this Parliament, with this majority. Today there is a text that I believe should be approved as it is. Today we have this opportunity. We can choose whether to throw it away and leave things as they are, or improve the existing. [[Applause]] All Groups, to varying degrees, have admitted that this law has improved and improved the existing. I have heard in many speeches that we are not against it. However, I register an attempt to modify it, knowing that this would mean sinking it. Improving it is a legitimate aspiration that I believe must deal with what is possible. We would all like to do better, since this is a reform done by finding a balance between a very large majority. If, however, this means giving up reform and keeping it as it is, I say that it is wrong. However, there is more to this story; it is an important reform, proposed by the Government, on which the majority has built balance and sharing. It is on the merits that an agreement has been built and therefore a bond of majority on that agreement and on the substance there is. Nobody questions the freedom to debate and to criticize. Certainly we will not question either the Government or the majority. I want to make it clear: it won't be us. Nor are we interested in responding to the obscenities I have heard about the Democratic Party in this House in several speeches. [[Applause]] We think of something else and say that we must all take responsibility, the majority must assume the responsibilities that are theirs. Is there a problem? Maybe, but everyone takes on their responsibilities. We cannot and must never lose responsibility for the country and for the government. About Gramsci's quotes, Enrico Berlinguer said that there is a struggle party and a government party. Unfortunately, dear Pillon, I have never met an opposition government party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u40	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u41	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt extremely important legislation and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, particularly my colleagues in Forza Italia, for the work that has been done, starting with Senators Caliendo and Dal Mas. It was definitely a complex game, even if it already arrived with a well done investigation. I believe that only a few aspects need to be clarified on this issue. The first is that when we talk about delegated laws (that is the third or fourth law we are dealing with) we can never see or conceive it without the general picture of what has been being done for a year and a half in the field of justice. We have approved the law delegation of the reform of the civil process, the law delegation of the reform of the criminal process, the decree-law on the negotiated composition of the crisis. We dealt with the legislative decree that applied the insolvency law. We have dealt with the whole PNRR game and also the supplementary plan for prison building loans. Then there is digitalization, with the specific objective of the telematic process, and tax justice is coming (provision assigned to Commissions 2a and 6a), which is a nodal point, as Senator Caliendo has always said, because, if we do not get out of the way all the trials that the Court of Cassation has, we are not going anywhere in terms of reducing the time. That's the picture, and I'm done with it. A framework that does not come from nothing, but from resolutions voted by Parliament and which have translated, thanks in particular to the Dragons Government, into the PNRR and a series of reforms that we are doing. Of course, when reforms are made all together, they never satisfy anyone; but the opposite would be strange. The best deals, as we lawyers say, are made when all parties come out of the table discontented and that's a bit of what we're coming here. But we must not forget where we came from. We have opened the legislature in the name of the most total contempt for the basic constitutional guarantees; we have opened the legislature with the "corrupt sweep," with the end of the process never, that, although they have been partly corrected, we can already understand that they have not concluded anything at all (I tell you the truth). (17.47) (Modena followed). Thanks to the change of pace within the government and also to the fact that the President of the Republic has repeatedly stimulated Parliament from this point of view, he has tried to take a different direction. Some Members have mentioned some positive aspects with regard to this legislation. I personally believe that Article 13 is one of the most important. I refer to the changes in the organizational plans of the prosecutors, which allow Parliament to give specific indications and general criteria with regard to the news of crime to be dealt with previously, because of the total number of business to be dealt with. These, in my opinion, are important innovations, because very often, in the organizational plans made at the territorial level by the prosecutors and the presidents of the courts, there is not always a managerial and organizational discretion and this is the basis of a whole series of problems. It is certainly an important delegation law, because it provides for the possibility of giving principles and guiding criteria for the tasks; I refer to the organizational tables, which are the real central point of the organization and the assignments. It is certainly important that we tackle old totems, i.e. out-of-role or, for example, package appointments. In essence, it is not our reform, as many other political forces have said. If we had done so in a different regime at majority and minority level, it would certainly have been a different reform. But it is a right direction, an exact direction, for which we have engaged on a double front: the moment we signed the PNRR and the moment we applauded, as we all remember, President Mattarella when he told us that this rule had to be done. I would like to make a brief comment on the third question. I realize, with a vein of sadness because it is not something that gives me great satisfaction, that over the years the field of guarantors has expanded. Before that, it was just us in Forza Italia, who had a President who was constantly under attack by the judiciary, who said things that I heard repeated in this House today and that went on with extraordinary strength and determination. Many other political forces and people who have had to prove on their own skin what a political career means by a slightly reckless legal action have gradually been brought together. I do not mean that we have a primacy from this point of view, because it would be incorrect at this stage, but I think that if President Silvio Berlusconi had listened more when he was fighting for the country, today we would perhaps be a step ahead in what we are facing today. [[Applause]] Allow me to say this - I am clearly not addressing anyone here - because I always think so when I listen to the need to change the relationship between politics and justice. There's been a long way to go and maybe some very deaf ears. That is why we believe today that a balanced path has been taken which can lead to improvements. For this reason, we have cooperated and we think that the measure should be dismissed as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u42	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit of a debate today about the reform of the judiciary and the functioning of the Supreme Council of the judiciary signed by former Minister Bonafede, because during the Conte II Government this path has been blocked. With this delegation we have - or, better, we had - the opportunity to put a stake and a firm point in the path of democratic reform of this country. Let's start with the reform of the judiciary. Why do we need to reform the judiciary? Clearly, if something is wrong, it must be reformed. There is still someone who, in opposition to certain reforms, claims that things are going well and that we simply need to make some of them plain. We say, on the other hand, that things are not going well at all. There are obvious mistakes, delays and distortions in the world of justice. There are passages that go against the law and we, as the homeland of law, have a duty to eliminate errors, delays and distortions. We have approved the reform of the criminal process and the reform of the civil process because Europe asked us to align ourselves with the requests of the PNRR, but also - I have already said this and I repeat this - because we were not and are not able to withstand the inefficiency of the justice machine as it stands today. What is the morale of these reform steps that we have faced so far? We have adopted reforms - this is clear - and I believe that we have come close to the goal, but we have missed one last yard. We have missed it in the criminal process, we have missed it in the civil process and I believe we also miss it in this reform. Logics of balance, government and balance of powers, not necessarily constitutional, have led to reforms or "reforms." I do not question the commitment and the will of Mr Cartabia - unfortunately he is not here today, but there will be tomorrow - which must be remembered: he has brought to this House a series of measures which his predecessor and then President of the Count Council have failed to bring about and we must nevertheless acknowledge this. However, we cannot even keep quiet about the fact that we were - and still are - at a time when we could and, I add, more had to be done. Here we move on to the other fundamental point of this measure, which is the analysis of the MSC and the rules that make this body work. I would like to point out that those who use the argument that those who wish to question the present rules of the MSM question the principle of independence of the judiciary are clearly aware that they are lying, because nobody - neither I nor my Group - has ever questioned this kind of principle. Too many times, in an instrumental way, we have seen that, even if we raise this issue, it is said that we are against the independence of the judiciary and therefore against the judiciary, justice and law. It is absolutely not true: these are instrumental polemics that we refer to the sender. We saw ourselves in the sedan because we simply wanted to discuss and deepen the problem, but we do not question, as I said before, the autonomy in judging magistrates. However, I would like to remind you that magistrates are people like us and that, as such, they have talents and defects, as everyone has lives and difficulties. But who decides to be a magistrate - let us remember that it is decided to be a magistrate - has a bigger task, that is to administer justice and decide the lives of people. Justice is in fact administered in the name of the people and the law is the same for all: these are phrases that we all know and are principles that we should all have consolidated in our pre-political baggage. I remember, however, a professor of institutions of Roman law, who in the first year of law, at the first lessons, told us that everyone knows that the law is not the same for everyone. This is the point of tension that we must be able to deepen with these reforms and, in order to ensure that justice is the same for all of us, we must also affect a body such as the MSM, which - as I recall - is a constitutionally important body and has the task of maintaining the level of the magistrates in a disciplined manner. Discipline: let us remember this word. The strange events we have seen, read and heard in the books and on the news have raised infinite doubts and reflections on the proper functioning of the MSC, but we cannot do a Commission of Inquiry, because when we wanted to raise this issue it was said that it could not be done. So what do we do to reform the MSC? Here too we take an important path, we begin a legislative speech, we approach the goal, but also in this case we stop just a few steps. I remind everyone that the MSC is a body of constitutional importance and is not ultra-constitutional. Someone said that we cannot change certain rules, because they are constitutional and as a jurist I say that he is completely right. However, I am going from a lawyer to a politician and I wonder why we have not gone to a more profound impact on this reform. We have seen that if there is political will, we can change everything in a short time. Here is the key to everything: if there is the will. [[Call the president back.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I fear that for someone in here the will is not there, perhaps out of laziness, perhaps for convenience or perhaps for convenience. What's the moral? I do not want to appear irreverent towards this Parliament, but the student has applied himself, but he could do more! The people thank, and how do they do it? No longer going to vote, no longer wanting to speak, because as Senator Morra said, nothing changes. And we are all responsible for this disaffection. Therefore, when the instrument of direct democracy, which was a flag of a considerable political part represented here, is mocked, even when we tried and got the people to vote on certain issues on which otherwise it could not be expressed, I remember rightly that the 500,000 signatures were there, I remember it for all; therefore, ridiculing the instrument referendary is ridiculing the people, that people who with direct democracy wanted to carry on and recognize. Instead, by doing so, even those who speak in this House, denigrating the instrument of direct democracy as is the repealing referendum, go against their own principles, but this is a matter that the voters will decide. I shall conclude, Mr President. Let us remember the priorities, which are the unjust prisoners, the rights recognized but denied in practice. If we still have some dignity, let's change, and let's do it now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lomuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u45	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the House is called upon to take a decision on the draft reform of the judiciary and the MSM, as amended after a long and intense work before the Government and then Parliament, specifically the House of Deputies, where a compromise has been reached between the political forces that make up this Parliament, i.e. majority and opposition. The reform that best represented us, as my colleague Mr Pellegrini mentioned in the previous speech, was that of the former Minister of Justice Alfonso Bonafede: for us that was the text to be approved for an incisive reform of the judiciary and theSM. Yet the government's amendments have been made on that reform, and we too have had to swallow bitter bites, but we are not prepared to accept further compromises here in the Senate. First of all, I want to remember what is good, our battles, our victories, those of Movimento 5 Stars, in this reform, perhaps the most important one, which we talk about so much, which finally marks a clear and clear border between politics and the judiciary: I am talking about the so-called stop of revolving doors. This is a battle won by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] As always, however, we had to fight, meeting the usual, strong resistances. As I said, Mr President, it is not the reform of our dreams, we do not say that. The text that we are called upon to examine today has also seen our proposals for amendments. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments: from the cancellation of the disciplinary offence in the case of statements made by the press as a assignee to the titles of disciplinary action: a power of control and conditioning, in our opinion, extremely extensive on the prosecutor of the Republic. Secondly, for us, it places itself at the limits of the right of news provided for in Article 21 of the Constitution. Then there is the proposal on the deletion of the file for the evaluation of the magistrate, and finally the separation of functions. We will ensure that the separation of functions does not lead to a de facto separation of careers. We have tabled a number of amendments on this subject aimed at gradually restoring the ex ante situation. The 5 Star Movement will always be in favour of the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, which cannot - and must not - be placed under the control of the policy as it pleases. With a sense of responsibility, and aware of the fact that this is the ultimate compromise to be respected for the commitment made by all of us, majority and opposition, we have renounced our proposals for amendments. It is a pity that other forces have not done so and perhaps some reason we find it because it happened last Sunday - it is useful to remind this House - with the referendum on justice, which in its own way has carved a very important fact in the history of the Republic, a primacy: the lowest turnout in a referendum, moreover, on a very important subject. Not even 21 percent was reached; yet there were 978 municipalities going to the vote, of which 26 provincial or regional capitals. The questions, among other things on the Severino law and on the repeal of the precautionary measures inherent in the danger of recurrence of the crime, have almost seen the win of the "no". Severino's law even reached 46 percent, so I wouldn't sing all this victory with that very low turnout. It is not true that the questions were incomprehensible, it is not true that advertising was not given; it is not even true that citizens did not prefer to vote. The citizens simply rejected those referenda on the subject and this has happened. Evidently, the lesson that had been given to the proposers of clumsy referendum questions, that of 4 December 2016 on the reform of the Constitution, has not served any purpose. The other three questions, on the other hand, were included in the content of the reform under discussion and not with repealing operations, with a "cut and sewn" but by virtue of what must be the reform of justice, that is, an organic vision as a whole. Another issue is the reform of the electoral law. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] It has been regulated by the approval of government amendments. Our opinion is not fully in favour, we preferred the one contained in the Bonafede text, but it is certainly better than that which has allowed known subjects such as Palamara to manage appointments and elected to the Supreme Council of the judiciary. President, there is a deadline at the door: the togati in July, or in the event of an extension to September, will have to go and compose the new advice and we cannot afford to keep the electoral law unchanged. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text presents lights and shadows. However, it represents the best possible agreement with the current majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u46	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, amendments 2.0.1, 6.0.2, 8.0.1, 11.0.5 and 11.6. cannot be proposed, due to the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u47	Mr President, on all the amendments, I am voting in favour of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u48	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u52	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote which applies to all the amendments, except for a further speech. When you think you're gonna give me the floor, I'm gonna do it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can do it now if you want. CUCCA (IV-PSI). Reaffirming the content of my speech in general debate and considering the attitude we maintain towards a reform that we consider totally unnecessary, I would like to say that we will abstain on all the votes on the amendments. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of everything proposed in this House. I would like it to be recorded that for all the votes there will be an abstention vote by Italy Viva. I will then speak for another amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u53	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, until the words "preventing the obligation" are stated. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.3. are therefore excluded. Amendment 1.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u56	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u60	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u62	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u63	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u64	Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.3 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.5 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.9 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.12 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.16 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.17 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 218.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u67	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, this amendment aims to limit the excessive discretion of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, through which the weight of current and ideological membership penetrates, balancing the judgment and exposing the decisions of the MSC to the censorship of the administrative judge. In fact, it seems appropriate to make greater use of the criterion of seniority, making it not residual as this rule does, but at least competing with that of attitudes and merit. This is not a return to the past, but to take into account the experience gained on the ground together with merit and not separately from it. The management of a judicial office requires not only the possession of technical baggage, which is verified only through technical and theoretical tests reserved for the High School of the judiciary, but also and above all ability to manage relations with all the interlocutors of the administration of justice and control of the decision-making processes that only a fruitful and proven experience is able to assure. With this amendment, we are therefore thinking of reducing the discretionary power of appointments and further enhancing that of seniority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u68	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.19, 2.20 and 2.21 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.22, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.26 and 2.27 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.30, 2.31 and 2.32 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,34, 2.35 and 2.36 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,37, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.38 and 2.39 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.40, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u71	CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Two issues: firstly, you do not see the votes on the scoreboard and our votes are not reported; secondly, you do not hear when you call the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u72	Senator Crucioli, on the last point, I think you might be right. I, however, see the votes on the board. So, I have voice problems, but you have vision problems. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u73	Mr President, our amendment 3.3 concerns the issue of the exercise of the right to vote of lawyers and university professors within the judicial councils, which was also put to the vote of the Italians last Sunday. With our amendment, we want to ensure that, first and foremost, university professors can also exercise the right to vote. We do not understand why lawyers, even if with a united vote decided by the Council of Order, can exercise the right to vote when making judgements about the magistrate and cannot do so by university professors. More: we do not understand why the lawyer should be bound by a unitary vote, i.e. a pre-set vote in another place outside the judicial council. The lawyer must have the right to vote according to his conscience, without having to answer to others but to his conscience, as is the case in all democratic councils. We do not even understand the resistance of the judiciary to this rule, because in democracy we must all be subject to a judgment. This corporate and medieval claim of the judiciary to be the only one able to express a judgment on itself is really out of time. We do not understand why legal practitioners, who walk every day in courtrooms and know perfectly well the problems of the organisation of justice, the management of justice and judicial activity, cannot express their vote. That is why we have proposed this amendment and we ask the House to vote in favour of it, because it is a principle underlying every democratic principle.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u74	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u75	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u76	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u77	Amendments 3.1 and 3.2 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.3, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.4, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.9 and 3.10 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.13 and 3.14 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.16 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.19, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.20, 3.21 and 3.22 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.24, 3.25 and 3.26 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.28 and 3.29 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u78	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u79	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u80	Amendments 4.1 and 4.2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u83	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, with Amendment 4.3 we reiterate that recruitment based solely on the knowledge learned at university is not sufficient to guarantee the competence necessary to assume such an important role as that of a magistrate. According to the rule that we are about to vote, the four-year degree, that is also that of the old system, would be sufficient to participate in the contest as magistrate. This would lead to the final cancellation of experiences such as that of professional schools of legal specialisation. For this reason we propose that, in order to participate in the Magistrate Competition, we must also demonstrate that we have attended a specialization school for legal professions. I would like to remind you that it is in everyone's eyes the truly disappointing outcome of the last court competitions, from which it emerges that young candidates very often lack even the elementary notions, even sometimes the ability to write correctly a sentence done in Italian without errors, and I say not grammar, but at least syntax. For this reason we believe that, in order to guarantee that high level that has always distinguished our magistrates, it is necessary to restore and maintain the possibility, indeed the obligation to attend the specialization school. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u84	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.4 and 4.5 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.7 tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u87	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, with this amendment we propose that the magistrates in service cannot play a teaching and organizational role in private schools that offer preparation courses for the competition in the judiciary. It is clear to us that there is a conflict of interest that a magistrate in the service should take care of teaching those who wish to take part in the magistrate's courses. We see this as an elementary principle of transparency and impartiality, which I believe the House should consider positively. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u88	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.1 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u91	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, with Amendment 4.0.2 we are introducing - and then there will be a whole series of amendments which will strengthen this proposal of ours - the principle that our judicial system should move towards the separation of careers. Therefore, in order to start taking preparatory measures in this respect, with the amendment under consideration, we ask that, since the entry into force of this law, two separate competitions be launched for access to the judiciary, one for the investigative function and one for the judicial function. The investigative function and the judging function meet requirements, norms, form mentis and mental dress absolutely distinct and distant from each other. An account is the prosecutor, who must seek all evidence, certainly also those in favor of the suspect, but every evidence, and therefore represent every situation, even the most unlikely, in order to arrive to ascertain the truth; he must basically be animated by a culture that I would call a culture of suspicion, exactly the opposite of the judge. Instead, the judge must be, as our Constitution wants, absolutely impartial and must judge by having before him an accusation and a defence that have the same rights, the same duties, the same faculties and prerogatives. And then we understand very well that a judge who judges, having made the same career perhaps with his fellow prosecutor; having done the contest together; having played the role of judicial auditor together; having a kind of mutuality and also professional connection, even if not wanting, he may not be able to completely undress of the culture he has acquired in his professional career; even more so if maybe up to a year earlier, both in another district and in another Region, he played the role of prosecutor. The form mentis, culture and mentality of the prosecutor are absolutely incompatible with those of the judge. We know well that, when one acquires a mentality, then, even if unconsciously and unconsciously, one continues to respond to it. I could understand a judge going to the prosecutor's office, but never, ever, ever can one accept a prosecutor's office going to be a judge. It is therefore necessary to start a path of separation of the two functions and then of the two careers. For this reason, we support our amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u92	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u93	Mr President, for the amendments I turn to the House, on the agenda, to the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u94	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments. I am in favour of accepting the agenda as a recommendation provided that from the premise the words "reading" are expunged to the words "jurisdiction" and with the following device: "to assess the need to monitor the effects of the implementing provisions of the delegation criterion on the maximum duration of the assignments out of role for the carrying out of international assignments in order to verify the repercussions on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Justice and Italian Representations abroad."
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u95	Senator Lonardo, do you accept the Government's proposal? Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 5.1 and 5.2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u98	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to add to this amendment the signature of myself and of my group's senators, because we are talking precisely about the incongruity that I discussed in my general speech. We are faced with the fact, also stigmatized by Mr Cucca, so there is someone more equal than the others. We are talking about the incompatibility for the out-of-role and, strangely, they are all incompatible - even less important figures than the head of the legislative office and the deputy head of the legislative office of a Ministry - but, by chance, the head of the legislative office, which evidently wrote this rule, is not incompatible. There can't be one more equal than the other in front of the law. For this reason, we strongly support the amendment by our colleagues, Mr Pillon, Mr Emanuele Pellegrini, Mr Pepe and Mr Urraro. We regret that similar first-signed amendments by Senators Caliendo and Cucca have been withdrawn, as this is an absolutely unacceptable and even unconstitutional unequal treatment because it openly violates Article 3 of the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u101	GIARRUSSO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Italexit component for Italy, I would ask you to sign this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, I see signs of consent from Senator Pillon. GIARRUSSO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, the Italexit component for Italy will vote in favour of this amendment because - as we said in the general debate - the one we are discussing is a bad reform, written by those who did not have to get their hands on it. Here probably there is even the signature, because in the text of the provision it is "failed" to the head and vice head of the legislative office of the Ministry, to write their incompatibility in the reform. A slip: while they were writing, Mr President, it was difficult for them to write that they were incompatible with doing what they did. Therefore, the Italexit component for Italy will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Pillon and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.6 and 5.7 have been withdrawn. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.9, 5.10 and 5.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.13 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.14, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u105	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, this is perhaps one of the most sensitive issues we have discussed so far. We know that, under current legislation, 200 magistrates, as well as 20 administrative magistrates, can be put out of office. So 220 magistrates, out of about 9,000 in service, today can be put out of their role to perform apical, managerial or semi-directive roles, within the Ministries, especially within the Ministry of Justice, the Constitutional, International and other bodies. In article 5, which - as we know - is an article of delegation and is not immediately preceptive, at a certain point it is said, in the letter h) of paragraph 1, that one of the objectives that the Government will then have to pursue with the legislative decree is to reduce the number of magistrates out of role. However, does it not say how much: 1%, 2 percent, 10 percent, 50 percent or 100 percent? No one can know. It seems to me to be too broad a delegation, which leaves excessive discretion to the Government, which may feel that it has fulfilled this delegation even by reducing by a few units the number of magistrates out of office. Ladies and gentlemen, think that in the Ministry of Justice only one of all the top roles is held by an official who is not a magistrate. They're all magistrates! I believe that if a young man wants to be a magistrate, he studies to become a magistrate, he wins the magistrate's contest, it is right that he should go to be a magistrate. If you want to be a public official within the Ministry, there is a special career for this. [[Applause]] The magistrates must be the magistrates, also because, unfortunately, we live a chronic lack of the role of the judiciary. [[Applause]] If I may, Mr President, I would also like to explain at the same time the next amendment, 5.16, because it is another case of someone who is more and more equal than others. We know that there has been an important battle in the House on this subject, unfortunately lost. We know that the out-of-role magistrate adds the emoluments he perceives as a magistrate - he continues to perceive them even while he is out-of-role - to the allowances he receives for the function he is going to perform within the Ministry or the other body; he adds the two incomes. This is an absolutely unacceptable privilege. How many times in this House have we heard the rhetoric about people who do not arrive at the end of the month, rightly? [[Applause]] , to rightly criticize the excesses, the golden pensions, the salaries of politicians. And today that we have the opportunity to give a small cut and to make a moralizing action, all against! All opposed, even those who wanted to open Parliament up like a can of tuna, silent and silent against this shameful privilege. [[Applause.]] Quiet and mute, so that the approval of this amendment can never create some disturbance in the government and you go to vote a few months before, and 100 and more that you have returned in four or five. Then, shut up and mute about everything, even about an obvious and unacceptable injustice like this. We say something very simple: the magistrate who wants to go out of office - it is he who decides to go - chooses whether to continue to take the salary as a magistrate or whether to take the compensation provided for the role he goes to play. Adding them together is really unacceptable. Those who vote against this amendment - in my humble opinion - should in future avoid certain contradictory rhetoric even now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u108	GIARRUSSO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, on behalf of the Italexit Group, I would like to be able to endorse Amendments 5.15 and 5.16, if Mr Balboni agrees. We fully agree with the point and the opportunity of the amendment that cuts down half the out-of-role and, above all, the analysis made by Mr Balboni on the presence of magistrates in the Ministry of Justice in 99 percent of the top roles. We must also ask ourselves whether what is happening in justice is not the result of this case, i.e. of staff recruited for a role, that of jurisdiction, which is being detached to do something else to the Ministry which, evidently, in this respect, has not shone in recent years. Therefore, we agree with Amendment 5.15 as well as with Amendment 5.16 on the accumulation of prebends and emoluments, which at this time of major crisis seems to us to be completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u109	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.17 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.16, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G5200 (text 2) agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment 6.0.1, with a view to adding an additional article after Article 6, which is intended to be explained and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u110	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u111	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u112	I inform you that a request for a secret ballot pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure has been submitted by the required number of senators on Amendment 6.0.1. The Presidency considers the secret ballot to be admissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u115	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, as I announced to you and thank you for giving me the floor, I also declare on this amendment, by secret ballot, the vote of abstention by the ten members of the Group of Italy Viva, for exactly the same reasons as I have previously set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u118	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on this amendment, which I find particularly significant. It is significant, delicate and important and I would like to address the House in a heartfelt way to each of us, to the conscience of each of us, who are called to deal with what we vote in this House and with what happens outside this House with this vote. I would remind all of us that we are talking about abolishing not preventive imprisonment, but all the protective measures that our law very often provides for the protection of persons who are victims of habitual crimes, mainly conflicting interests, which are, on the one hand, the guarantee of the suspect or the accused and, on the other hand, the safety of the victim: it is a choice that the order has made. I want to say this as a woman that has always been ascribed to a deeply guaranteed culture and that believes that we are all innocent in this country up to the third degree of judgment: if our system has foreseen some measures or circumstances in which it is possible to contest opposing interests, maybe there is some reason. I would like to take the debate out of this House to what is happening these hours, these days, in our country. Only in the last ten days, from 5 June to today, ten women have been killed. They have been killed, in the vast majority of cases, because they have not been applied to the correct extent protective measures that were possible and - I say more - must apply, looking with competent eyes, specialized and trained the circumstances that we had before. We see it and study it together in the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and every day each of us in this House, in front of a woman killed by a man, complains about a culture of violence, the inability of the State to intervene and the inefficiency of the system. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Each of us is anxious to make statements about a murdered woman and we have a task, as a parliamentary committee of inquiry: we have made an investigation and we have wondered what is not working and what prevents the order today from adequately protecting a woman who has also denounced, has turned to the State and has asked to be protected. As we have said from the outset, it is unacceptable that a woman who addresses the State not only often does not find an efficient state, but risks being killed, despite the call for help. We have seen this and we have said that it is clear that the battle is first and foremost a cultural one: it will always be so, and this also confirms this approach. Attention: this cultural battle intervenes in our country that, I remember, basically blames women, justifies men, still does not believe women and thinks that a woman who has suffered violence has gone to seek it or, at least, has not done everything in her power to avoid it. This same culture dwells in the classrooms of justice when, faced with the possibility of applying a precautionary measure, very often the judge, but also lawyers, as well as those who must help the judge to assess the social danger of that subject, is all in all always bearer of such stereotypes and prejudices and of a culture that dwells within society and that arrives in the classrooms of justice. Otherwise, it would not be explained and it could not be explained why a woman was killed after so many complaints, simply because the judge estimated to release that man, because he considered him not dangerous from the social point of view. That judge considered behavior non-dangerous. Of course I do not want to throw the cross on the individual judge, but that justice worker had been called upon to assess the social danger of an suspect and of a person who had even been convicted in that case at first instance and had a penalty that had been subject to appeal, for which he had been given a basically precautionary measure. Compared to those precautionary measures, at some point the appeal judge recognized the possibility of making conditional suspension of the sentence and released it. That man, released, killed that woman.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u119	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u120	VALENT (PD). They told me I had ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's five and it's been over. There are not ten, but five for the explanation of vote. VALENT (PD). I simply say that today in Italy against so many habitual crimes, as are certainly those linked to violence, we need to take more protective measures. We are not talking about pre-trial detention in prison, but about all precautionary measures, such as banning the approach and removal of the abusive man from the house from the woman. We are talking about a lot of measures that would secure the woman, so I would ask each of us to put a hand on the conscience. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u121	Senator, finish your surgery. We've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u122	VALENT (PD). By adopting this amendment, we are essentially at risk of exposing women not only to more violence, but to the possibility of being killed more easily.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u125	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to associate myself with my colleague, Mr Valente, and to point out that this is not just a matter for women, but for the protection of the whole of society against persons seriously suspected of having committed a crime, in the presence of the danger of recurrence. It is obvious that protective measures are needed to protect the whole of society in front of those subjects and I must say that I am truly surprised that the law and order party, those who want to put them in and throw the key and those who complain about non-EU citizens who are criminals who do not happen, want to abolish the danger of recurrence of the crime as a cause of a precautionary measure. [[Applause]] This is truly absurd and I cannot understand the reasoning behind which we can propose to abolish this case. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u128	BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, during the referendum campaign, I heard a number of statements that were not objectionable, but simply false. I believe that on many things we can agree or not, but then there is a boundary between truth and falsehood. In this amendment, we respond exactly to the text that was planned for the referendum. Well, what we want is, only and exclusively in relation to some - and I stress some [[Applause]] - crimes, limiting the abuse of custody. I'm sorry, when a woman makes a resounding mistake in reading a text. [[Applause]] This text is absolutely not about violence against women; this text is absolutely not about stalking, and do you know why? Because we excluded them. Read and then speak: it is a shame that you say things that are in the air. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u131	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, thank you for noticing my request for an explanation of vote. Those who have been careful about the referendar results will have realized that on the first two questions the distance between the yes and the no has been very different from the one that has been recorded on the other three questions. Given the fact that on the left those who voted did not vote no on all five, we felt - perhaps wrong - that the no to the first two referendary questions expressed by Giorgia Meloni and the Brothers of Italy were heard by a part of those who decided to go to vote, also because the polls showed very clearly that the Brothers of Italy was among the parties whose voters were most involved in the referendum, compared with the same proposers. On this amendment, therefore, we are strongly opposed and not for the reasons I have heard here, not for the issue that my colleague has well expressed, namely that they can be - at least partially - used instrumentally, but because we believe that the matter of protective custody should be dealt with more deeply. In other words, not only should the text that is necessarily a summary of the referendary question - we do not blame the proposers - but, once the referendum does not exist, the way to change the issue of protective custody, in our opinion, cannot be sic et simpliciter equal to the referendary text, so our substantive no to this text is reiterated with transparency. However, there is a contrast in this House, also through the arguments I have heard to justify the no, which makes us imagine that we do not want to deal more fully with this issue, as the Brothers of Italy desires. For example, it surprises us - I must tell the friends of Forza Italia - that Silvio Berlusconi's party votes differently from the League, which proposed the referendum, but which in history has always expressed itself more cautiously on this issue than on Forza Italia. Brothers of Italy, in reaffirming the no to the text and the need for a more in-depth debate on the failures of the current legislation of the protective custody, which has often created unnecessary suffering and which in other cases we consider absolutely justified, does not want in this case simply to join the no expressed by the left - and I have heard with which arguments - nor to participate with a yes or a no to a strange division of the center-right on this issue between those who also participate in the Government, and towards both we respect. We do not want, in this case, to divide and divide ourselves within the centre-right on a subject on which we have a common underlying sensitivity, that is, to want to review it. So, Mr President, although I am absolutely opposed to the text, which is necessarily a summary, of the referendary question, we will not be taking part in the vote in order to stimulate a real and thorough debate on the issue of protective custody.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u134	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, on a point of order, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) (a): not to contest the choice you have made to consider the request for a secret vote admissible and legitimate, but to underline the anomaly of what is happening in this House, including in the request. We know that, especially when there are measures that are brought by the Government, the secret vote is an instrument of opposition to put in trouble the Government itself that they do not support. And I must say with regret that, instead, this request comes from a force that says that it wants to support this Government and that, in the other branch of Parliament, it has then voted on this reform, so trying to bring it to fruition, which, on the other hand, seems not to want to do here. But I also say, Mr President, that we have seen the anomaly since the beginning of this debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, this is not a point of order, but you know it well. MALPEZZI (PD). Forgive me, Mr President, but this must be emphasized. The anomaly is that the rapporteur, Senator Ostellari, who not later than tonight, was sent by the Commission to report favourably on this measure, but decided not to resign, to maintain this role without exercising it. From our point of view, this too must be stigmatized, because we believe it to be a serious fact, as well as a lack of respect for Parliament all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u135	This can be done in an explanation of vote, Senator Malpezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u138	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we find these accusations against us quite unacceptable, not least because the Democratic Party has stressed the need for reforms to be made by Parliament throughout the referendum campaign. [[Applause]] Well, this is Parliament and not the government. And Parliament, with its secret vote, is free to decide what it believes best with regard to the future in the field of justice, only on this occasion; so, at least, we have all understood what the real reason for our request is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u139	Amendment 6.0.1 amends paragraph 1 (c) of Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on precautionary measures, in particular by deleting the part in which it is envisaged that such measures may be taken for crimes of the same kind as the one for which they are carried out. If the amendment were to be approved or not, it would therefore have a significant impact on the general scope of the restrictive measures of personal freedom, as provided for in Article 13 of the Constitution, such as protective measures. It is therefore a resolution capable of affecting civil relations governed by this constitutional rule, in accordance with Article 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. This was not decided by Vice President Calderoli, but by the presidency of the Senate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.0.1. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 6.0.1, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.2 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u140	Mr President, I am going back to the House. However, let me make one point. Since there is someone who is trying to create a confrontation - and I am referring to President Malpezzi's speech - I think it is absolutely incorrect not to remember that the rapporteur of a measure can be put back to this House, he is one of his faculties. These powers are provided for in our Rules of Procedure to protect everyone. I'm not here to answer to some political part of my function. I have first reminded myself and I still remind you and all those who seek the controversy that I do not let anyone pull my jacket. [[Applause]] I therefore play my role and carry it to the end in compliance with the Rules of Procedure and my prerogatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u141	Mr President, I am against Amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u144	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, as the rapporteur has wished to stress this issue, it is good, however, that it is clear that it can happen, as we have seen in some measures, that the rapporteurs first give a favourable opinion and then vote against it. We've seen everything. It is certainly in the capacity of the rapporteur, in some cases, to have an opinion different from that of the Government, returning to the Assembly or even to give an opinion different from that of the Government. The problem, however, Mr President, is a little different: the rapporteur is going back to the House on all the amendments. He had to resign as rapporteur then. [[Applause]] When a rapporteur is unable to deliver an opinion on an amendment, it is laid down in our Rules of Procedure that he may resign.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u145	Senator De Petris, the term of office of the rapporteur is given by a vote in the Commission. [[Comments]] Excuse me, to point out: we have 184 votes and we have done 61. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.0.1 and 7.0.2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u146	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u147	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u148	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.1 is not possible. We now come to the examination of Article 9, on which amendment 9.1 was tabled, which was subsequently withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u149	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u150	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u151	Amendments 10.1 and 10.2 have been withdrawn. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u152	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u153	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u154	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 11,200 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Pillon and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 11.3 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.5, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 11, 6, 11, 7, 11, 8 and 11,9 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.10 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, identical to amendment 11.11, tabled by Senator Urraro and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.12 tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 11.0.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.2, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, identical to amendment 11.0.100, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 11.0.3 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 11.0.5 and 11.0.6 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which have subsequently been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now turn to the amendments to introduce additional articles after Article 12, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u155	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u156	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.0.1, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.0.100 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u158	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u159	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u160	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 13.2 and 13.3 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.5 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u161	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u162	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u163	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.3, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u164	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u165	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u166	Amendment 15.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 15.3 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, until the words "five years" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 15.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.6 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.7 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u167	Mr President, now begins the examination of the articles which, in theory, should remedy the deplorable phenomenon of the so-called revolving doors. They are magistrates who are candidates for elections or who take on government roles or, in any case, important positions within executive bodies of political significance. The amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy to this and subsequent articles all aim - it is useless to go into detail - at a very clear objective. As I said in general debate, the magistrate who decides to apply or takes positions within political bodies is, in our opinion, forever stripped of that role of impartiality which should ensure that all citizens subject to a judgment are treated equally. When we go to court, it says: The law is the same for all. It is clear that a magistrate who has applied and stood up, even if not elected, has taken on a political label and can no longer have an image of impartiality. In our view, whether he is elected or not, he must no longer return to a judicial function; he can carry out other functions within the judicial system, but not a judicial one. Or it can be put out of place and carry out off-duty duties, but - I repeat - it no longer has to perform judicial functions, neither judges, nor investigators. All our amendments are aimed at this. In order for the judiciary to regain credibility, it is necessary to give a sign of discontinuity with regard to what has taken place to date. There is no point in denying that, unfortunately, the scandals in which the judiciary has recently been involved have shaken public opinion, so much so that all those who have to appear before a judge, rather than wondering if he is one who reads the papers, prepared and balanced, the first thing they wonder is what political idea he has and whether they, having a different idea from the judge, run the risk of being discriminated against because of this opinion. We therefore want to give a clean cut with the past: if one has the vocation of the magistrate, do so. To talk about me, even if I never do that, as a boy I would have liked to do the contest in the judiciary and maybe I also had the skills to do it, given the results I got on the bar exam, but I chose to be a lawyer, because I wanted to do politics. Since I was a boy I had this "disease" and, knowing that, in order to make politics, I should not have been in a position to be criticized, I did not want to be a magistrate, but a lawyer, precisely because I wanted to make politics. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, please leave the House quiet, so that Senator Balboni can speak: I also say this to the representative of the Government. Balboni (FdI). Mr President, since these are completely different functions, the magistrate must be a magistrate and the politician must be a politician. If the magistrate suddenly gets electrocuted on the road to Damascus, leave the judiciary and will always be able to enroll in the legal order. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u168	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u169	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u170	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u171	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.3 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 18, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u172	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u173	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u174	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 18.2 and 18.3 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u175	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u176	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u177	Amendment 19.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 19.2 tabled by Senator Pillon and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.3 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 19.4 to 19.8 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 20, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u178	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u179	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u180	Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.1, tabled by Senator Pillon and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.2 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 20.3 and 20.5 have been withdrawn. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.6 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 20.7 to 20.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.12 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 20.13 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.15 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 20,200 to 20,16 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.0.1, tabled by Senator Urraro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 21, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u181	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u182	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u183	Amendment 21.1 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 22, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u184	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u185	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u186	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.2 tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 23, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u187	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u188	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u189	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 24, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u190	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u191	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u192	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 24.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u195	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on this article, and in general on all the articles that we have voted very hastily, because it concerns perhaps the most important part of the draft law, namely the reform of the MSC. I believe I have heard, in this House and outside this House, on television, over the past few years, that someone has called for the long 30-year war between politics and the judiciary, hundreds of vibrant complaints from colleagues, especially from the centre-right, on the political use of the judiciary and on the policy that came into the investigation to strike opponents. How many times have we complained about this and how many times have we denounced the fact that politics had to regain a role and dignity, knowing how to respond and reform justice. Well, in the end, protests about the political use of the judiciary, about currentism, about career investigations that then result in nothing, have produced nothing; indignation produces nothing, because we are voting for a reform that is little more than hot water. The heart of politics in the judiciary stems from the fact that there is politics within the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So if we do not eliminate politics within the Supreme Council of the judiciary, everything else is completely useless. We must be aware of this, especially you who have often denounced the attacks of the judiciary on politics, since the time when President Berlusconi received a guarantee notice in Naples, in 2007, just after taking office as President of the Council. I wonder: what has been the use of all these years of political battle, if then, to the test of the facts, the reforms that are taking place and voting are little more than hot water? The problem is that if you do not introduce the draw, all the other formulas you can invent do not serve and avoid the currentism. I do not say that, as Dr Palamara said at the hearing, both in the Justice Commission and in the Anti-Mafia Commission, where he stated that only the draw can interrupt, block and defeat the cancer of politics within the judiciary in the form of a current. This reform that you are voting for does not serve this purpose, because the CPMP will continue, with the formulas that you have chosen, with the instrument of politics to promote careers and to designate appointments and will continue, always with the instrument of politics within the judiciary not to hit with disciplinary sanctions those magistrates who do their job not for the sake of truth, but for the sake of political faction. Therefore, I repeat once again: our vote is in favour of this amendment, but contrary to the articles, because unfortunately with great bitterness we find that so many years of battle have not really served anything. Once again, I repeat that, if we do not intervene in politics within the MSC, politics will continue to radiate from the Supreme Council of the judiciary in all prosecutors, because they will be convinced that they have once again won the battle against politics and can once again unpunishedly play their role not as magistrates, but as political agents and partisans, with the certainty that they are safe and that no one will ever be able to strike them. This is the battle we have waged for so many years and we cannot escape now that there is finally a chance to give a signal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u196	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 25, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u197	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u198	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u199	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.1, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.0.1, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 26, on which the deletion amendment 26.1 and amendment 26.2 were tabled, which was subsequently withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u202	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I apologize if I disturb you. My colleagues say that is enough, but I think I have to do my duty; if they do not want to do so then it is their problem. [[Applause]] Mr President, I asked to speak in an explanation of vote on Rule 26 because, having proposed an amendment to delete it (as you rightly pointed out), we do not vote on the amendment proposal, but on the retention of the article, so we will vote against this article, which increases the number of co-ordinated and continuous collaboration contracts within the MSC in an excessive way. It's about that present to the currents I've been talking about in general discussion. We increase the number of members of the MSC by 20%, when we voted for the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament by 37%; the logic would have liked that, if the issue was the containment of expenditure, a corresponding reduction should also be made of the other constitutional bodies or bodies of constitutional importance, as in the case of the MSM. I am not saying that it would have been appropriate to make a reduction of 37.7%, but perhaps a quarter or a fifth, as we propose with our amendments. The subject is not only the greatest cost of increasing the number of members, but, as anyone who reads Article 26 understands, the cost of the enormous increase in the corresponding staff. Today the maximum limit for external recruitment is 26 (see case by case), approving this article the number becomes 62 more than double. So I wonder about the logic of spending containment. If this is not a gift to the currents, tell me what it is, because I modestly cannot find another answer. For these reasons I announce Brothers of Italy's vote against Article 26. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u203	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 27, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u204	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u205	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u206	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.1, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 27.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.3 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 27.0.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.2, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 29. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 30, on which amendment 30.1 was tabled, which was subsequently withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 30. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 31, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u207	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u208	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u209	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.2 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.3 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.5, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 31.6 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.7 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 31.8, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 31.9 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 31.10, tabled by Senator Pillon and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 31.11 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.12 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.0.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 32, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u210	Mr President, I am going back to the House on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u211	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u212	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 32.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 32.2, tabled by Senator Giarrusso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 32.3 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 32.4 and 32.5 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 32.6 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 32.7, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 32. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 33, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u213	Mr President, I am going back to the House on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u214	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u215	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.1 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 33.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 33.3 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 33.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 33. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 34. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 35, on which amendment 35.1 was tabled, which was subsequently withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 35. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 35.0.1, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 35, which is intended to be explained and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u216	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u217	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u218	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 35.0.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 36, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u219	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u220	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u221	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 36.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 36.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 36. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 37. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 38, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u222	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u223	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u224	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 38.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 38. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 38.0.1 and 38.0.2 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 39. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 40, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u225	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u226	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u227	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.1, tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.2 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.3 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 40.4 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.5 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.7 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.8 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.9 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.10 tabled by Senators Balboni and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 40. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 41. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 42. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 43. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u228	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-440.ana.u229	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.53.
