ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 22 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2653, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u5	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to read the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u6	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to begin with a simple word: abstentionism. It is a word that is frightening the parties, but it should frighten all citizens, all politicians, because it indicates the failure of politics. When the Italian people do not vote, in fact, it means that someone has failed and often and willingly the citizens do not vote because they no longer feel represented. We are talking about participatory democracy, even deliberative democracy today, but in Italy democracy no longer exists, because citizens do not vote, because they are moving away from politics, which is an important thing, is synonymous with freedom. I therefore ask, in the name of democracy, for some clarification. Why has Article 6, which exempts certain parties from the collection of signatures, been added to the decree-law under consideration? We have an important proposal to extend the provisions of this article also to parties that have received 2 per thousand in the last year. I ask why we must not be afraid of dealing with all the citizens who are not reflected in the party fence that you want to create, a bipolarism that is nothing more than a inclusion of citizens in two concepts and not giving other parties the opportunity to express their opinion, their electoral programme. I say this forcefully and even Berlusconi said it: the mayors elected in this electoral round cannot be said to be representative of the people; they are delegitimized and limited in their action. So I strongly ask and appeal to the President of the Republic, so that all parties that have the qualifications that I have previously expressed, i.e. those that I receive the 2 per thousand, can compete without collecting the signatures. I do not say this because we are afraid, but because there can be no children and stepchildren, because Article 6 is a dress sewn for some parties and for some political components. This is not admissible: either all or none! I repeat, this is not democracy, but it is fear of confronting all the party and political realities present in Italy. So, in the name of democracy, freedom and courage to face the popular vote, I call for an extension of this measure, otherwise you have failed, because you have received a party victory but not a political one. Rule a city with four votes is not worthy of a parliamentary republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u9	Mr. President, [[Brusio]] If there were a little less confusion in this House, it would be good for everyone. I would like to make a brief comment on the decree-law under consideration, whose deadline for conversion is imminent, aware that we are discussing a measure relating to an electoral appointment that has already been celebrated, that is, that of the local elections - am I right, Senator Gallone? - together with the referendary appointment. [[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues to make less "market," apologizing for the use of this term. Mr President, if it were true that any measure taken by Parliament should aim to increase the participation of our fellow citizens in electoral appointments, then I regret to say so, although it belongs to the majority and is aware that the measure under consideration will be voted by me and my parliamentary group: this decree-law has not achieved its objective. Mr Calderoli, you can confirm that participation in the vote in the last local elections and, worse still, in the referendum was in fact a flop. This was above all the theme addressed by the comments of the political leaders. Senator Caliendo, I know you share my analysis. Am I right? I am therefore absolutely certain that, unfortunately, the objective has not been achieved. For example, the reasons that led to the election meeting being held in one day are honestly unclear to me. Think that the decree-law under consideration was brought to the examination for the conversion, at first reading, to the Chamber of Deputies, when the vote had already been celebrated. Today it seems to be talking about prehistory, since even the ballots have been celebrated. Maybe we should stay here and comment on the outcome of the vote and maybe it would be more interesting, Senator Caliendo. I do not do that, because it does not seem to me the right place or the right place, even if I would like to do so, given some of the results that I consider to be flattering for my political formation. What I am saying, however, is that this decree-law contains measures which have not grasped the objective of democratic participation in the vote, which in my opinion is the subject of the issues. The disaffection of citizens to electoral appointments is not a good thing for the freedom and democratic organization of a country that instead characterized itself and characterized itself, in the Second World War, for a large participation in the vote, much wider than that of many other countries, as free and democratic as ours. The Italians showed that they were close to the vote; today we register a decline. There is even someone who says, in television debates, that we should not be surprised, because in countries like the United States of America, where there have been freedom and democracy for two centuries, participation in the vote is reduced to bone: we are talking about 20 to 30% of American citizens who go to vote to choose their representatives in the Chambers and their President of the Republic. On the contrary, I think that this decline is an issue that the political class must identify and address, because it is a symptom of a new disaffection to the vote. This new disaffection to the vote corresponds to a new disaffection to the politics and on this subject the current political formations must confront each other inside and among them, first of all in this place, where it seems clear to me that what I am saying is absolutely not of interest to our colleagues. [[Applause]] But I understand that listening to Senator Pagano maybe has little meaning and little importance, at least for someone. Not for my colleague Franco Dal Mas, who is one of my greatest admirers (and I thank him for that). I shall conclude my brief speech by saying that this is a wake-up call. I have introduced this issue into the general discussion on this decree-law and I do not think I have come out of the matter; I believe that the subject was precisely that of better regulating electoral appointments. I must introduce, Mr Boccardi, something which is not secondary to what I say. An amendment was introduced, voted and adopted at first reading in the House of Deputies, which has nothing to do with this issue. Yes, in the broadest sense we are talking about elections; but a legislative intervention that introduces different ways for the presentation of lists to the political elections, you tell me, President Calderoli, that he is a great expert in constitutional and electoral matters, what does he have to do with it? Honestly nothing. Then I say one thing to you and I take responsibility for my statements: this type of measure, which simplifies the collection of signatures for the submission of lists related to political groups that were born in Parliament before 31 December 2021, is a sin of at least two problems. I mean it; I do not say it on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, but on my own behalf. The first is the timing: time was wrong. You are more experienced than I am, President Calderoli, and I think you agree that introducing this rule now creates a problem, however, linked to unequal treatment between those who formed Groups before or after 31 December 2021. I say this now, not because I feel like Cassandra, but because of the political formations that came into Parliament later (I am also talking about recent news). At least timing (I use an Anglo-Saxon term) is wrong. The second question is that the Rules of Procedure adopted in the last parliamentary term, which obviously is so close to the heart of Vice-President Calderoli, who today takes over the presidency of this House, should have tended to limit and curb the fragmentation of the Groups and the dispersion of elected parliamentarians in various quarters. During this parliamentary term, given the very obnoxious attitude of a part of the Italian electorate, which changes parties as you change jackets and pants, this has become a theme. That Regulation was designed to limit the "changes of the coat" as the journalists define them. Well, to introduce in this measure the legitimacy of the "change of office" screams and clearly contrasts with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure and with the statements of principle that should be the basis of each political formation that comes to the electoral rounds. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to say a lot and I have said it, but I belong to this majority, so I think it is right to approve this bill on things that have been done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u10	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2653, converting Decree-Law No 41 of 4 May 2022 into the text of the 1st Commission, identical to that approved by the House of Deputies. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u12	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 41, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.51 a.m. and resumed at 5.48 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u13	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussion on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law in the matter of local elections and referendums, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In today's sitting we will go straight to the explanations of vote and follow it. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting includes explanations of vote and the final vote on the draft Constitutional Law on Sport in Constitution, at the end of which the proceedings of the Assembly and the Commissions will be suspended, at the request of a parliamentary group. The meeting will resume at 2 p.m. and until 3 p.m. for the joint general discussion of the draft law of the European delegation 2021 and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union. Follow-up to the discussion of these measures will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders convened at 4 p.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u14	We proceed to the vote on the single article of bill n. 2653, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 41, 4 May 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u17	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, the most earnest desire to avoid polemics is disassembled whenever and on every occasion we become aware of new news. I now learn, at the end of the Conference of the Leaders, from the President of our Opposition Group, that a letter from the Group Presidents of the Forces who support the Government to President Casellati would be sent - and so far nothing objectionable - to the behaviour of the State Accountant when ratifying the Decree-Law on the PNRR. In view of this, it seems - Mr President, I believe you can give me further confirmation - that the President would have replied only to the Presidents of the majority in order to ensure an intervention with the Government. Now, if I can understand that members of the majority are interested in joining forces in joint action, as is politically absolutely legitimate, I do not understand how the presidency of the Senate can act only on behalf of and on behalf of the majority itself. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: [[Applause]] , or let's say that there is a clear and clear desire to marginalize dissent, because once it is the President of the Senate who does what he has to do only with the majority, once it is the amendments put in the margins of a decree-law that concerns elections that have already taken place, with which we want to guarantee the exemption from the collection of signatures for the next elections. [[Applause]] We must also make it clear, Mr President, that the position of the matter of trust today is something shameful, allow me the term, perhaps little indicated. 23 amendments have been tabled, which - I can testify as a member of this House - would have been exhausted in ten minutes. Everything has been cancelled to prevent the opposition of this country from having the other members tell us that we will be required to collect signatures while the other parties - I do not know whether smaller or larger - do not allow me to make approximate surveys, I only know that they have parties that have the same conformation as ourselves, if not smaller, because we are 13, President, but I do not know how many representatives of the Calenda Group are here - will not have the commitment to have to collect signatures. [[Applause]] Not to mention all the other occasions, the media aspect. We wrote - Senator Barachini, President of the Rai Supervisory Commission, is a witness - three letters to the Rai Presidency because, according to the law, half of that 30% of communication space is attributed to the opposition, while the other half of it is of course up to the Brothers of Italy, whom I officially consider opposition and then in fact we all saw that it is not. We would like that 15% of space that we have at least on public television; not only do we not have it, but we do not even have the opportunity to have a meeting with the Rai leadership in order to express our will to make a contribution: the unique thought is the only thing that does not serve this country. We are against the one thought, Mr President, and we hope that people like you, who have fought for years against this anti-democratic drift, will allow us to have equal treatment. We demand nothing more and nothing less than equal treatment than the other opposition parties and above all the citizens who listen to us and want to see freedom guaranteed in these very high chambers that represent all of them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u20	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law today is made up of nine articles and contains emergency rules which ensured that the referendums provided for in Article 75 of the Constitution were held regularly in conjunction with the first round of the local elections. We know today that everything has gone well, the votes have taken place in a regular manner and, therefore, after the electoral consultations on 12 June and the last of 24 June, we can really say that the measures provided for in the measure have worked. The measure in question contains provisions aimed at allowing the full exercise of the right to vote by all citizens by means of operational arrangements identifying appropriate precautionary measures for further prevention of the risk of coronavirus contagion. In this sense, I summarize briefly, Article 1 of the decree-law which, by way of derogation from the previous legislation, requires the deposit of the card in the ballot box to be made directly by the voter. So in fact we have seen the operations carried out. The ratio of this provision is obvious and is to minimise any contact occasion to contain the spread of the virus. Article 2 of the Decree-Law instead intervenes, always by way of derogation from the previous legislation, establishing that for the common requirements, for the operation of the electoral offices of section and for the times of the vote the provisions in force for the referendum apply. This is also an important rule because it has simplified the exercise of the vote. Also on the side of the prevention of contagion, Article 3 of the measure, which introduces a special discipline for the establishment of hospital electoral sections in the health facilities that host Covid departments and for the collection of the vote of Covid patients in home treatment or in isolation conditions, is significant and important. For voters subject to home treatment or in isolation conditions for Covid, pursuant to Article 4, the home exercise of the vote has been arranged. Article 5 instead refers to health and safety protocols already signed by the Ministries of Interior and Health which provide for precise rules of caution such as the obligation of the mask and gloves. This article also had the merit of setting up a fund of almost EUR 40 million for 2022 for the cleaning and hygiene of seats. With articles 6 and 6- bis instead the number of signatures necessary for the submission of nominations is reduced also to the Chamber and the Senate, albeit under certain conditions, such as having formed, for example, a parliamentary group in one of the two Chambers by 2021 or in both from the beginning of the legislature. The Government's choice to postpone the introduction of digital voting testing to 2023 was also balanced. The study was financed by this measure. We are, however, in the presence of a very complex and sensitive issue, especially in terms of security from cyber attacks; the serious international situation requires caution and prudence. In fact, several critical issues have emerged and therefore the need to proceed to a more in-depth risk assessment activity, which is most appropriate in this particular historical moment with the Ukrainian crisis. (At 6 p.m.) (Follow Evangelista). Of course, we know that the digital vote would solve the problem of the vote of Italians abroad, the problem of young people studying abroad, but also the problem of participation in referendums, which we have unfortunately seen to be very modest. Finally, I would like to mention Article 7 of the measure which concerns the vote of Italians abroad. The previous legislation provides that all the obligations inherent in the electoral operations are carried out by the court of appeal of Rome. This involves no longer sustainable burdens and logistical difficulties, given the large increase in the number of Italians voting abroad. In this way, it was considered to distribute the debris of the ballots among several court of appeal, such as Naples, Florence, Bologna and Milan. However, the revision of the vote by correspondence is still a very topical issue, because, as we have seen in the Assembly for Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in the Senate, it does not guarantee the outcome and it presents distortions that should be corrected. It is precisely the logic of correspondence voting that needs to be changed. We must therefore consider a forthcoming speech on this subject, without taking into account that such a way of holding a vote abroad greatly affects our embassies, our consulates, the diplomatic network and also our presence in foreign countries. Finally, Mr President, with a more political view: the referendums have probably shown, not only from the point of view of the outcome they have given, but also from the point of view of participation in the vote, which is very modest, that they are an instrument that absolutely must be reviewed. In particular, it is necessary to lower the quorum; in this regard I would like to remind you that already the Italian Viva Group had proposed in 2016 to lower the quorum for the validity of the repealing referendums to 50% plus one of those who participated in the last political elections, taking as the reference of the electoral body for the calculation of quorum participation in the last parliamentary elections. It is also necessary to encourage more participation in the vote (and think about the digital vote that will be studied), but we could also allow citizens to use the referendum tool not only to repeal rules, but also to propose legislative solutions or to influence the regulations that are the subject of the referendum questions. For all these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the measure under consideration by the Italian Socialist Group Viva-Partito Italiano and I thank the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u23	Mr Malan (FdI). Madam President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, one thing can be said with certainty about this decree-law: it has been carried out unseriously and the lack of seriousness on institutional issues is indeed serious. Let's begin with its drafting: this decree-law is of May 4 and intervenes on the very delicate electoral matter. This is not the first time that electoral decrees are written, but I remember that in the past, when there were no governments that called themselves "the best," with a prestigious President of the Council that the world envies us (not to mention the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health that the world is very happy that we have and that it does not go elsewhere), the electoral decrees were agreed with everyone, including the opposition. Today the opposition is very narrow, it is a small part of the Senate, a small part of Parliament, but from the statements we heard during the campaign both for the local elections and for the referendum, we have to conclude that there was no agreement even within the forces of the majority, because I have heard observations - quite rightly, and that we have perfectly shared - from very high representatives of both Forza Italia and the League, who criticized a number of choices made, first of all on the date of these consultations. From this it can be deduced that even within the majority there has been the seriousness and the institutional correctness of agreeing, at least within this majority, the content of an extremely delicate measure, because intervening by decree-law on electoral rules, albeit secondary, is an issue that has always been addressed in the past with due correctness and caution. I am referring to the criticisms that have been made of having chosen as the first Sunday of the administrative consultations and the only Sunday of the referendary round, the first Sunday with the schools closed in a very hot time of the year, with a great invitation to people to go elsewhere, to enjoy this first Sunday of vacation, without children having to wake up early on Monday, and not to go to vote. This is a very serious matter, because it is a referendum. In addition, we have returned to vote in one day, after, during the previous two years of emergency, Covid had voted in two days. Moreover, the emergency still exists for health care and many other categories or for the masks on the means of transport; in this case, instead, the emergency is not there and you can very well vote in one day, while in the past, from 1946 to 2013, it had always been voted in two days. This time we voted in a single day, just to say to the people: stay away, that justice must not be touched, because the order came to us, which, however, contrasted with the intentions of some forces of the majority, including the League, which had promoted the collection of signatures, then became a collection of resolutions of the Regional Councils, to which also Brothers of Italy participated. But that is not enough. The decree-law is of May 4 and, since it was voted on June 12, there was all the time to do as in the past it was done, that is to arrive at the time of the vote by a decree-law converted into law. Let us not forget, in fact, that the decree-law should be a measure to be adopted in the event of extraordinary necessity and urgency and that, in the event that it encounters the rejection of Parliament, it would decay in its effectiveness from the outset, with enormous institutional problems being, precisely, elections. In fact, we have been pushed to the opposite end, so even the House examined this measure in the House when it was first voted on 12 June. We come here today that we have also voted in the second round: a truly incredible thing that shows sloppyness and I would almost say an ostentatious contempt for institutional correctness, which is extremely dangerous because this contempt for constitutional rules, for fairness and for Parliament as a whole has all the air of being wanted. Then, as if that were not enough, we introduce norms - some from the beginning, even in the original text - which have nothing to do with the matter of the decree-law and its characteristic of urgency. The decree-law, in its title, refers only to rules for the simultaneous conduct of local elections and referendums, as well as for the application of operational, precautionary and security procedures for the collection of votes. Well, in Article 6 (3) there is a rule concerning the general elections, which apparently have not yet been convened - even if we would like to - and which we read are being done even in May next year, with the longest parliamentary term ever, at the constitutional limits. There is therefore no necessity and urgency and there is no relevance to what should be the text of the decree-law, so there was already extraneousness of matter from the beginning. As if that were not enough, Article 6a is introduced, in which some political forces are privileged which will be exempted from voting. This is not scandalized; we have no particular opposition to the fact that other political forces can participate in the vote, but it has been done in a totally disproportionate way, taking advantage of the monocameralism that, in fact, against the Constitution, the Government has made a granite rule that can never be overcome, favouring the House over the Senate, so that only one elected to the Chamber is worth more than one Group to the Senate, a totally irrational thing. It follows that, if we vote soon and apply them without corrective measures - which I hope there are on the other hand because of the fairness and fairness of the elections - these rules, really arriving at the elections, there would be a risk of an appeal for inconstitutionality that does not resolve in two days because of the obvious unreasonableness of the norm. As a single Member does, he is worth more than 13 senators who make up a group. It is an irrational thing, which has nothing to do with sympathy or dislike towards this or that Group; on the contrary, it is a matter of having respect for the solemn moment of the elections. However, since rules have also been introduced in this measure concerning the elections, we take the opportunity to say that it would be time to vote, because it would also be good if voters could say theirs. I recall that, when President Scalfaro dissolved Parliament in 1994 to vote, he did so on the basis of the authoritative opinion of a great constitutionalist, Professor Zagrebelsky, who said that, when Parliament deviates significantly, even if we do not extend, from the electoral representation, there are all the justifications for resolving Parliament and going to new elections. Well, I would say that all the electoral consultations tell us that the present Parliament is not representative of the electoral reality. I'll add a thought. As if that were not enough, trust was also placed. Another madness: there were 15 amendments, perhaps 18, of which six, judged impossible, were actually much more proposable than that amendment, introduced to the House, concerning the collection of signatures for political elections, not even mentioned in the title of this measure, which have no characteristic of necessity and urgency. Instead of examining these amendments, trust is placed, because it is now compulsive. I've heard, but I'm not gonna tell who, who looks like there's some kind of addiction to trust. They didn't put it on once. I'm in withdrawal crisis now. Colleagues, you need a little respect. I will conclude with a notation. In Article 6, paragraph 3, an extension of this experiment of electronic voting is unduly introduced, outside the scope of the provision. When this concerns Italians abroad, we are in favour, because the current voting methods for Italians abroad are such that neither secrecy nor fairness are guaranteed. Therefore, if there is any way to fix this, please come along. Perhaps we need to rethink the matter more systematically, but we can accept it. As for all the other situations, let's go very slowly. And we ask the government to explain every detail of the expression of this vote, because we want it to count the vote of voters and not those who count the vote, as Stalin said, that the suppression of democracy was meant to be. Let's go very slowly, then. We will vote against this decree-law, for the manner in which it was presented, which goes against all correctness and respect of the forms and substance of our institutions and our nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u26	MANCA (PD). Mr President, it is natural for the Democratic Party to confirm its confidence in this Government. With affection and friendship I say to my colleague, Senator Malan, that the Constitution reminds us that we vote every five years, as a rule. And before us, before the elections, comes the need to secure the country. If we want to restore credibility to Parliament and politics, rather than calling for elections in the face of every poll, I think it is right for politics to address the problems of Italian workers, businesses and families. [[Applause]] I say this because the Constitution needs to read it all. This decree-law, precisely because of its urgency characteristics, has already governed the local elections and the referendum of 12 June and has therefore already developed in its entirety the actions contained in it. I believe that all this shows that the decree has been used consistently to better regulate the local elections and the important institution of the referendum, which has already taken place. Therefore, in this House, with great seriousness and with great responsibility, we must affirm the merit of this measure. Emergency rules have been adopted to regulate local elections, referendums and to facilitate access to the vote. As we have seen, it is not with a decree-law that we recover and reduce our distance with the citizens and that we return credibility to politics. In order to restore credibility to politics, institutions also need strong, strong, authoritative parties able to reconnect, even with priorities in their relationship with the country. There are no shortcuts. We too consider the referendum to be a particularly important institution and not just because it is provided for in our Constitution, but because it allows citizens to express themselves on important issues. It is, however, up to politics to stress its importance and to make them live in the relationship with our community. Perhaps, if we all tried together to look at the real country, to try in every way to reconnect our initiatives, to identify the priorities and the times with which these priorities are developed, this would be the main way to rebuild a fruitful relationship and reduce the distance between us and the citizens. It is not done by decree-law and it is not done by means of rules which do not serve to express their views on the electoral outcome; I have even heard in this House a desire for subsequent debates on the outcome of the votes. The decree-law in question must be approved in these ways, with these characteristics, because it has already explained its effects and because perhaps the policy is more credible if it closes this story and does so without being able to introduce further elements of distance with the citizens, who would not understand what we are talking about today. For the Democratic Party this is the horizon, the fundamental point. It is up to us, politics, the parties to be able to connect with the citizens in defining the priorities and actions needed. First I reminded my colleague Malan that first for us come the families, the Italian companies, the country and it is fundamental the reference to the priorities, precisely in order to rebuild a fruitful relationship with the citizens. The more this majority and this Parliament can respond to this request, the more we will be able to rebuild a fruitful report. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u27	Colleagues, we have also significantly exceeded the level of guard in order to be able to follow the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u28	MANCA (PD). Mr President, the rules introduced in one of the very sensitive subjects that refer to the general elections of 2023 on how to collect signatures and therefore on the exemption from the collection of signatures, which photograph a very different scenario than that of the 2018 elections, have been introduced not without reasons. Certainly, in fact, the photograph of 2018-2019 is no longer consistent with the parliamentary composition, which today has also contributed electorally to the definition of the seats and the majority that represents them. We therefore continue to believe that it is the citizen who has to assess, that it is appropriate to build fewer barriers in the submission of applications and that the rules become as much as possible shared. It is likely that further changes will be needed, and for us in the Democratic Party this is not a taboo; the fundamental element for which this confidence is being discussed today is to make a mechanism of conversion consistent with a need for confirmation of the text approved in the House, which is fundamental in order to be able to regulate as best as possible what has already happened in the local elections and the institution of the referendum. I therefore announce the PD Group's vote in favour. We will reaffirm our confidence in the awareness that the real country is the fundamental element to look at in order to rebuild a positive connection between Italian politics, institutions and citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u31	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, in fact, I think it is a coercion to put the question of trust in the conversion of this decree-law, which, as we know, has already carried out all its effects, with the exception of the question of signatures for the submission of lists, on which I will then return. So, as we all know, the decree-law under consideration is a sort of due act, which made itself absolutely necessary, all the more so now that the elections are over, we have done the ballots and we have had the whole debate on the electoral outcomes. It is a measure simply forced by the pandemic and the contagions, which unfortunately are rising and therefore from the necessary precautions. Another effect that has already manifested itself, even before the election results of the local elections, has been their combination with the referendum. This is an indication contained in the White Paper presented to us by Mr D'Incà on abstentionism: the figures for the truth are, however, uncomfortable, demonstrating that abstentionism, which has reached remarkable levels of guard in the first round, in the referendum and in the ballots, is obviously an issue that cannot be considered to be dealt with only with technical measures, but it is absolutely political. This issue also concerns the referendum, on which we must ask ourselves whether the questions concern issues heard by the citizens. The referendum should perhaps also be dealt with by means of amendments concerning the quorum. As far as the elections are concerned, the figure of abstentionism is, in my view, closely related to the ability to involve citizens and to the fact that there is, of course, a strong distrust of the projects that are being put on the ground most of the time. This disaffection is something that should make us reflect on the state of health of our democracy. In fact, it is not good for democracy and participation in the vote that we continue, continuously and constantly, in our Parliamentary Assembly, even when there is no need, as in this case, to put the question of trust. The deterioration of Parliament's role is in my view one of the elements of mistrust, although certainly not the only one, towards the institutions and disaffection towards politics and its most important moment, which is that of voting. So we need more than a series of technical measures to reduce abstentionism. Let's think about the data reported today from all the newspapers, because these days we have had the bare and raw numbers of the various passages from one Group to another that have been there in this legislature, which are from record. I believe that this is the parliamentary term in which the highest number of MEPs have passed from the Group in which they have been elected to another and then perhaps have also made further changes: this is also an element that does not help the credibility of the institutions nor the citizens to return with more confidence to the vote. All of this really deserves some thought, and I think that Parliament's classrooms should be the place to hold this debate, between us and with the citizens, in a public debate, of which Parliament will once again be the protagonist. I think it would be absolutely appropriate to do that. There are other issues in this decree-law that have made much discussion. I am referring to the question of exemption from the collection of signatures. I believe that no one should be afraid that lists will appear. I find that all the rules and rules that they have presided over and which govern the presentation of the lists, and which are exempted or modified according to the pressures, are a legacy of the past and are also due a bit to the will of the insiders not to involve those who are still outside. In my view, we should address this issue very seriously and with great rationality; I believe that all these bureaucratic obstacles should be removed or that at least the possibility for citizens should be facilitated, as is the case with civic lists in the local elections, to share a project together and to present themselves at the elections. I therefore believe that we should find a way to return to this point. As it is written, the norm contained in this decree-law was made only in the image and likeness of the House and is frankly very questionable. If you have a group in the Senate, you still collect signatures; if you have a group in the House, then you don't collect signatures. It's an odd rule, which couldn't stand up to any serious analysis. But what does this prove? It shows, once again, that this matter of signatures and derogations occurs in all the legislatures, as we approach the end of the legislature and then the end of the new elections, depending on who is pressing. In this case, since she left the Chamber, the pressure groups had concentrated in the Chamber and the norm took a certain form. This is absolutely not right. I am convinced that we must review all the rules governing the presentation of lists, in the sense of being a little more rational and facilitating them, because this is also a way of helping citizens to participate more and therefore is an important tool for bringing our democracy back to life, which is not doing well (this we must know). We have been living in this situation for a long time now: we do not want to tackle the node of the electoral law and we do not want to deal with many other issues, we come to the elections with a programme and then we do other governments. These are all elements which clearly do not support strong participation in the vote. We really should tackle these issues once and for all and seriously. Having made these reflections, aroused by the interventions and of course also by the decree-law, I announce the vote favorable to the confidence of the senators of LEU-Ecosolidali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u34	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sincerely embarrassed to take the floor in an explanation of vote on a measure which, moreover, has already made clear its effects (so it is posthumous ratification) and which comes to us after the local elections (for which it was intended) and after the round of ballots. In the Commission, despite the submission of some 20 amendments, this measure has not been obstructed by the opposition. So coming to this House to put trust is a fall in style and also a lack of respect for the majority that supports this Government. [[Applause]] , because it means that you don't trust this majority. It is a very wrong thing because we have been suffering for some time not to say of the angeries, but the obstruction by the ministerial bureaucracy, an extension of the times, because opinions are not coming, and today we also have confidence in measures - allow me to say the term - which are insignificant from the political point of view: it really means that this Parliament has only become a paperweight and I regret this, because they are among those who have convincedly supported the need, at a particular and delicate moment for our country, for a government of national responsibility, but I see that we are being repaid with a currency that we certainly did not deserve. I hope that there will be a change of pace between now and the end of the parliamentary term. [[Applause]] , because I do not know how long it will be possible to abuse the patience and sense of responsibility of Members. Having said that, the decree-law in question issued urgent measures at the time of the local elections and referendums, in view of an emerging state far from finished, as regards the modalities for the expression of the vote, the modalities for the sanitization of the seats, for the presentation of the lists (reduction of signatures only for these elections), the allowances, the electoral college and so on. However, there are two elements that are not extraordinary: the first is the creation in the Courts of Appeal of Milan, Bologna, Florence, Rome and Naples of centres for voting districts and abroad; the second, as has already been said, is the insertion of an amendment to the Chamber that allows the Groups formed by 31 December 2021 or that in any case have participated in the elections electing at least one Member, not to collect signatures. I would like to say one very simple thing: this decree-law lacks an act of courage, that is, it always refers to an experimentation of digitalization of electronic voting, which now exists in all democratic countries and of which we must not be absolutely afraid, first of all starting from the vote for Italians abroad, which is what creates the most problems and contrasts, and which engages our Junta more for the elections. Another thing that I consider negative is the fact that I have returned once again to the question of the time frame in which the vote is to be carried out: one day it seems very little to me, especially in a period that is the antechamber of summer, a season in which Italians actually think about going to the sea rather than exercising a right-duty. I also want to add something to the famous abstentionism. He took advantage of this decree-law to talk about abstentionism and it was said that the fault is of the Italians who have no sense of responsibility, who delegate, who do not want to go to vote. Madam President, I believe that, rather than making sociological and psychological analyses of Italian voters, politics must make a healthy and self-critical introspective about itself. I do not know how much Italians can go to vote and rekindle the enthusiasms by watching a show of continuous divisions, of change of the coat, of return to their own positions and anything else, to the extent that they believe that the vote that is expressed is of no use at all. You vote because you marry a program and a project, but that vote is used to do anything else. I believe that, before we engage in these sociological assessments, politics must make a serious self-criticism. With regard to those colleagues who rightly complain that a rule has been inserted, which had nothing to do with this decree-law because it concerned the general elections, with which some groups that formed themselves by 31 December 2021 are saved, I say that we must be calm: it seems absolutely necessary and necessary that either in financial maneuvering or in the so-called multi-pronged measure these solutions can also be healed. In fact, I believe that the greater the political offer that is offered to Italians, the greater the possibility that Italians rediscover the vote and the taste of going to vote. In this decree-law, it has been done for those parties and for those groups that had formed by 31 December 2021, but I believe that on a next occasion and in any case before the political vote we can also give the possibility to those who on 31 December 2021 had absolutely neither in mind to create a Group, nor to create a formation, but who today have realized it, to present regularly, in equal weapons, and to present their programs to the Italians. [[Applause]] I believe that this is the minimum of respect for the rules against all. Personally, I deal with justice and I speak daily not only for my profession, but also for political activity, with the citizens and I assure you that I do not find anyone who is satisfied with our justice, his time, endless enforcement procedures, endless bankruptcy procedures, criminal trials, the ease with which he is subject to precautionary measures. Yet, when there are referendums, only 20% of Italians vote. It seems to me, therefore, that our people are now resigned, that they need an electroshock and I believe that it is the task of a sound and serious policy to implement it. I am not shocked if you change parties and you change positions, when these changes underlie a project, a program, a collective interest, but they see me a little less agreeable when they tend to defend a status quo, to represent a partisan interest, a personal interest that even collides with the public interest. I hope that you will take advantage of the experience we are experiencing in these last elections. In the other countries, however, no one is scandalized if he goes to vote 20 to 30% of the voters, but in our country, which has a long tradition of very high percentages of voters in the general elections and especially in the local elections, see today that more than half of those entitled to vote prefer not to exercise the vote I think it is not a good thing to see. Having made these clarifications and with these wishes, Madam President, also because by now this decree-law has explained the effects for which it had been thought, and with the clarifications I made at the beginning on the relationship between the Government and Parliament in general and between the Government and its majority in particular, I announce the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u37	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will speak briefly to declare the vote on behalf of my Group, because we are - not for the first time - faced with a somewhat surreal situation, I would say even embarrassing. We are called today to decide how to do some things, but they have already happened. With the decree-law that we are called to convert we should decide how the ballot box should be inserted into the urn, how many signatures it takes to submit a list to the local elections, how the seats should be sanitized and I could continue indefinitely. It's all happened before. This can only depress Parliament's role even more. I can tell you that we are at second reading and that now, with mono-cameralism in fact, the second reading is a bureaucratic passage, but in reality the first reading in the House has taken place at things already done, after the Sunday of voting of the referendum and the first round. We are even dealing with this decree-law after the ballots have already taken place and this is not good. I repeat, it is not good, it is serious because, Mr President, if Parliament had been involved, and there was a way and time to do so, since, as some colleagues have pointed out before, the decree-law is from the first days of May and therefore there were even forty days to be able to examine and intervene, we could have helped the government to avoid certain figures. Let us think, for example, of the masks in the seats. I recall briefly the question: three days or four days before the vote a circular of the Ministries of Interior and Health on health protocols provided for the masks within the voting sections. Attention, not within the seats, buildings and schools, but within the sections it was sent to the presidents to check. An obnoxious; I assume that many of you have gone to vote sometime and we know well therefore that the assembly is out, not when you enter one at a time in the voting section. [[Applause]] Those who have written this rule can therefore at least be accused of institutional ignorance. The beauty is that these masks were delivered to the seats by the Government, they arrived to the prefectures, the prefectures sent them to the municipalities and the latter to the voting sections. Well, this little game cost citizens EUR 6 million. Masks which, at last, were no longer necessary, but were bought and distributed; so we think not only about the living cost of matter, but also about all the work that has been done. Who's paying? Do you always pay Pants or pay Minister Lamorgese and Minister Hope? [[Applause]] I would like to point out another politically much more serious issue: the choice to vote only on Sundays. The Government, indeed the Presidency of the Council, in recent months has done an excellent job with a committee of experts and has produced the White Paper on abstentionism entitled "For the participation of citizens." How to reduce abstentionism and facilitate voting. Some ways of encouraging participation and reducing abstentionism are identified by the Government. President, do you know what is the first and most important? Vote in two days. This is what the government says: to reduce abstentionism, it is necessary to vote on Sunday and Monday. What does Minister Lamorgese do? We only vote on Sundays. It is not a choice dictated by other reasons, by other logics, I can not possibly avoid the costs of the scruters. No, the government knows that voting on two days reduces abstentionism and therefore the government or rather Minister Lamorgese decides to vote in one day just to facilitate abstentionism and reduce the possibility of reaching quorum in the referendum. [[Applause]] Political choice, which I would not have expected from a minister who declares himself technical. But now Minister Lamorgese is no surprise at a number of things. Just to say one, where is it? There is one measure of yours in this House, but the Minister is not there. Although I am worthyly represented by the Undersecretary, whom I thank for the cooperation, presence and help he has given us in the Commission, I would have expected to see the Minister here and not to see him only when President Draghi is here, for sitting by his side for the photos. [[Applause]] I would have expected Minister Lamorgese to hear from his voice some explanation of what happened in Palermo; directly or indirectly it is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior if the electoral machine does not work and in Palermo it did not work. He must also explain why, unlike what other colleagues from other countries might have done, he chose not to resign for what happened. Anyway, nothing surprises us anymore. Mr Lamorgese does little, if nothing, is as firm, motionless and static as a traffic light at a crossroads; green light for the illegals, red light for all about democracy. [[Applause]] In conclusion, Mr President, we are voting in favour of this confidence only because of institutional duty and, on the substance of the matter, so that the effects of the decree-law do not lapse. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u40	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, before I move on to the explanation of vote, I would like to dedicate a brief passage from my speech to stigmatize the vote of confidence on this measure, remembering that it is a measure of eight articles and a regulatory scope concerning something already defined for 80-90 percent - the local elections and the five referendum questions - and that trust is an important moment for our democracy, for Parliament and for the government to hold. It is a time when the government puts its face on it and, if Parliament gives it a majority again, it is allowed to move forward. Putting face on a measure of this kind, so bland and above all already past, because it is part of the story creates some concern. I hope that these considerations, rightly anticipated by other colleagues too, can and can be avoided by putting confidence in measures that are quite different from the last one approved with confidence, which was the one on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan which consisted of 50 articles and investments for I do not know how many tens of billions. [[Applause]] Nevertheless, we will also vote for confidence in this micro-provision, basically because it contains two important arguments: the first is how to ensure secure voting operations; the second, no less important, is to have merged the local elections with the referendum. Let us remember that this last choice has not only saved several million euros, but is one of the passages contained in the White Paper on abstentionism, which has been published recently, in which it is said that among the ways to bring more people to vote, with a problem of abstentionism as big as a house, is precisely to make election day and round up the elections. Abstentionism: we have repeated this a lot in this House and we all know that the legitimacy of the institutions all passes through the participation of voters in the vote. Without this participation in the serious vote (not 40% or one voter out of three), if we do not get to this participation we question the same constitutional principles on which our democracy is founded, even that principle of popular sovereignty enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution. If you go to vote for one out of three Italians, we are facing - be patient - a democracy with limited or crippled popular sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen. Another issue that I want to address with regard to this decree-law concerns a passage for us important, always connected with abstentionism: the digital vote. Here, however, we must stress that there are some chiaroscuros: a small light is there when, in article 6, paragraph 3, it is said that the study is refinanced by the Viminale for the digital vote. At the same time it is said that the experimentation of the digital vote is for the Italians out of office (there are millions of Italians out of office who are in the Italian territory but outside the seat where there is their electoral seat) and the Italians abroad, also millions, I think about 10% of the electoral body. Therefore, in the budget maneuver the Movimento 5 Stars has approved a nice amendment that says that the Viminale begins to make this in-depth study on the experimental digital voting methods for Italians abroad: another way to fight abstentionism. [[Applause]] This delay, however, unfortunately, makes us understand that the activity that the Ministry is carrying out and not only (all the institutions and administrations involved) is inconclusive, because according to the latest news we are talking about referring to the umpteenth committee and we all know - but we must also know it outside this House - that when a committee or committee is created in politics it means sending the ball out of the field to carry out a problem that will never be solved. But we cannot pretend to act and we must say it clearly, but above all we must innovate, with the concreteness and novelty typical of digital voting. I am not referring, however, only to the digital vote, because we would already be ready today, but also yesterday, to digitize the electoral card and the electoral lists, and all those who deal with elections and the technicalities of the elections know how much critical we could cancel with the digitization of the electoral card, the so-called election pass; moreover, we are very accustomed to the passes, if we think about the green pass. It would be to have an app on the phone, without having to go looking for the card, without having to remember where it is or, in case it is not, to have it reprinted, spending money. As for the electoral lists, you could also vote around with your digital card. We can therefore allow ourselves to say that the voting methods present today in Italy are a little old-fashioned. [[Applause]] And, above all, that we've been stuck for about 30 years? And when is all this happening? At a time when we talk about web 3. In these minutes near here, in Montecitorio, the 5 Star Movimento is making a convention, an event on the metaverse. Oh, my God, what is this metaverse going to be? Will it be just for kids, for nerds? No, it's part of web 3. We are faced with a digital revolution that will change society in a few years - three, five or ten years from now. [[Applause]] At this point, I think that maybe a little bit of a peck forward should do it. Before concluding, I would like to turn to the five popular referendums which, dear friends, of people sincerely have nothing at all. In agreement with the agreement with the local elections, but they were consiliary referendums, promoted by nine regional councils, all center-right - we should remember - which for purely propagandistic reasons led the Italians not to vote, because there was no signature collected, as provided for in our Constitutional Charter. A promotion by the Regional Councils has been carried out and the historical minimum level of participation has been reached. In a very different way, things would have gone if the referendums had concerned the end of life and cannabis. [[Applause]] , on which two million signatures of Italian citizens were collected. I regret to recall this, but from none of the nine very good Presidents of the Region I have heard to apologize; for heaven's sake, we are now in the era of the Presidents of the Region very good, to the face of how they have managed the health care, not to mention the public money to private clinics, but we do not dwell on certain issues because you can absolutely not be polemics. In a normal country, since it was not the citizens who promoted referendums, but it was the politicians, I would have liked to hear an apology. [[Applause]] , also by Mr. Matteo Salvini who promoted them and then see maybe put hand to the portfolio to return the 50 million euros to the State that we spent on these referendums in which he voted one in five Italians, because probably, indeed, we could have better spent those sums in a sort of revisitation of that robbed Rome, I say ironically, that it could turn into a robbed region, but we do not talk about it absolutely. [[Applause. Comments]] In any case, while friends and colleagues are making comments on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, on the basis of these considerations which are not at all controversial and of these objective findings, I am voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u42	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u43	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Madam President, I feel like I am really watching a great Italian comedy. You're all embarrassed about this decree-law, but you couldn't even convince the government to treat it like a normal decree, with a discussion and with voting, however minimal, because it was then a shredded decree. You weren't even able to impose a little change of pace on the government, but then come here and make the sorry and embarrassed ones. In the end, this decree-law passes, although it is abundantly passed in cavalry, but there is a "poor", to make a Calderolian quote: an amendment manages to bypass the collection of signatures to some parties that, by chance, are the ones that form in an attempt to support Dragons and to stay inside the centrist part or that, however, do not disturb the system. Here, there you can safely derogate from the principle of collecting signatures. This would also be serious, because perhaps some parties, regularly registered in the party register and who already receive 2 per thousand, are and will be burdened by this effort, to participate in a whole new electoral competition, because I inform you that the next Parliament will be reduced, a new Parliament. It would therefore have been a great exercise in democracy, a word which was largely trampled underfoot before the eyes of this Parliament, to enable all regularly registered parties to face competition. But what is your fear? The fear of proving that someone barking at the system or someone who doesn't accept the autopilot, which you accepted, can take extra votes? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of democracy? I think so. That is why, in the end, you have all voted yes to this cowardly decree-law: because it has within that norm that is undemocratic. And I ask: does the President of the Republic have anything to say on this issue? Italexit will vote no.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u45	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u46	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-Iac (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, the previous Member of the Democratic Party said that he was used to voting in favour of the government. We in Italy at the Centre are too, and we would like not to lose our habit, but this time we will not vote in favour of the Government and this confidence. I would in fact like to qualify this decree-law with a term of constitutionalistic technique: it is a crap. And it is even more disgusting the method by which one wants to impose it. [[Applause]] A decree-law of this kind could pass safely without trust. I call on colleagues to look into the relationship between the inhabitants and the representation of senators abroad. And I remember participating in a working group, wanted by the government, for the reduction of abstentionism. This group has also produced a White Paper. Well, it seems that this decree-law is the denial of that book and the working group that had been set up. I would just like to focus on one aspect, namely the collection of signatures. Parties with a parliamentary group set up at 31 December 2021 shall be exempted. It is a rule against common sense, against the Constitution and against institutional courtesy. Against common sense because, Mr President, if this criterion had been used, in 1921 the Communist Party would have had to collect signatures, it could not have presented itself to the elections and could not have set up a group. History and concrete facts have a greater force. Against the Constitution, because, if necessary, the term of the beginning or end of the legislature can be fixed, not the date of the rapporteur's birthday. It will be said that this has been the case in the past. Yes, this has been the case in the past, but with a unanimous agreement, which also included opposition, as Mr Malan very well pointed out. In this case we, who are even part of the majority, had presented an agenda in which the government was simply asked to consider changing that date. That is the only reason why we have been told no. Thus we will have the paradox of parties, perhaps disappeared, that had a parliamentary group on 31 December 2021 and can be exempted from collecting signatures, while parties that perhaps represent an important fact in society, formed after that date, will instead have to collect signatures. Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their action and for the Brothers of Italy, who voted in favour of our agenda in the House. I also heard the words of Senator Vitali, I must say very different from those of his colleagues in the House, Mr De Petris, and also of my colleague in the PD, on the possibility of rethinking this aspect which, from a constitutional point of view, is an abomination. Moreover, from the point of view of institutional courtesy, the Government should not have made such a scorn to a majority. I am sorry to have to tell Senator Paragon that even moderate dragon centrists have been treated exactly with the same false coin that he evoked. However, Mr President, it is precisely for this reason that, in view of the words heard in this House, we in Italy at the Centre will abstain in the vote of confidence and we will test our fellow Members who have criticized the Government's choice here so that we can return to this decision as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u47	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u48	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2653, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 41, 4 May 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator De Vecchis is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator De Vecchis. (Senator Secretary Durnwalder makes the appeal.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2653, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 41, May 4, 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 221 Senators voting 220 Majority 107 Favorable 180 Contrars 33 Absent 7]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 41 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u51	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of the vote on the amendment of Article 33 of the Constitution. The case has meant that, precisely on today's day, 28 June, sport would enter into our Constitution, therefore into the fundamental law of our State. It is a symbolic date, particular and important for our country, because seventy years ago, in my city, Barletta, and I say it with great pride, a world champion of sport was born, not only national, but international, that is, Pietro Mennea. Peter Mennea would turn seventy today [[Applause]] ; Unfortunately, he will not be able to rejoice on such an important day, because he left us too early, nine years ago. The coincidence of the dates, however, is very important and I wanted to highlight it in this House, in order to recall its important sporting feats. He brought our country, Italy, to the roof of the world. Just remember the record of 19.72 seconds in the 200 meters floor, as well as the gold medal at the 1980 Moscow Olympics. But he wasn't just that. He was an important man with important values. He believed in sport, in clean sport, and in fact he has always fought against doping. I would also like to remind you of your commitment, your four degrees, and above all your political commitment. Let us not forget, in fact, that he was a Member of the European Parliament. So today he would certainly be happy with this initiative and that is why I wanted to celebrate it in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u54	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, again this year I remember that on 29 June 2009 in Viareggio there was a railway massacre where 32 people died. But what happened to Viareggio? Why was there a massacre? Certainly, it was not an unpleasant episode, as the then CEO of Ferrovie dello Stato Mauro Moretti stated. What happened was that the axis of the wagon of a train carrying 14 tanks full of LPG broke down and, as the judiciary found, this happened due to lack of maintenance. No, it wasn't an unpleasant episode. The cistern turned upside down, there was a rift, the LPG came out and shortly afterwards a huge explosion occurred. It was 11:48 p.m. on June 29, 2009. It may seem like a paradox, but what happened in 2009 could have become an even bigger ecatombe if, as the technicians of the University of Pisa explained, that night the wind, after the explosion, had pushed fire towards the other 13 cisterns. There would have been a series of chain explosions that would have generated a hell of fire for at least a kilometer; thousands would have been the victims, including myself who was one of the first to arrive at the station. As I have repeated several times, what happened after is the representation of the worst of the Cialtroneria made in Italy: the cavalierato a Moretti, the fugitive of the State, the protection of the strong powers instead of the family; the cowardice and the lack of dignity to apologize before so much pain. The last episode is the exit of the Municipality of Viareggio as a civil part from the trial bis still underway in court of appeal in Florence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no words but perhaps one: shame! [[Applause]] By saying it I believe I represent my entire community in Viareggio, because there is no figure that can justify the abandonment of its municipality as a civil part from a trial on a massacre that left a scar on the face of our beautiful city. The massacre of Viareggio, like many others in our country, could and should have been avoided, if he had invested in maintenance and not just thinking about profit. I conclude my speech by thanking all the relatives of the victims who are gathered in the association "The world I would like to be," in particular Marco Piagentini and Daniela Rombi, because their is a testimony of civil commitment and teaching from which all of us should draw. [[Applause]] They don't want revenge, they want justice. I hope that the decision of the Court of Appeal of Florence (wait a few days) will really bring justice and we can then, as we were beginning to do with the former Minister Toninelli, work seriously for the safety of transport, because massacres like that of Viareggio must never happen again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u57	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House one of the most serious issues that will arise from the future of our children, namely the energy transition. At this moment, in fact, more than a transition we are actually seeing a faint ferry between fossil and renewable sources. In 2021 the requests for connection to the high voltage network still to be authorized arrived to Terna from the large RES plants were equal to about 200 gigawatts, of which 150 are ascribable to photovoltaic and wind, including 22 wind projects at sea. Specifically, I am referring to the Ravenna plant, which includes 75 blades 22 kilometers away and a 700 megawatt plant, with the environmental impact procedures that may arrive at the end of 2023 for a start of the work in 2024 and an end of the work scheduled for 2027. They are plants that need to be speeded up and above all simplified. On the other hand, plants such as those inherent in regasification processes have accelerations, simplifications, huge derogations, Commissioners, streamlined procedures. All these paths are done on activities that will have very precarious security, so the levels of control over these realities should be very high, instead events like what we saw recently on June 9 in Texas on the regasifiers of the Freeport LNG, which were closed for three weeks due to explosions. There are very serious situations. Fortunately in this accident there were no victims or injuries, but they are very controlled realities and the housing areas are very far from these regasifiers. The location of these installations is therefore central, because they are at high risk and there is a possibility of accidents. Hundreds and thousands of cubic meters of liquefied gas return to the gaseous state, increase in volume up to 600 times, so unfortunately, as has just happened, unexpected may occur, malfunctions, gas leaks, explosions, collisions of the ships during the transports. The security of citizens must therefore be the central priority in these processes. [[Applause]] Mr President, a thought must be given. The Movimento 5 Stars has tried to accelerate to the maximum on the road of the energy communities, on the superbonus 110 percent, on the incentives to renewables, but we have to note sadly that, instead of accelerating on the wind plants and therefore on renewable energies, we see, as always, implementing simplifications on projects like that of regasifiers and therefore on fossil fuels. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-445.ana.u59	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 29 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.50 p.m.)
