ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 25 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u6	ROJC (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this night a great Italian culture has disappeared and not only in Trieste, at the age of 108, Boris Pahor, whose fate has passed the century. Although marked by the nemesis of his entire community, the Slovenian one of Venice Giulia, by a fate to which he apparently could not oppose, of his own century the writer lived all the worst; he experienced the horrors, as if to reaffirm the Heideggerian concept of being for death, to which as a man and as a writer he opposed. However, he noted the language as the home of being in which he contained all his thought of truth. A wisdom given by the experience, therefore, that of the identity that fascism has tried to deny him, that of having to become something else as a child, that of seeing the flames of the fire of the Narodni dom, the Slovenian culture house in Trieste, destroyed by the flames of the squadrista and fascist fury in 1920, as a omen for the experience of the Nazi lager and his long wandering between Dachau, Markirch-Struthof, Dachau again, Mittelbau-Dora, Harzungen, Berger-Belsen. But also the saving power of love, which the writer intertwines with the catharsis of the word in an inseparable way. His poetry, which becomes poetry, brings him and all of us back to the origin of the sense of existence. The luck of not having become ash becomes predestination to know how to tell what is not recountable, of those men called Nacht und Nebel, of all the humiliated and offended to whom Pahor, through the word, managed to give back the voice. It is precisely the ability to recreate the unimaginable hell of the lager the peculiarity par excellence of Pahor's work, which must therefore be contextualized within that moral revolt, resulting from the devastation caused by totalitarianisms, to define the need to want and have to portray the most aberrant aspects of organized destruction in order to recompose a context within which the division between good and evil was clearer, between what is alive and what is dead. Boris Pahor must be understood as a modern Ulysses: his story is placed in the context of the great testimonies of the twentieth century, as part of a single epic, and in wanting to see and accomplish fate without considering the fear of death. He will say: Death was always around the corner. And we lived it not only with thought, but concretely through that fireplace that smoked day and night emanating the smell of burnt tallow. And you had to breathe it in, you couldn't do it otherwise. The proximity of death and cohabitation with it were normal for me, for us in the lager. The return to the world before the end of the world dictated to Pahor evocative words, which link it to millions of deportees. He before and after Germany: who knows if these two men can ever meet? This is the terrible question that the author comes to ask himself. Boris Pahor will continue to shake the consciences of generations of readers, author of about thirty books of fiction and essay, of numerous essays and articles of a historical-literary, historical and political character. He was the author of a book-interview with the great intellectual and poet Edvard Kocbek, the latter founder of the Catholic-Social wing of the Liberation Front in Slovenia and marginalized by Tito, along with the leading Slovenian contemporary writer, Alojz Rebula. In it Kocbek reveals the truth about summary purges and eliminations, perpetrated, with the connivance of the allied forces, by the Slavic regime in the immediate post-war period. The publication of these revelations led the Yugoslav authorities to deny Pahor, twice and for long periods, entry into the Yugoslav Republic. Pahor has become the emblem of the tragedies of the twentieth century: his faith in the value of democracy, his open denunciation against all dictatorships, against the great who wants to destroy the little one, as he himself asserts, are values that constitute, together with the saving power of love, the central message of his work, in which he becomes mediator between us, readers, and the world of shadows. Objem, mon cher ami! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u7	Senator Rojc, the Presidency supports these beautiful and important words of yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u10	CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the possibility of applying to today's work the rule that was introduced last week during Mr Cingolani's report. In particular, Mr President, you will recall that, to those who pointed out that Mr Cingolani was allowed to speak without the mask, while a member of our Group was not allowed and was removed, the President replied on a point of order, saying that the Minister had been authorized because he had no posts in front and side. Considering that this rule is correct, I ask that the senators who report in the absence of occupied posts should be allowed what has been allowed to a member of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u11	Senator Crucioli, as you know - but I remember it and on the occasion I inform the Assembly - there was a meeting of the College of Quaestors precisely to decide the further rules following the directives you mentioned. They have not yet come to us and, while waiting for them to come, we are continuing with the rules given today. I therefore ask you to be patient, but this is certainly on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2469. The rapporteurs, Senators Collina and Ripamonti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u13	Mr President, I do not understand whether I can speak with the mask or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u14	With the mask, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u15	Mr Collina, rapporteur. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an expected measure in this House, both for its content and for its implications for the country and for Europe. Italy has asked for the lost resources of the Next generation EU and also 100 percent of the resources in debt, signing a costly and demanding contract; the other nations have not asked all of them. They are investment funds that modernise Italy, in the direction of environmental sustainability, digitalization and also for the reduction of gaps, between North and South and those concerning young people and gender equality. To give homogeneity to the country is our goal, but I would say that giving homogeneity to Europe is our goal, from Europeans and Italians as Europeans. We have two tasks: an internal one, towards Italy, and an external one towards Europe, in the alignment of our regulations. It is a path of convergence, certainly gradual and combined with the many original characteristics of Italian history. Synthetically, we called it a "reform path." The contract we have signed in Europe is about investment in modernisation and reform, and if today we have to say which one weighs the most for Europe, I think we will all agree, for the experience we have had so far, in saying that the path that is worth and which weighs the most is that of reform. I am convinced that we could probably outrun the implementation times, but it will not be by chance that the PNRR's payments are linked to the reforms. The reforms essentially concern the alignment of Italian legislation with European directives, which as a country we shared in Europe when they were issued; infringement procedures are therefore the benchmark of this alignment process and the draft competition law is one of the key measures to achieve and achieve this. I believe that this context assessment is important in order to place the work of this day, to which I add a few comments. The first is that this path of alignment necessarily concerns the other European countries as well. Each country has its own peculiarities and in these paths of convergence each country tries to give graduality to the passages, trying to safeguard its own characteristics. However, there is also a theme of reciprocity: this graduality must be recognized to all countries and therefore also to Italy and I believe that the work that has been done in the process of approving the draft competition law also adheres to this assessment. There is also the theme of the geopolitical context in which this bill fits, because while Europe was sharing the path and the choices of the Next generation EU, things have happened today in a dramatic way concerning the reality of Europe and therefore call to the management of these paths also in relation to the valorization of the strategic resources of each country. I will quote a few articles, and then my colleague Mr Paolo Ripamonti, whom I thank for the work he has done together over the last few weeks, will perhaps be able to make further remarks. We have dealt with infringement procedures that the Authorities have systematically reported to the Government and we have tried to work to take into account a number of aspects that are related to our Italian reality. That of article 3 of the bill (Article 5 of the text proposed by the Commission), on the concessions for the harbour areas and the docks, has been a passage that has tried to safeguard the path of confrontation of these years with the union organizations. Ports are a strategic point of our country, which has been the subject of reflections in an evolution of the organization of the harbour authorities. We have tried to put together a path, which in recent years has certainly been gradual, with what will try to give our country greater competitiveness. I would also like to mention, in Article 4 (6 in the Commission's text), invitations to tender for the distribution of gas. Here again it is a path for which the criteria of competition are referred to ministerial decrees. But there is an update of the provisions, which will allow local authorities to be able to carry out the races with the possibility of enhancing the assets that are now their property. I would also like to make a passage on Article 5 (7 of the Commission's text) concerning concessions of major hydroelectric origin. In this regard, the regional competence allocation legislation has been confirmed in its approach, but we have made an important choice, in agreement with all the political forces, considering that at this moment it is a strategic resource not only for the tensions that exist in the field of energy in Europe and in the world, but also for the peculiarity of the hydroelectric resource that represents an important element for our national energy system and is a renewable resource. The application of golden power to concessions is also the choice we make to seek at this time to safeguard strategic assets. Finally, I would like to highlight Article 6 on local public services (8 of the Commission's text), on which we started 20 years ago an important path linked to liberalisation, and not privatisation: I want to stress this because they are two different things. In many parts of our country this path of liberalization has been interpreted as the possibility to enhance those assets that in the territories have represented an important point of investment and infrastructure in order to give efficient services to the citizens. It has been a path involving local communities and administrations and has built skills in parallel with regulatory authorities, which have been able to grow, also together with local administrations, in regulating these markets that are linked to public services of economic interest in which the industrial management of these services has a significant weight. We have also tried to enhance and defend the peculiarities of our territory. The market cannot reach everywhere and has rules that do not take into account the geomorphological aspects of the territory and the social aspects. Italy needs to provide services to all citizens, since there are no A and B-series citizens in the management of local public services, and the appropriateness of the corporate form, the form in which this service is given, is an absolutely important issue. There are parts of Italy that today are managed with companies in house in absolute efficiency, moreover in regulated markets where the Arera allows to evaluate all the parameters of the managements related to the investments and the services rendered. I believe that some assessments, which have been made and which I have read in the press, relating to norms approved by the Senate in an anti-competitive way are to be rejected, because we have tried to do a job that gives graduality to this passage and also recognizes the objective characteristics of our country, which certainly needs to take steps forward to give homogeneity in the national territory to the management of local public services. I believe that this will be a step forward, which is moving in the right direction. I quote a few articles quickly and I begin to conclude, because together with Senator Ripamonti we will deliver the specific and detailed report on the whole measure. I would like to refer to Article 29 (33 of the Commission's text), which is linked to the abuse of economic dependence, which is also extended to the digital market. We are awaiting the approval of the digital markets act by the European Commission and therefore its transposition. But today we take a step forward in advance, with respect to which there are contradictions that we hope will be interpreted positively by the Government in issuing guidelines for the application of these regulations. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, who has followed us with constant attention and great commitment over the past few weeks, Minister D'Incà and Undersecretary Bini for their relations with Parliament, who have helped to coordinate the work in a significant way, Undersecretary Garofoli, who has been an important interlocutor for us for the management of some crucial issues on these issues, and Dr Di Cesare of the 10th Commission, which has rendered an important service to make our work tidy. I would like to thank President Girotto of the 10th Commission and all my colleagues. This is a very complex measure, which, as you have seen, has covered a number of very specific issues which deserved special consideration and have invested the Commission in a work of reflection on the subject as a whole. Many articles have been completely replaced; we have not worked with the amendments, but we have worked on the substance of the text of the draft law and on the specific content, trying to give consistency to the texts. I believe that such a complex work, for the part that has been entrusted to us (because the House will proceed to follow on other aspects of the text), we have dealt with it with a continuity and a determination that brought us to this House today, I believe, with satisfaction. I want to conclude on Article 2, which has brought us to the fore of national attention. It is the emblem of the peculiarities of our country in trying to find ways of convergence with European regulations. I believe that many countries have particular situations that must be brought back within the European regulations; we have some that, on the one hand, are the reason for so much luck in our country (I think of the services based on the reception of tourists on our beaches); on the other hand, however, they are situations that over the years have been formed in ways that have lost the operational coordinates that they should have had. I believe that we have made an important choice and step, because the intention is to give a picture of certainty to our companies: entrepreneurs need certainties, rules on which to know how to behave and take decisions. We have now taken a step that sets out the rules in this direction and I hope that all operators will interpret them in this way and, from here on, try to make a positive contribution in this direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u16	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific High School Renato Donatelli in Terni, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] The emphasis of this House testifies to the contentment of resuming these beautiful habits.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u17	I call the rapporteur, Senator Ripamonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u18	Madam President, this gradual return to normality is important, even if I still speak with the mask today, but I understand that we are almost there too.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u19	You'll see it's really close.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u20	RIPAMONTI, rapporteur. I'm confident. Mr Collina gave a fair description of the course of this measure which is coming to this House today. I would instead like to start with sincere and heartfelt thanks: first of all to the Government, represented - I say this for the part that has not participated actively in our work, then the Minister D'Incà - especially by Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin and by the Undersecretary Bini, who in recent months, alongside each other, have given a great boost to an important job, perhaps underestimated, that Parliament and this majority have carried out for a measure that someone has defined as the most important of the whole legislature. It should not be forgotten how important this bill is for the continuation of our path within the PNRR. Allow me to thank my group leader, Massimiliano Romeo, for the confidence he has shown me in allowing me to follow this measure within my Commission, and President Girotto, whom I particularly thank for the balance he has always shown over the past few months, trying to find a path that combined two political forces a little distant, such as the League and the PD, in the representation of the rapporteurs, but also all the majority forces. He has always done so with great balance, so I thank him. I would also like to thank my Parent Company in the Commission, Roberto Marti, who has been enormously useful to me, and all my colleagues from the 10th The Commission, together with colleagues in the House who have spoken from time to time, has shown a great sense of responsibility, depending on the article we are talking about, and has never shirked away from the Commission's work. I would like to thank Dr Di Caesar very much - I want to do so too - without whom it was difficult honestly to come out of this mechanism, perhaps a little new - at least for me it certainly is - of a measure made with two thousand hands between the House and the Senate. Thank you so much. The last thanks, and then move on to some consideration, I address it to my co-rapporteur, because in the end we have shown that sometimes you can also be distant from the point of view of the balance of politics, but you can be much closer when the substance prevails. So, thanks to Senator Collina for the great work and thanks to all the Leaders: here I see Senator De Petris, Senator Malpezzi, Senator Castellone, Senator Faraone. In the end they brought us back, when it was time to do so, to concreteness. This bill is fundamental for the PNRR, as Senator Collina has very well reminded us, and in the report that we are going to deliver to Parliament it is very well described how important it is and how much work has been done: a huge amount of work, carried out together with the House, and I assure you that it has not been very simple, because political positions are different, and sometimes within the political group itself there are different opinions; I speak for my own, not for others, in order to avoid controversy. I believe there has been a non-coherent narrative, or rather in recent times a message has emerged not so consistent with the true work of the whole Parliament, the whole Senate and the House, but above all not consistent with the efforts of the two rapporteurs and representatives of the Government, who have very much applied themselves to this measure, perhaps leading it, in the end, to a single subject, that of the last days, relating to bathing concessions. On the other hand, within this bill there is a world that has been set up, and that has been put in a position to obtain the necessary and binding funds provided for in the contracts we have signed with Europe. And alive, God, for once, we sign the contracts and respect them. We have solved of the important points, like the hydropower, the tied part to the portualità, the tied part to the derivation of the gas and the tied part to the 'in house, changing also a little' that perhaps was a wrong approach regarding a great topic like that of the house, to the great ability of the territories to make system between them. Therefore, we tried to protect this aspect, while remaining within the perimeter of the competition that was called up. I do not extend my speech too long, because the general debate will involve many speeches and I do not want to take away from colleagues who will intervene in the strength and desire to claim, within this bill, their belongings. Therefore, I just congratulate everyone and say that, in my opinion, this bill was an important demonstration of how we can work and work well, reserving for reply, because otherwise it would not be me, some pebbles to remove.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u21	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u22	Madam President, the jurist Paolo Maddalena writes that the sad phenomenon of concessions of essential public services, an aspect of the deadly privatizations that have impoverished the country, is part of the biggest event of transformation, through hundreds of unconstitutional laws, of the ancient Keynesian economic system, which ensured wealth and well-being for all, in the current economic system predatory, ruthless, cynical and immoral neoliberalism, whose aim is to transfer wealth, using the deceptive instrument of competition, from the poorest to the richest. It was June 2, 1992, the Feast of the Republic, a hundred days after the arrest of Mario Chiesa, who had launched the biggest political and judicial earthquake in Italy's history, which tried to disrupt the system of corruption and bribes, paid by the large public and private companies to the pentaparty to have public contracts awarded to friends of power. Thirty years after that 2 June 1992, historical date for the decline of Italy, where the state sales were consumed, contracted to Goldman Sachs and other business and business banks, off the coast of Civitavecchia, on Britannia, the President of the Council and his team of the "goods of the Palace," led by Javazzi, epigons of that school in Chicago whose bankrupt theories are no longer cloakable, are completing the work, the second time, with ultra-clientary appointments, occupying all the ganglia of economic activity with those champions of the Far West of the market, perfecting a bankrupt neoliberal project that has generated poverty, inequality, misery, war and despair for 99 percent of the population, transferring the wealth of the nations to one percent of the elite. On privatisation procedures, the Court of Auditors has highlighted a number of critical issues, ranging from the high level of costs incurred and their uncertain monitoring, to the lack of transparency inherent in some of the procedures used in a number of operations, from the lack of clarity in the framework of the division of responsibility between administration, contractors and advisory bodies, to the non-immediate use of revenues in debt reduction. In these thirty years, privatised companies have lost more than a million employees; those who bought pre-retirement or sacked so-called redundancies. The quality of services and products - and I say this from a privileged observatory of a consumer association belonging to the National Council of Consumers and Users (CNCU), chaired by Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, whom I greet - has deteriorated and decreased by 34%, as a certificate from the Court of Auditors. Moreover the Italian State has been one of the few to sell to the same subject both the activity that supplies the services and the network infrastructure (Sip, Telecom), with the copper cables on which the signal travels: Motorways, with the control of the road network with toll booths. Some time after those wretched state sales, the head office studies of Mediobanca, Fulvio Coltorti, close collaborator of Enrico Cuccia, described the summit of Britannia saying that on board had discussed the business of privatizations. It was a powerful state aid to foreign business banks, a summit organized by Mario Draghi under the direction of the former President of the Council Giuliano Amato, whom I greet as President of the Constitutional Court. Thus, despite the fact that Autostrade companies for Italy have enjoyed an annual yield of 26.95 percent, as shown on page 43 of the annex to the 2007 agreement with the Minister of Infrastructure of the Prodi Government, only a small part of those large gains has been reinvested to improve the quality and safety of travellers. After the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, with its 43 victims, instead of withdrawing the concession, the Government Draghi-Giovannini, more favorite names of the lords of the toll booth, has given - second recourse to the TAR of Lazio deposited in these days against the Interministerial Committee for the foreign economic policy (CIPES), Presidency of the Council, Ministry of the economy and infrastructures, signed by the professor lawyer Daniele Granara, in the interest of associations, industrialists, users and consumers represented from the Association defense users banking and financial services (ADUSBEF) - 21,3 billion euros in Autostrade for Italy (ASPI) as remuneration of the infrastructures until 31 December 2038, a financial one in favor of the Benettons and their strange associates. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purchase price of motorway quotas is €9.1 billion (debit collection in ASPI: €8.8 billion; payment of the damage caused in the transaction: €3.4 billion) and refunds and remuneration will be made in accordance with the decision of the CIPES, to which I sent the warning No 75, of December 22, 2021, through an increase in toll rates to fatten a natural monopoly, the hen from golden eggs. According to what has been written and advocated by the most famous and authoritative editorialists embedded of dictatorial neoliberalism, which does not allow criticism, in the days, months and years following that June 2, 1992, finally the productive part of the country would be delivered by the inexperienced and dissipating hands of the State to qualified, careful, efficient and profitable private hands. The facts are before everyone's eyes and they have denied that subtle propaganda of state sales, donated for privatization by the flankers of the capitalism of relations, very used in socializing losses, after privatising the large profits. Today, in Italy that is among the top places for corruption and among the last for freedom of the press and that punishes honests and servants of the State to reward chores, cliques, thieves, corrupts and bag holders of the power of the manutengols, other scandals cross the country, with more refined tools, used by collectors of bribes and bribes in all sectors of public life, with more sophisticated means. I shall conclude, Madam President, and colleagues. A great economist like Giulio Sapelli said: We must finally say clearly that today's lack of growth is the result of the unfortunate privatizations of the 1990s. Privatizations made for friends of friends and again: We have never asked anyone to account for this; intellectually and politically I mean; indeed, on this robbery political fortunes have been built that last until today. Those political fortunes have been exploited by very refined minds to impose on Italy, which repudiates war, a softer and softer dictatorship, with the overturned pyramid of the primacy of the cleptocracy over politics, which has imposed on the faithful representative of toxic finance and money from nothing to expropriate Parliament of its democratic functions and humiliate the Commissions, which have become passcartes of the wrongdoings of an executive who has become the third chamber, whose measures to burst like the current one in favor of the usual consorteries, friendly cliques and groups of power, contrast the Constitution, the common good and the legitimate rights and interests of the Italian people. You go ahead, we will oppose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u23	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u24	Mr President, today the Senate Assembly is adopting a measure which, precisely for its own part, the competition policy should have been of central importance; on the other hand, we are once again debating a weak, but above all questionable, measure which is the result of a frayed majority. The draft law under consideration should ensure greater competition and open up the sectors of distribution and energy efficiency and local public services to competitiveness, precisely through economic actions. The passage to the Senate, however, left only bitter in the mouth for the wasted opportunities, also and especially for the discontent that all this has generated. Unfortunately, the government does wrong things and we no longer have news of the great reforms, such as that of the tax; indeed, precisely on the fiscal delegation we continue to fear the umpteenth death on the Italians through the reform of the land register, the usual asset that will be imposed by the Left, which unfortunately seems to be the main shareholder of this majority. The only thing this Government has managed to achieve is the expropriation of 30,000 Italian companies, to give our bathing establishments to foreign multinationals. [[Applause]] If that's what our premier Mario Draghi's great authority was for, then we have a big problem. A government that calls itself "the best" and should be such, had to allow Italy, with the measure under discussion, to heal delays in many ways unbreakable and to ensure the renewal of infrastructure, transport and water supply. These were the urgent things to do. Would it not have been an opportunity, for example, to abolish the income of citizenship, now become the panacea of all the evils of South Italy? However, I would like to return to the subject of bathing concessions, which I mentioned earlier. What the majority has achieved in this respect is a ridiculous and in some respects also shameful agreement. There is still the issue of compensation, even at the very risk that this will not be recognised by the European Commission. This means leaving the current dealers totally unprotected, which will be largely expropriated from their companies in favour of foreign multinationals. We want to denounce all this, also because the Government has already extensively and clearly demonstrated how you feel about the subject, presenting an amendment that transposes the forcing of the Council of State against the legislative power of Parliament, even telling the Italians - and this is not true - that without the auctions on the bathing concessions would have been lacking 19 billion of financing of the PNRR. From such a government and from the implementing decrees that it is called to issue we expect nothing more than the definitive bang against tens of thousands of enterprises that represent - let us not forget - a fundamental piece of our tourism sector. At one time the proletarian expropriation was in fashion for the benefit of the State; now it is the State that expropriates private individuals for the benefit of other larger private individuals and, for some, even stronger aspects. It's an absolute shame. This government helps those who do not work with the income of citizenship and instead beat those who invest and make pacts with the state. [[Applause]] It is precisely today's news that in some areas of our country nine out of ten people have rejected a job offer and prefer to remain unemployed and keep the subsidy. Today has been written a not nice page for all those who work. Against this disaster, Brothers of Italy will continue to fight in every seat. We have stressed on several occasions the need to provide for the recognition of the actual commercial value of companies net of the investments made over the years. Moreover, there is a need to guarantee the right of pre-emption of the current dealers, which is fundamental and indispensable to protect 30,000 families who - let us not forget - have devoted their entire lives to the conduct of these activities for decades. A transitional period is also essential for the mapping of beaches. The absurd thing is the contradiction, inconceivable for Brothers of Italy, that arises from the fact that the motorway and hydroelectric concessions and the private public services are not put into competition, while - at the same time - it is urgent for the Government to hit 30,000 small Italian tourist companies in order to favor the foreign multinationals. As I said before, we need to ban motorway and hydroelectric concessions and not hit 30,000 families that also create a pipeline. All this stems from the fact that the majority is split inside and fails to synthesize. To conclude, it is essential to return to the vote - and we will continue to repeat it to the end - since it is up to the Italians to decide who to be governed by. The sooner that happens, the better. In the meantime we continue to say no to the sale of our beaches and Brothers of Italy will monitor the decrees of implementation, for the good of the citizens. Now we can only express our regret, especially for the missed opportunity, by this Government, to exploit the opportunities offered by the measure under consideration. Every day more you prove inadequate to govern Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u25	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I have followed with great interest and respect the work of the Government and the parliamentary committees on this important measure and I have appreciated in the speeches of the rapporteurs, Senators Collina and Ripamonti, the emphasis on the technical complexity and political difficulty of any intervention in favour of competition. Bringing more competition involves, by definition, a clash (whether at European or national level) which is systematically in favour - and I am sorry to disagree with Senator Lannutti - of the weak side. Senator Lannotti, as you must know, creating more competition in the economy has nothing to do with privatising; they are two completely different things. For example, the European legal system - as is well known - is completely neutral between private or public ownership of companies, but requires, whether private or public, the same compliance with competition and state aid rules. I would have liked this measure to come earlier and to be even more intense. For those who want to understand, perhaps not having followed the work closely, in what the measure could have been more intense, I point out the study of 28 May 2022 of Professor Cottarelli's observatory. However, at this moment I am not so interested to note what is missing in this important measure, but to make some observations on competition and on the Italian economic and political culture. We must be aware that on this occasion Italy introduces some improvements in competition because Europe imposes it and - something absolutely unprecedented - because Europe pays us to do so. Think of how difficult it must have been in the past to reform by creating discontent and without any compensation from Europe. This situation will return, normally: today we are in a moment of exception and there would be nothing else that could not, in this situation, reach this result. However, the rapporteurs first know how difficult it was. Let us not get used to this year's situation, because Italy, like any other country, will have to make so many tiring reforms to be continually modernised and will not always receive a substantial prize from above. We must convince ourselves that it is in our interest, as a country, that structures are modernised, with balance and attention to social aspects. We do it for us; even better, we do it for our children. We do not do this at all because Europe is asking us to do so. Europe is asking for this and it can also demand it, because we have all delegated it, through the Treaties, to look further than we, national governments and parliaments, and therefore to look after our children. You don't think competition is ideology. Competition, if there is more, has very tangible and measurable consequences: more growth, less inequality, less inflation. What things in our country today are more important than these three? More growth, because more competition means that every islet of corporation, legitimately created in history and that so far has kept its drawbridges well closed, decides - or lets it be understood a little at a time - that it is good to open them. Everyone will feel less protected in their own operational trench, but this will result in more breath, more productivity, more production, more employment and more growth. At the moment we have two problems: one is mentioned, and the other, in my opinion, is far too little in all areas of politics; the first is inflation, the second is inequality. This inflation, which has been caused not so much - or not yet - by the war in Ukraine, but by not very sensible policies conducted in recent years by the central banks, in Europe and elsewhere, and then certainly by the ways in which action is taken against the consequences of the pandemic, strikes us and will strike us. Competition helps to keep prices low and thus reduce inflation and reduce inequalities, because generally they are kept out of the markets, because of partitions that block, they are the youngest, perhaps those that come from outside, have new ideas and are more willing to fight and instead, in general, they are prevented from doing so by the protective measures of the insiders. It has rightly been pointed out by the rapporteurs that Europe must certainly ensure that competition is respected by all Member States. I invite everyone to bear in mind that each of us - or almost - can act. Having done that job in Europe for so many years, I know that it has always been a great help to the European Commission to receive complaints and complaints from governments or companies, which signalled reduced distortions of competition. The European Commission then makes its inquiries, sometimes concludes yes and intervenes and some others conclude no. Mr President, I very quickly conclude my speech with a remark, which is cultural, or even language. In Italy we have become accustomed, in my opinion, to use an expression that has become very widespread in all political sectors, that is, that according to which the State puts its hands in the pockets of the Italians. Of course we can and must discuss the height of the tax burden and the tax structure, but I do not believe that anyone contests that the State is a person entitled to impose taxes. In the field of competition it happens that, when there is not enough and the regimes governing the individual professions and sectors are too restrictive, some Italians and some operators, following regulations of the State and of Parliament, put their hands in the pockets of other Italians and take things called annuities. The tax burden on the citizen and on the enterprise is not only the obvious one that comes out of the decisions of the tax authorities, but to it is added the hidden taxation, that is, the money that everyone sees stolen without even realizing it, because it goes to feed the rent of other subjects, usually as a result of legislative or administrative measures. Gentlemen, congratulations: you or your successors still have a huge job to do, but this is a good stage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u28	Mr President, Vice-Minister Pichetto Fratin, Undersecretary Bini, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend special thanks to the two rapporteurs, colleagues from the 10th Commission, the Senators Collina and Ripamonti, and of course also the Government, who had an incredible patience to listen to the different positions we have tried to compose in this extremely important measure, which - I must say - was an opportunity of great growth for me, thanks not only to the comparison with the House - because we know that some articles have provided for a competitive dialogue between the House and the Senate - but also to the extremely interesting dialogue with other Majority Leaders. I remember the lively discussions that have occasionally taken place with my excellent colleague Senator Errani, with whom the confrontation is always pleasant. This measure is extremely important, because basically, at least once in every legislature, it tries to redefine - as I believe we will do in the next one - the parameters of competition and the market in relation to what we then see happening outside of these classrooms, in the market, and that consumers and users ask us. We know that Italy is the eighth world economy, but according to the World Economic Forum's report on global competitiveness, it is the thirtieth place in the world for the level of competition. This position that Italy has maintained with reference to the parameter of competition is not that it has increased more the GDP of our country, that as we know perfectly has not grown like that of other countries with which we have to confront. This lack of growth, due to pockets of inefficiency, as Professor Monti also said, must be removed, because then consumers and future generations ask for it, but also a responsible policy. We know that this is a measure linked to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that serves to draw a significant part of resources that go - we know - to the ecological and digital transition and therefore an act of political responsibility requires to make an effort towards modernity, fighting rents, overcoming the nostalgic attitudes of the past and taking care to interpret, perhaps even a little 'early, what the market demands. In my opinion, politics in this sense must try to unite pragmatism and vision, because it is fundamental, in the 21st century, since the changes will be increasingly disrupting and less predictable, so we must make an effort to try to anticipate them and this will be possible if we can combine vision with pragmatism. It is good for Italy, after having made this effort, to be more authoritative in Europe, through the Draghi Government, which represents our country authoritatively at European level, not only but also worldwide, and try to define a European industrial policy, in order to be able to count much more. We cannot move like mice, but we must move with an industrial structure within Europe to fight the giants we see in this globalised economy. [[Applause]] Many times with the Deputy Minister and dear friend Pichetto Fratin we have made speeches about globalization, which I absolutely do not want to understand as a monster, but certainly as a complex phenomenon, which must be governed. I think that the serious and responsible attitude of politics towards globalisation is that which in some way provides for an in-depth study of this phenomenon, of which we all fill our mouths, but which we do not know in its depth, to govern it, since it cannot be stopped or fought at all. Think that I have taken away the satisfaction of reading on the Internet: the phenomenon of globalization has very ancient roots, it was born even in 1600, period that dates back its first phase and the second one is manifested in 1700 and 1800; we start from the third - and then we get to what we still live today, which is the fourth phase - which essentially coincides with the victory of the United States of America and the Soviet Union in the Second World War and its destruction of the old colonial empires, including the French and English ones, even if they were on the side of the winners. With the Treaty of Bretton Woods of 1944, the dollar, as we know, becomes central to world trade, the prices of global goods harmonize and, at the same time, the actions of the World Bank, on the one hand, and the International Monetary Fund, on the other hand, which give a significant and important boost to the movement of capital and investment in developing countries. We now come to the fourth phase, the one that we are basically living today and that begins in 2001, with China entering the World Trade Organization, in which also the migratory dynamics start from the South-East to the West of the world. At this stage, which - I repeat - we are still experiencing, the growth of China, of the world population in developing countries and, above all, of technology (with the so-called digitalization) have led to huge changes and a general increase in globalisation, understood as the exchange of goods and services - especially of goods - and movements of people. The world economy has fundamentally changed, but the rules of the World Trade Organization remained substantially unchanged: they also told the G20, if I am not mistaken, in October 2021. It is absolutely necessary to intervene with reforms that have an inclusive and transparent approach, in order to address the issues of this century, which are those of development, growth, fair competition and mutually beneficial trade relations. Italy and Europe must make a significant effort in this respect, otherwise it becomes very difficult what we are trying to do with the reforms, which are not only those contained in this measure, but also those that will come later. Speaking as a right-wing politician, what do I expect? I expect there to be an area of center-right that imagines how to save a liberal democracy - this is fundamental to me - with a path that is alternative and not approached to what is put on the field by a certain sovereignist and nationalist right. I would like it to be a less populist right, much more popular and closer to the community and the people, as well as more attentive to the merit and the virtuous relationship between the public and the private. In this sense, I hope that the entire sector of local public services and all that we have heard is contained within this measure with the so-called in-house companies will leap forward and go a little beyond that public capitalism that seems to me still quite present. I hope that new industrial relations will be established that are win-win between workers and entrepreneurs and see a very strong link between capital and work within an organization deeply anchored in the territory in which it operates. It is the so-called concept of glacal: the valorization of our traditions, of craftsmanship, of the ability to do, everything I have always said that goes under the hat of Made in Italy, with the ability, however, to export culture, traditions, attachment to the territory and the value of the family, in short, everything that I do not think must absolutely worry us, even in the hypothesis of acquisitions of pieces of our productive world by investment funds or large international groups. In fact, if the Italian management is able to value everything I said, I think we can only grow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u29	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, Senator Collina and Senator Ripamonti, for having followed and brought to the House on a timely basis the measure that we are going to vote on today. The aim of this draft law is to tackle a number of rules, covering as many areas as possible: local public services, energy, transport, waste, start-up of business activities and market surveillance. It is, in practice, a process of reform in order to bring us into line with Europe. This is, for example, the mapping of concessions of goods, in order to promote maximum publicity and transparency on port services, the distribution of natural gas, hydro-electric concessions, which for all should have been started by 31 December 2022. With regard to state property concessions and management relationships for tourist-recreational and sporting purposes, the extension was granted on 31 December 2024, thanks to an amendment to the text with the amendment desired by the League. It is important that the Government envisages the recognition of the actual commercial start-up value of the companies, net of the investments made over the years. In practice, work has been done to protect the nature of businesses, even small and family-run, as the only source of income, the recognition of the professional and technical experience of the sector for stability, eco-sustainability, the usability of structures by people with disabilities, at the same time as respect for the environment and culture. The right of pre-emption to existing dealers will also have to be guaranteed, in order to protect the 30,000 families and 300,000 workers in the sector, who have dedicated and currently devote their lives to the activities and services necessary for the well-being of the environment and citizens. I am referring in particular to the beaches. It should be emphasized that our rapporteur has managed to remove from the text of the measure that award criterion for those who have experience in managing public goods that reminds me a little 'the so much criticized practice of the lawyer, a legal instrument that allows to participate in the tenders without technical and professional requirements, being able to use those of other companies. The commitment of the League has been to bring reformulations to the text of the Government, in order to guarantee to the outgoing concessionaire a fair compensation, that will be paid by the successor concessionaire; the sums to be paid, recognized with the implementing decrees, will be concerted with the enterprises of the field and this is a very important thing. The opposition must play its role of stimulus and criticism, but I think it is ingenious not to recognize the effort and work done by our representatives, no one excluded, who through their intervention have created the conditions to discourage and remove any speculators. Another important area, in my opinion, is dealt with in Article 5 of the measure, which concerns concessions of major hydropower. The League is the author of a reformulation approved in the Commission, confirming the regularisation of the hydroelectric sector. At last, enough with the attempt of some political forces to demolish one of the first concrete forms of autonomy of the Regions; enough to benefit the concessionaires to the detriment of the citizens on the water charges, with heavy erial damages to the mountain territories. We as League have always fought these maneuvers. With the reassignment of concessions by the Regions will finally be recognized appropriate fees to the mountain territories concerned, environmental compensations, free electricity supply. After twenty years of stalemate a season of great investments will start to modernize and re-launch the hydroelectric. It will give the impetus to the creation of the power plant network, the installation of infrastructure by local authorities and motorway concessions with criteria for the selection of operators, so that everything takes place in transparency. Let's say it's a strategic asset for our nation, to bet everything on energy from renewable sources and reduce our dependence on energy from abroad. President, on energy independence, which is of great use at the moment, I would like to draw the attention of the Government to one example: the need to consider a project of absolute public benefit which has been financed with private funds and which has already obtained the environmental impact assessment (EIA) since 24 March 2021. It is the installation of a regasification terminal to the Port channel of Cagliari, which awaits the understanding from the Sardinia Region demanded from the Ministry of the ecological transition. It is a reminder that I first make to myself, but it is necessary that all interested parties make an effort to speed up all those operations that can benefit. [[Applause]] In this case it is my Region, but the growth will certainly be for the whole nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u31	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the International Classical High School "Giovanni Meli" in Palermo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u32	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u33	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, competition is unquestionably an important instrument for the economy and can bring several system benefits, such as the overcoming of oligopolistic rents and the improvement of the management of public goods given in concession, through the services offered by public or private entities and much more. Today we are taking a step forward, but I still think it is insufficient, especially in view of the particular historical moment. We should first issue a competition law every year. The last measure on competition was approved in 2017 - I was there - after a difficult and very long journey. Today we have acted and are acting with difficulties linked to the fact that we have a very large majority and very tight times. Nevertheless, it seems that the mandatory targets set by the PNRR can be met. We have had a long debate, perhaps the only one in this parliamentary term, with the direct involvement of fellow Members, whom I thank. The measure comes to the House after the appointment of the rapporteurs, the Senators Collina and Ripamonti, whom I thank very much; I extend this thanks to all my colleagues who have worked in the Industry Commission. I would like to thank the Commission's parliamentary adviser, Dr Di Cesare, and all the staff of the Industry Commission's office for the quality and consistency of their professional contribution, which have enabled the work to be completed in the referee and also for the help offered in the further finishing to the texts discussed in the majority. I thank the Government, Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, who has always been present and effectively and wisely, who has synthesized in the majority. I hope that the House will approve the measure in time to allow immediately to work with the Government, always with a collaborative spirit, for the drafting of the implementing decrees that will then be examined by the Chambers for the opinion. On the substance, I believe that improvements have been made to the basic text. On local public services, I would like to point out two important adjustments: the distinction is introduced between services of general economic interest on the network, which operate in a broad context, and other local public services of economic importance. The opinion of the parliamentary committees is introduced on the draft decrees that were not present in the text of the Government. Above all, I would like to point out that there has been a failure in the text's approach to the self-production management of public services. On the most difficult issue to unravel, such as that of the beaches, proposals of the 5 Star Movimento have been transposed, although we would have liked much more; we will commit ourselves in the implementation phase to ensure the drafting of legislative decrees, so that many other aspects can find the right application, limiting to the best the application of possible derogations that my colleagues will shortly detail better. On the hydroelectric concessions we have inserted two mini extensions. The Regions will have until the end of 2023 - and no longer 2022 - to ban concessions before the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility intervenes with the substitute powers. The Regions will have until the end of 2023, no longer 2022, to ban concessions, before the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility intervenes with the substitute powers. The Regions may extend all concessions with an earlier expiry date at the end of 2024 and no longer 2023. I would like to remind you that, thanks to Mr Cioffi's commitment, we have included in the price-cutting decree a rule that extends the golden power to hydroelectric concessions, which will safeguard this national heritage. [[Applause]] I am delighted that there has been a very constructive climate. These last few months have been or, at least, attempted to make policy in the noble sense of the term, all concerned with doing the best for the citizens and the nation. I think I have made it clear that the need to respect the PNRR constraints is out of the question, which is why we must aim to close this bill quickly. However, we cannot forget the unresolved issues. There are a lot of them and I try to explain myself. What fair competition can be established in the face of systematic tax avoidance, which distorts it in an unbearable way? What fair competition is possible in a planet where speculative finance performs 90% of daily financial transactions, with transactions that have nothing to do with a virtuous reality, but that, vice versa, have the most despicable effect to determine the prices of the goods traded? What fair competition can there be when the prices are not determined by the classic cross between supply and demand, but by the bets on the future, precisely the futures, without obligation to the delivery deadline of the underlying and equally without prohibition, for the owners of raw materials, to conclude derivatives on that type of raw materials? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we all know what this is about, but I am addressing the citizens and saying: as long as the derivatives are not limited, we are like the crew of a ship that is sinking and trying to empty it from the water by means of drainers with very large holes. [[Applause]] In fact, what real competition there can be in the energy market, which is the basis of everything, when we have not yet been able to calculate the price of gas, which has fivefold: to a very small extent for concrete reasons, but to a very large extent precisely because of the speculations that are being made with derivatives. What real competition can exist when five SIMs plus five banks in the world control 90% of derivatives? What real competition can there be if 3% of farms in Europe hold 52% of agricultural land? What real competition can there be if nine out of 10 transactions on the world cereals market affect four corporations? As far as agrichemistry is concerned, in 1980 we had 20 corporations; now we have three. Three companies in the world decide the fate of pesticides and agricultural chemical fertilizers worldwide. We talked about ports. 90% of the goods in the world travel by sea, but there are only 5 shipping companies and 5 companies operating in ports and holding 50% of the transport and management capacity. And if we compiled a list of the world's top 100 economies, including nations, and companies, based on government revenue and turnover, we would discover that 70 of these 100 are multinational. Dulcis in the end, finance. Twenty-five financial giants control 30% of the first 43,000 multinationals. I repeat: twenty-five financial giants control 30% of the first 43,000 multinationals. As a result, in Brussels the number of so-called lobbyists continues to increase, with the appalling phenomenon of revolving doors, which policy cannot regulate. Lobbying is not a wrong phenomenon; revolving doors are a wrong phenomenon. [[Applause]] Personally, I am convinced that the recent EU turn, with the inclusion of certain gas and nuclear conditions in taxonomy, has been heavily influenced by the actions of Russian lobbyists, who can still operate in Brussels. There is a very recent Greenpeace report with 30 pages of references. Russian lobbyists pushed for the inclusion of gas and nuclear energy in taxonomy. Let it be clear that the 5 Star Movimento is not against businesses and is not against profit. Of course! Industry 4.0 was made stable for three years for the first time in history by Minister Patuanelli, a 5 Star Minister. [[Applause]] Businesses, however, must move within a framework of fair competition rules. I repeat that competition is good and fair and that the urgency of closing the measure is due to the already mentioned PNRR obligations. I believe, however, that a politician should have a 360 degree view of the world. Well, I recently had a discussion with a minister, who told me that I don't have that vision, because I only think about renewables. Apart from the fact that the data I gave you, I first published them ten years ago and then I just updated them and that they are the result of an interest in politics that lasts 40 years. Apart from the fact that I said these things seven years ago in Rai and since then Rai didn't want me anymore. [[Applause]] Apart from that, I believe that a politician who has a vision at three hundred and sixty degrees of the world should think above all about renewable sources. It seems to me that the facts of the last few months are proving this amply and I am convinced that the coming months and years will prove it even more. By closing the competition speech, I want to reiterate that energy will be a crucial issue. Buildings consume about a third of the total Italian needs and waste 60 percent of them. Between 2013 and 2019 we had a whole series of building bonuses, to which I have worked, to reach 110 that now Europe praises us, but that is hindered. Just obstacles to the superbonus; superbonus and energy communities will make us "energically" and therefore politically much more independent. We are all certainly intelligent, competent and dedicated to the good of Italy, but we cannot but extend the vision to three hundred sixty degrees to determine the real causes of poor national and global competition and act accordingly. Go ahead with the draft competition law, but it is not a fig leaf so as not to operate on everything else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u34	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u35	Mr President, I should like to begin with a point of order. It would appear that this time the government is not oriented to raise the question of trust. That would already be a huge step forward. In fact, let us remind everyone that you have arrived - you have arrived - to the fiftieth trust. We also remind those who may have noticed the times, in the other legislatures or in the other governments that preceded this, complained about the use of trust. It means that 50 times you have expropriated Parliament from its role and so today that seems not to be the case, let us record first good news. I wonder if we will be able, after so much lack of training, to discuss the amendments. In fact, Brothers of Italy did not withdraw the 50 amendments and indeed will try to improve the measure in our examination precisely because it will finally be possible to discuss it in this House. In reality, however, a part of trust, in our view, you have already asked for it. It is an extra-parliamentary trust; not that extra-parliamentary one that much likes part of the hemicycle, but an extra-parliamentary trust that your leader, the highly authoritative Mario Draghi, has asked a Council of Ministers, which lasted eight minutes. Eight minutes in which, evidently long-winded, he told you "or so or I go home," terrorizing Ministers and party leaders with the possibility of possible elections, which is terrible because competition exists and must be sought everywhere except electoral competition. Europe does not ask for it and we do not need it; we do not need it, we do not need it today, we need stability. Today, in your opinion, we need stability. In eight minutes then the Premier used his authority. That authoritativeness which we would like him to use in Europe on foreign policy issues, which he would use in Europe to explain that the Bolkestein directive has nothing to do with this measure. We would still like you to explain that the PNRR funds are not being called into question if the issue of bathing areas is not being applied, which has nothing to do with them. We would like you to explain to Europe that this PNRR does not work because the conditions on which it was born have changed and that today a PNRR of war is needed to address the issues that have become more acute at the time when one nation, Russia, has invaded another sovereign nation, Ukraine. That authoritativeness, which becomes authority, spends it in saying, quoting an old advertisement, "O so. Either Pomì', that is, either do so or go home. All those who until then had tabled penguins of amendments withdrew them because this agreement was found, yet another agreement to the bottom, on the skin of the beaches. We are talking about 30,000 companies which are virtually broken because Europe is paying us for this operation, as we heard earlier in this House. It is no wonder that the Europe of finance is paying for a sale of goods that are not scarce: as the reports report, the beaches are not a bad thing, so there is not even that premise to put them into competition. Nor is it surprising that Europe is saying that it is selling and that it is paying us to sell goods to multinationals, because that is something we have been seeing for several years. For many years we have heard that Europe has been asking for this, but I thought that that era was over. Instead, Europe, the Europe of multinationals, and not the Europe of nations and peoples, is calling for that era back. We do not give in to this economic fatalism, because we too believe that inflation and inequality are a problem. Of course, inflation has seen prices rise above all in the energy and agricultural sectors, perhaps because programming has not been planned. Will anyone take the blame for not having made the programming or is it the fault of the adverse fate? I believe that it is not the fault of adverse fate, but of those who have ruled this nation in these years and in the previous ones, so it is better for someone to have an examination of conscience before doing it to others. The same discourse is about inequalities, so much so that excessive liberalism has led to an increase in inequalities, not to greater equality, on the contrary I invite you to go and look at studies, even on the Internet in the absence of other sources. Inequalities grow when the State does not also deal with the market; liberalism has failed and excessive liberalism continues to prevail in this House, even on the part of those who should absolutely oppose it. I consider this measure to be a bad one, and that is why we have tried to improve it. You think that in the Commission we have also tried to make our own the amendments proposed by other political forces, knowing that many times the government has rejected them and then proposed them again perhaps in a subsequent measure because it obviously felt them to be of common sense. We were hoping that he would do the same thing, but nothing happened. In the Commission, the signatories themselves rejected their amendments, and I believe that this is the plastic demonstration of how the general interest was not pursued, but the purely personal one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u36	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u37	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on articles relating to the concessions for the distribution of natural gas and those of major hydroelectric origin. On the first, dealt with in Article 4 of the basic text, which has now become Article 6 after the move to the Commission, the League expresses partial satisfaction. The inclusion of this topic in the draft competition law had and has the objective to overcome the stalemate in the races for the reassignment of the concessions that lasts for more than ten years during which, by the 177 minimum territorial areas, very few competitive procedures have been carried out, also because of many, expensive and very long disputes. This is a stalemate which is effectively precluded from the country 20 billion investments in the sector, which are estimated over 12 years of the duration of the concessions. The basic text, which aimed to relaunch investments in the sector by accelerating the tendering procedures and which already positively, in case the Municipality intends to sell networks and plants, allowed to properly exploit the gas distribution networks owned according to the residual industrial value, also thanks to the contributions of the League has been little improved. However, more had to be done: for example, as we have proposed, to encourage and support the aggregations between companies in order to give greater competitive impetus in the competitions, thus reducing the current fragmentation that now records more than 200 operators, of which more than half that together cover only 20% of the market; or it should have allowed the Municipality to alienate its own networks and distribution facilities even before the contract of reliance of the distribution service. This is to better capitalise on its assets, which, on the other hand, run the risk of not being properly valued during the competition. Moreover, it should have been foreseen that the contracting authority should appoint the tendering commissioners by extracting them from a list of experts of proven experience defined by the Ministry of the ecological transition. I hope that I am wrong, but I fear that by approving this text we have not effectively amended the rules and, therefore, we have not created the conditions to promote the development of competition and to remove the many regulatory and administrative obstacles that do not favour the conduct of competitions. On the concessions of large hydroelectric derivations, now dealt with in article 7, the League expresses great satisfaction instead. With the approval of the amendment in the Commission, after the majority agreement, the basic text, which presented several critical issues that would worsen the current national legislation, has been positively amended. In practice, both the regionalisation of the sector and the procedures for renewing expired concessions are confirmed. [[Applause]] These, therefore, will be carried out by the Regions in compliance with the criteria and guidelines already established by the national norm, strongly desired by the League and introduced in the phase of conversion of Decree-Law 14 December 2018, n. 135, which - I remember - last year allowed to archive the European infringement procedure opened against Italy. We are very happy because in these two years the norm has resisted, last also during the negotiation on the plan of competition law, several attempts of some political forces that have tried to dismantle the regionalization of the field (and, therefore, demolish one of the first concrete forms of autonomy of the Regions), or to propose the extension of the concessions for - these the reasons - avoiding the arrival of foreign operators (forgetting that already now the majority of the operators of the hydroelectric are participated from foreign investors) and guarantee the safety of the energy system and the national autonomy energy. These are two aspects that are certainly important, ignored for many years and discovered only in the last few weeks, but that we are convinced will be pursued precisely with the renewals of the concessions. [[Applause]] Recentralising the management and extending the concessions, in fact, would have represented a tight entry against the regions that have already legislated or are providing it; it would have represented a huge gift to the outgoing dealers, who would have continued to make so many profits, confirming yet another wrong to the mountainous territories exploited without any return, with erial damages to be borne by Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and mountain communities of more than 10 billion euros; it would have violated the conditions laid down by the European Commission, which withdrew the infringement procedure provided that it proceeded with the procedures of reassignment of the concessions; it would have determined a third rejection of the extension by the Constitutional Court, after the 2008 judgment on the ten-year extension previewed by the law 23 December 2005, n. 266 and the second judgment of 2011 on the extension of five years previewed by Decree-Law 31 May 2010, n. 78. This is the victory of common sense. With the completion of the competitive procedures of reassignment of the expired concessions, wet goods, i.e. the properties of dams, gripping works, canals, tunnels and forced conducts will be relegated to the regions, and appropriate compensation will be paid to the affected mountain territories through appropriate water charges, free electricity, environmental and territorial compensation. [[Applause]] Finally, after more than twenty years of stalemate, a season of great investments will start to modernise and relaunch the hydroelectric, a strategic programmable renewable energy asset for our country. The investments will allow to realize actions of improvement of power generation and efficiency of the plants in order to produce more renewable electricity and, therefore, to contribute to reach the target increasingly challenging of energy from renewable sources and also to pursue the reduction of our energy dependence. The investments will allow to realize actions of technological and structural improvement necessary in order to improve the efficiency of the goods on dams and conducted in order to assure the better conservation of the volumes of invaded, to upgrade the systems of pumping and, therefore, to increase the ability to accumulation in order to greater safety of the energy system. [[Applause]] The investments will enable the improvement and environmental improvement of the catchment area concerned by the installation under concession, as well as the coordinated management of water resources, in order to exercise control over various aspects such as the management of lake levels and the need for irrigation. The investments will allow to give an opportunity to the Italian supply chain, known in the world, made of excellence both with regard to machinery and technology, and with regard to companies. This is not only one of the first forms of regional autonomy, but - I stress this again - the renewal of hydroelectric concessions, with investments in (new or existing) plants, is a driver necessary to aim for zero CO2 emissions in 2050. [[Applause]] The International Energy Agency is also said to be in its latest report entirely dedicated to this renewable source. According to the director of the Agency, Fatih Birol, hydropower is the forgotten giant of the energy transition, because investments have concentrated, and badly, are on wind and photovoltaic. On the other hand, the hydroelectric basins offer several advantages: in addition to producing renewable electricity, thanks to pumping they act as storage systems, they can provide flexibility services to the electricity grid and thus help to compensate for the unprogrammable fluctuations - I repeat - of wind and photovoltaic parks. In the world, hydropower, with a committed power of 1,330 gigawatts and a production of electricity of almost 4,500 terawattora per year, is the largest source of clean energy and produces more than all other renewable sources put together ( wind, solar photovoltaic, bioenergy and geothermal). [[Applause]] In Italy the hydroelectric park, consisting of more than 4,500 plants for a power of about 23 gigawatts, of which 4 gigawatts of pumping, and that in 2021 has supplied a production of 45 terawattora (almost 16 percent of national electricity, equivalent to 40 percent of all RES), thanks to this norm is going to relive a new great season. I would like to end by thanking Mr Garofoli, Mr Pichetto Fratin, Mr Bini, Mr Girotto, and above all the two rapporteurs, Mr Collina and Mr Ripamonti, for their great commitment in almost three months of activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u39	Madam President, the speech just made by Senator Arrigoni gives us a good reason to vote in favour of this bill (of course for the part concerning Senator Arrigoni's speech). However, we know that the articles are not few, but they are very, and on some of them there are shadows that have not been completely unraveled during these months of discussion. Perhaps I will be allowed to make some criticism, because it would be too easy, otherwise, if everything were all right. We would have liked, from the government and from some majority force, a greater awareness of the moment we are living, because talking about competition and the market is definitely important for the growth of the country. However, we must also take into account the time when we are talking about it and the conditions of those who are then forced to enter into so-called competition. For example, I am sorry to hear about the history, to hear about the beaches, taxi drivers or other economic categories, which come out particularly "flattened" by the economic crisis that followed the Covid, like the profiteers who harm the Italian economy. We know that there are conditions that have to be reviewed for years. We tried and did an important job with Minister Centinario. An acceleration made now, in this way, also tends to make public opinion pass, something on which we do not agree, a category image that does not really belong to those who care about their work and to whom we must give consideration. Mr President, I have previously followed Senator Lannutti's speech, which I have largely shared, but I have also listened to Professor Monti's speech, which I largely did not share and which has neglected one aspect. We must be careful that the current one is the moment when the Italian economy is more fragile and opening up to the market means competition, but it does not automatically mean falling prices and costs for citizens and final consumers. In fact, if the economy is fragile, this means, in a short time, approaching an oligopoly and therefore a synthesis made on the market by those who have more money, then creating cartels. Creating competition does not mean privatising, said Professor Monti. Of course, but the real lack of competition, on which we insist, is that of public administration, compared to other European countries, because here they impose themselves on the private market, on citizens, on companies and on our productive activities of strict rules, at a time when, as we have heard several times, we are in a war economy, while the public administration, as regards the efficiency that it should give to citizens, in terms of concreteness, continues to be far behind other European countries. [[Applause]] It is therefore not possible to claim competition only from private capital, craftsman, entrepreneur or trader, if it is not given as a State and as a public administration. The government has yet to take enormous steps on these matters, otherwise we will face inequality. So I like to remind Professor Monti, who knows very well what I'm talking about, that the Gini index, which measures inequality in the distribution of wealth, in Italy from 2019 to 2020 has gone from 34.8 to 41 percent. In this period Italy is more unequal and the country is more odd. That is why we must be very careful about the illusion that competition means cost reduction. I fear that at the end of the journey, if these competition reforms get hurt, the cost of bathing establishments, taxis and many of the companies competing will increase. We fought for what has been blocked for years, like hydropower, to really race, but we also fight for it to be considered the characteristics of the present moment, in which we are experiencing a particularly difficult economic crisis and, with this, are not made of very easy summaries, going to say of the productive categories that instead commit themselves to keeping our country in order and to make it work, which are unfair take advantage. Mr President, I repeat: we need a truly efficient public administration and then we can, in conscience, demand more competition from our fellow citizens than from other European countries. Otherwise, as I happened to hear yesterday at the 75th assembly of Confagricoltura Varese in which I participated, we limit our productions, we transfer them abroad and then we go to complain that deforestation is done in the Amazon or in some country of the East, when we no longer produce on our territory, because we must have all the beautiful green woods, but then we demand the competition of a market, which does not look - as we look at - at precise rules and environmental values. On this there is a little hypocrisy, in demanding competition and charging the cost to others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u40	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u41	Mr President, first of all, we would like to denounce the umpteenth institutional scorn that is taking place in this House. President Draghi's pressure for the approval of this bill has no equal. The hypothesis of a vote of confidence is a serious outrage to Parliament which has passed into the general silence of all the institutions. By the government that defines the best, by President Draghi, who has a vast majority at his disposal, we would have expected much more and something different. On the other hand, this Government continues to proceed by votes of confidence - fifty in a little more than a year - and by pressure, as it did on this occasion we are talking about, delegitimizing the role of this Parliament once again. We want to remind President Draghi that the difference between the members of this House and his person is that we are legitimately elected representatives of the people, while the President is an expression of a government born of palace games. President Draghi always complains about the quarrels of the parties that support him, but what did he expect from this government that is so heterogeneous? We of the Brothers of Italy have always said, from the first day, that this majority is too different to be together and cannot bring anything positive compared to all these acts that we see approved in this House. In this bill that we are about to convert into law, in fact, there is nothing good to save. Inside there are provisions that literally cry out for revenge. Our beaches were sacrificed for the estate of a majority who lost face, lost dignity, but obviously is not losing the chair. Only the Group of Brothers of Italy has remained to defend 30,000 Italian companies that today are being expropriated their activity of a lifetime in the name of a competition that is all but fair competition. As we have said in these weeks, in these months, a small company cannot buy the multinationals that will come once again to Italy to shop and grab many excellences built with years of sweat and sacrifices. This agreement reached by the majority these days is embarrassing. Do you really think that these compensations will restore dignity to those to whom you are deceiving the bathing establishments that have laboriously built, started, made jewels that have brought up the name of Italy and our sea in the world? We do not know how much these compensations will amount to, when they are paid, on the basis of what criteria will be granted and how they will be calculated. The agreement reached by this majority to allow the shameful application of the Bolkestein Directive is based on a "we see then." The truth is that the owners of today's bathing concessions have been left without any kind of protection and then don't tell us that the beaches are a caste, as I heard in some intervention before mine, that they pay ridiculous costs for their bathing concessions, meanwhile because the amounts of concessions established them by the Ministry of Economic Development with an ad hoc decree and therefore if there was the need to increase them there was enough a decree. But nobody talks, not even in this House, about the costs that the dealers themselves have to bear, which are tenfolded in relation to the cost of the concession, for the rescue at sea, for the buoys, for the cleaning of the beach, for the storage. Nobody talks about this, Mr President. The truth is that with this bill Italy not only gives the sovereignty of all its beaches to people we do not know today, but also gives its sovereignty to the European Union. The serious thing is that only Italy is accepting these impositions. Spain, Croatia and Portugal have extended their bathing concessions. We do not understand why Italy could not do the same. I'm gonna finish. A righteous government would defend its "family jewels" with its nails and teeth. A government with sovereignist traction would never make discounts to anyone in order not to perpetrate the disaster that is taking place today. But a government such as the one in office, which has only its own survival at heart, cannot do the national interest, less so with a majority divided over everything. We of Brothers of Italy will never tire of asking you to acknowledge the failure that is on the whole line. Step aside, do it for the good of the country and let the Italians choose who they are governed by. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u42	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u43	Mr President, we are also here today and we will - alas - be talking about one of the many reforms connected with the PNRR in the coming weeks and months. I would very much like to be able to call them reforms and, unfortunately, we are faced with agreements, agreements made by a majority, which even a young boy with the first arms in civic law would understand, in order to contemplate everything and the opposite of everything every time he has to make compromises downwards. Nor do such compromises often express the will of the parties that support the majority, who often come under the dictatorships that are likely to come from Brussels. My colleague, Mr Calandrini, said this earlier: but why don't you look around? You talk so much about Europe, then look what they do in Spain. In Spain the beaches are protected because they consider the beaches of goods and not services. [[Applause]] Look at what they do in Germany and Austria, where hydro-electric concessions are constantly being renewed by whistling bans. We Italians, on the other hand, obviously have to suffer the Brussels Diktats and immediately put the concessions to competition, expropriate the beaches. To do what? To make more efficiency and competition? No, it's not exactly that. You see, our tourism has always looked at the specificity of our country. Always look at those bars, those beaches that are characteristic of families expression of Italian individuality. Well, you will want with the new bans put coasts, bathrooms, bars and restaurants of our beaches in the hands of the multinationals. You would like to have many Nestlé, many equal structures that no longer identify a origin and a territory, but represent only an interest and above all an interest that comes from foreign countries. That's what the National Emergency Government is doing. The emergency is what you are causing with this Government, which - I repeat - no longer represents as a parliamentary force the majority of Italians and which, moreover, no longer represents the forces that support it; forces that do not have the courage to give it distrust because they know very well that they will go home. This is the dramatic situation in which we find ourselves. Instead of making C-series reforms, I would then like to make a proposal to Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, whom I esteem and who I know that on these issues he thinks like me, and at the same time I do it to the friends of the League, who certainly did not have much satisfaction in their first Count government in approving citizenship income. Let's make a reform that finally meets the needs... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u44	Senator Airola! DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Shut up and let people talk. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, don't force me to formally call you back a third time. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). The education of those who want to teach young people to live with support: this is the Movimento 5 Stars. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Bertoldi, conclude and address yourself to the Presidency. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). You want to teach young people to live as a state begging. We want young people to go to work and invest in work and not in the income of citizenship. So, dear colleagues of the League, dear Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, we do a reform done well: we immediately cancel the income of citizenship; we invest in the active policies of work, in our businesses, in those who want to do; we invest in the education of young people, who must learn what the sacrifice and taste of work is and not do the parasites at 800 euros and maybe gain then in black with the submerged what they lack.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u45	[[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u46	Colleagues, let's get this straight. The Presidency does not allow interruptions and, above all, epithets addressed to colleagues as they intervene. [[Comments of Senator Dessì]] Senator Dessì, I'm formally calling you back. Do not force me to expel you from the Chamber, please. It seems to me that on the issues of liberalism and state intervention we are hearing many perspectives, all equally discussed and discussed. Please, Senator De Bertoldi, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u47	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, some things hurt, it hurts to express what we hear from our businesses. I come from a tourist area and every day in my Trentino I have bartenders, restaurateurs, people who work fifteen hours a day who tell me these things. Then here in this House we find the apostles of citizenship income, with whom I would like to compare so much in the electoral campaign. Come to the campaign...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u48	Talk to the Presidency, Senator De Bertoldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u49	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I repeat, therefore, the invitation to Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin for the Government to have the courage to go beyond half-reform. I am thinking of the reform of the tax system, Mr Vice-Minister, a reform that is disgruntling everyone and that is why it is not being done; I am also thinking of the reform of public works contracts. There are many reforms, therefore, because perhaps, with some artifice, they convince Brussels to grant the quotas of the PNRR, but they do not convince and do not serve our country. Brothers of Italy will always be with Italy, with the Italians; with those Italians who want to work and with those companies who want to get up at 5 in the morning and work to grow our nation. We invite the Government and, above all, that part of the majority that would belong to the centerright to take note of it and to give a turning point in the sign of the efficiency and effectiveness of a country that looks ahead and teaches young people and future generations that we can still make it, that we can still be protagonists, but we do not want to be passively assisted. The money... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u50	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, competition law is obviously a complicated matter, which should be done annually, even if this is not the case. It goes to touch live meat of the country, interests that - it is useless to deny it - are also legitimate, of operators, artisans, small entrepreneurs and various realities. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of hydropower, which has caused a great deal of debate in the Commission: we have opened up to market rules; other European countries are well guarded from opening up to market rules the management of a resource that, especially in times of international crisis, military and energy, is precious. I am not here, however, to talk about hydroelectric resources or other issues. I would also like to speak on the subject of bathing enterprises in order to make some clarifications and some clarification. Meanwhile, I too, like other colleagues, thank Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin for the patience with which he was confronted with the parliamentarians - it is a duty of the Government to do so - and also with the categories, but more could and should have been heard. I want to say to the Government - I do not say this to Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin who was careful - and to the President of the Council that, if there had been a critical situation concerning the steel sector or other sectors, such as rail, certainly the most representative unions of those sectors, the CGIL, the CISL, the UIL and the UGL would have been received at Palazzo Chigi and listened. There was a possibility of listening, but not adequate, to the operators of the seaside world, because they are self-employed. There is not, in fact, the "fabbrica del mare"; the factory of the sea begins in Ventimiglia, arrives in Santa Maria di Leuca and goes back to Chioggia and covers the entire long Italian coast. So, there is no factory with the workers, but there is a myriad of dealers (30,000), fixed or seasonal workers with their families. And there is no proper respect on the part of the Governments for self-employment, because the greatest exponents of the great organizations that are the head of Confindustria, Confcommercio, Confesercenti and other associative realities of the country should also be heard. Probably the Government - Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, I do not tell you that he did - and the technicians, who are so patient and experienced, must learn the struggle of democracy and listen to the categories. There is not only Landini in this country, but there is also self-employment. [[Applause]] It is right to listen to Landini, it is right to listen to Sbarra, who said very wise things also at work, but not only. Before I heard the squabble that happened: this morning the president of Confindustria Bonomi said that the Minister of Labour Orlando is looking for the job to navigators. The navigators, dear colleagues, were the ones who had to look for the job to those of the citizenship income: they did not find the job to anyone and they are losing it themselves. It is pure assistantism, that of the logic of citizenship income. Can it be said in Parliament? I think so. It is necessary to assist the real needs and not to create clientelisms harmful to the productive economy, even in these sectors that have low availability of labour, because either you want to work in black, preserving the income of citizenship, or you are content with the income of citizenship. But we'll talk about this another time. As far as the bathing industry is concerned, I want to debunk some lies. It is also written in the ruling of the Council of State that this sector collects 15 billion and pays 100 million: that is not the case, because that figure of 15 billion is invented, because on the coast there are the establishments, the restaurants, the hotels, the pensions, a myriad of activities. So, what do we calculate: all these activities? And if they paid only 100 million for the concessions - but that's not the case - on those activities I imagine they pay VAT, Irpef, taxes, salary of employees. So, a series of crap is said and the Council of State has issued a judgment based on lies. [[Applause]] The decision of the Council of State contains lies: let us be clear. Another question to be solved: if you do not do the competition law with the bathing rules, you lose the PNRR money. It's another lie and whoever says it - Deputy Minister Pichetto, you don't say it - is a liar. He is a liar, because the PNRR is conditioned by some events; the competition rules are needed, but those of the bathing concessions are not mentioned. Let us be clear: they must certainly be regulated. Then there is the decision of the Council of State based on lies, there is a judgment of the Cassation, but there are also others, because days ago the TAR of Lecce referred the matter to the European Court of Justice, asking the European bodies whether or not the Bolkestein Directive applies to bathing concessions. We do not think it applies, because it concerns services and not goods. Here are some concession goods and concessions are cheap. Then increase the price of the concessions those who cash the money. On this invitation also the bathing associations to be more determined in giving us figures, which I also sometimes struggle to obtain. If they say they cash 15 billion and pay 100 million, it seems crazy to defend this category. But that is not the case, because those 15 billion are not 15 billion and contain a myriad of activities, taxed and overtaxed, which create jobs. You have to explain these things. But even if the bathing associations share and do not explain to the country how things stand, they make legislative activity more difficult. In this surgery I have for everyone. It's an Italian specificity. Years ago, I was in Parliament and President Monti - now I do not see him in the Chamber - was in the government: I went to him, who had lived for a long time in Belgium, with a European map - even then there was discussion of the extension of concessions - and I showed him that the story of the beaches was only in Italy, in the South of France, in Spain and in some other European country. In other parts, environmental and climatic conditions do not allow the development of a bathing activity. Therefore, we must defend an Italian specificity. And I claim my action at that stage, during the Monti Government, of the extension of licences to 2020. I claim the action that with the then minister Centinario, with Senator Mallegni and others we have done, with Law No. 145 of 2018, for the extension to 2033: law cassata by the Council of State with a sentence that contains lies on the figures, copied from leaflets of associations that dispense lies. I am sorry and the President of the Council of State should find out more. I say this in Parliament, recalling its responsibility and respect for the truth, which has been trampled on. I am talking about the President of the Council of State at the time - and not the current one - who has changed in the meantime, having gone to the Constitutional Court: blessed him. We want regulation, which has been delegated to the implementing measures. There was a tough confrontation, and then we'll see what European justice will decide on the Tar di Lecce appeal. In 2023 there will be the ordinary term of the legislature. I don't know who's gonna win the election. I hope that my political side, the center-right, will win. I also remember, on the state of implementation, that the start of races must be done by the end of 2023, but that there is written - and this we claim - that, if there are disputes - and there are - or difficulties, the date sled at the end of 2024. There will be elections, then. If the implementing rules or those adopted today are not clear or appropriate, we say clearly that we will change them from top to bottom. So, this is an experimental discussion phase. We will have to make the decrees delegated and we trust in the actions of the Ministers delegated to this, starting with Minister Garavaglia. The opinions of the parliamentary committees will intervene and we will not just be witnesses. We had a few words removed that had been inappropriately included in the text. Sometimes the war of words seems to end in itself, but it is not. For example, the remaining term is no longer present in this text and we claim this. The quantification of compensation, the principle of compensation, has been stated for the benefit of those who lose the concession with a tender. The quality of the guidelines, the investments, the work and the realities that have been created must be defined on the basis of the criteria to be met by the delegated decree. When someone claims that we defend abuses, I say that abuses are brought down, they do not defend themselves. So, those who have abuses along their coasts move: send the guards and send the competent authorities. Here we do not defend abuses: we defend Italian work. Then, if the concessions are low, they adapt; if there are situations of abuse, they are cut off; but, if there is work, which means reception for the tourist, respect it. That's the thing. There are no lobbyists, but there is a job that concerns tens of thousands of realities. In the implementing decrees, Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, we will demand respect for family businesses, respect for those who have long made historical enterprises, respect for the work of those who have improved some places. If someone speculated, they should be punished regardless of this law. But if someone has made the beaches accessible and has contributed to safety, which serves and needs to be implemented for rescue and for many other aspects, he deserves it. Other countries have different regulations. Europe has been more attentive to Italy than to other countries. But - as I once said to the President-in-Office - Europe must be more concerned about those who live on the beaches of Odessa than about vexing those who live on the beaches of Riccione or Fregene. We defend a piece of Italian economy. We need transparent rules. If they are not adequate, they will be deleted. Laws are made and changed. We have made an extension to 2020. We have approved Law No 145 of 2018, which provided for an extension to 2033, but the Council of State, with a judgment based on lies, has dismissed that rule. If, after the elections, we have the majority - but this depends on the Italians - if the rules that will be adopted are not acceptable or appropriate, we will delete them in order to make others, which respect, yes, competition, but fight speculation. We don't want any smarts or colonizations. I am not afraid of the assault of the multinationals, which we will oppose in any way. However, the rules must be such that dozens of concessions are not allowed in bulk. The work continues. We have defended and will defend an Italian resource, because tourism, the coasts, the beaches, the seaside businesses are part of our culture and our tradition. There are people who work without the parasitism of navigators and citizenship income. In fact, those enterprises are damaged by the income of citizenship. Therefore, we from the masters of parasitism do not take lessons; if anything, we give them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u52	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteurs, Senators Ripamonti and Collina, for the great work they have done over the last few months and, together with them, all the members of the 10th Commission and the various committees which have followed each other and have made their contribution to improving the competition measure; Deputy Minister Pichetto and Undersecretary Bini, who are always available for a constant and constructive dialogue with the parliamentarians; a measure that is improved after the work carried out in the Senate. Having seen the work of the last few months, I cannot fail to reflect on the separation of powers in our system and in particular on the role of Parliament, which is increasingly limited to merely ratifying decisions taken by the Government, which should instead be the executive body of decisions taken in parliamentary bodies. Certainly the pandemic, before, and the war, now, did not help, but it had become customary also in the previous legislatures to see an occupation of spaces by the various governments on purely legislative competences, on issues that must be dealt with in the parliamentary classrooms by those who are elected by the Italian citizens and represent them. If Parliament finds improvements to the text proposed by the Commission, we should all work in the same direction. The measure in our examination is fundamental to the obtaining of the funds of the PNRR and also to avoid that infringement procedures are initiated against our country. It is absolutely necessary, however, to understand where the balance lies between the interests of Europe and those of Italy, because sometimes they are conflicting and a simple flattening on Europeanistic positions does not mean doing the interests of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are frank and aware: without a reform of the public administration for the simplification of procedures and the deburocratization we will not go anywhere. [[Applause]] ; a public administration often oriented towards maintaining its status quo, which relieves and dumps on citizens all kinds of burdens and responsibilities, almost forgetting that those who choose to work in this area should have as I do the interest of citizens rather than become the office complications simple business. Without this reform the valuable work done with this bill will also be watered down. In addition to the subject of bathing concessions, which has been raised more to the news, local public services, energy, waste, transport and health care are among the measures addressed. The Members who preceded me and those who will follow will enter into detail and substance of the various issues. Personally, however, I propose a reflection on the companies in house to remember how often the municipalities have often constituted these companies because the market did not offer solutions and it is not or was not economical. Just think of the services that connect morphologically difficult territories to reach. Parliament's work has also taken account of these aspects. The last thought goes to the great work done on the issues of health, where we have tried to find a balance starting from the fundamental need to ensure effective, appropriate and safe treatment routes especially in cases of particularly serious and disabling diseases. Monitoring and control of all facilities providing health services is essential to ensure the quality of services, fair access and eliminate opacity where health services are provided with public finance charges. A very important work has been carried out on equivalent drugs to make them readily available while respecting intellectual property rights. Research must continue fully in the interests of all. Finally, starting with the conclusion, the Italian blood collection system is an example of excellence worldwide and, with the changes introduced, the concept of free and voluntary donation is confirmed. In these months an important and complex work has been produced in the interest of Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u53	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u54	Mr President, senators, senators and representatives of the Government, first of all today we are debating the draft competition law and I would immediately send back to the sender all the narration for which no work has been done and there was a need for a vote of confidence. Very careful and thorough work has been done thanks to the expertise of our rapporteurs, whom I thank for the work they have done. Competition rules, however, are an essential element in European integration and, in the absence of misunderstandings, allow the entrepreneur to compete on a level playing field on the markets of the Member States. This is the starting point in this debate. In particular, I would like to talk about the subject of bathing concessions. Since it was part of the majority, the Movimento 5 Stars has been a builder of solutions to which the political sector has so far left too much space and even today in the Chamber we have heard a lot of referrals to the sender, still creating difficulties and uncertainty, lack of answers, proposing temporary solutions made of extensions or proposing to delete laws. These are all harmful actions for a sector, such as tourism, which can only be growing. For years these sectors have been abandoned, left in fear, indeterminateness and doubt. [[Applause]] That is what is being said in this House and on which the election campaign is being held. We are also going to say that difficulties are being created. But I ask myself one question: do we know that extensions are bad for businesses? Do we know that businesses and takers get scared in front of this? Without clear rules, entrepreneurs stop, they don't invest. Do you know that promising unenforceable laws gives no solution? Above all, the joke we have heard here again that you should go and beat your fists in Europe doesn't make anyone laugh anymore. They are jokes that you have told for too long and that have illusory entrepreneurs who have stopped and have not invested in their sector. This has created problems for a sector that has not been able to develop properly since 2006. Politics must give certainty and the 5 Star Movement is taking this responsibility. When you sent us to the government, we took responsibility for dealing with the issues. It has been a very important step and we will give this sector the great opportunity to invest and to believe in it. We have faced this path with President Conte more than once. Unfortunately, on two occasions someone wanted to stop the innovation process in this sector, but it is not a problem. To the draft budget law (draft law n. 2448 of 2021), with the signature of the Senators Turco, Croatti, Faith, Catalfo, Ricciardi, Lupo, Piarulli, Trentacoste and L'Abbate, we have tabled amendment 180.0.4 - I say this so you can go to check - that follows the path we have taken with President Conte and, since it has been interrupted twice by two political actions - in my opinion - externally flowed, we have re-submitted it in the budget law. Now the theme has become a base point and for this reason we of the 5 Star Movement are extremely proud to finally be able to give certainty to the sector. [[Applause]] The position of the 5 Star Movement is in favour of businesses, in favour of owners and those who say otherwise and know they lie. [[Applause]] You have chained the tourism sector for too many years in uncertainty and lack of responsibility. You created fear, you prevented it from growing in an important way with the scarecrow that foreigners would come to take away everything. They can do it now, but with certain rules it won't happen again. We have created three positions, giving a balance between conflicting interests between them. The first is the State, which needs an asset that is valued. We have already begun this process with the minimum fee created with the Government Count II. Then there are two other important actors. Companies must be protected. I am referring to the companies that are currently working in a serious way and those that must be able to enter the market under the principle of free market and that, if put all under the same conditions, have the possibility to grow the sector. There is also a third very important actor: the consumer, who is often willing to be denied in this House. The consumer must be able to use that property freely, professionally, correctly and sustainably, without paying, and by paying privileged services, by carrying animals or by having disabilities. All these people must be protected and above all they must be removed those gates that have been placed by some entrepreneurs who have felt owners of that space. [[Applause.]] 13:32 p.m. (Follow CROATTI). Since 2006, the first correct exercise on this issue has led us to the budget law to defend the interests of Italian citizens. Be careful because now we will pay great attention to the implementing decrees of this path especially to those who have done building abuse in this sector, they have allowed themselves not to pay taxes and put gates because of which people had to ring the bell to go to the beach. Our mayor Virginia Rays had already started this path and now we're going to take it all the way. [[Applause]] Finally we can free those entrepreneurs and allow them to make investments, innovative actions and sustainable spaces. We can strengthen our tourism offer, improve employment and create transparency and above all clear rules for everyone. Since 2006, no solution has been found in this space. Today, at last, we have found a starting point for an important journey. Thanks to us we close a sad page of policy ridicule of these years and a new phase of certainty opens that will certainly create a new space to build an important future for our companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to vote on contains, among other things, a significant acceleration in the process of liberalisation of the hydroelectric sector in relation to concessions of major derivations, which could substantially and potentially coincide with a significant privatisation process. Over 70% of hydroelectric production is related to concessions that are totally public, controlled by territorial authorities, or participated by a public majority by the State, even if listed (Enel or always territorial authorities). Despite the fact that on 23 September 2021 the European Commission closed the infringement procedure on the specific subject, given the dramatic change in the global and national scenario, attention should be paid to how and how much the acceleration process provided for in Article 5, on the basis of a specific PNRR objective, contrasts strongly and clearly with the objectives unanimously agreed in relation to the current energy transition process and the necessary implementation of urgent measures in a context in which serious and unexpected additional emergencies are added, as well as those already present in the context of the planetary crisis, namely climate change (the talk of pandemic and post-pandemic shock, energy shock and war shock in Europe and related global consequences). As the Copasir clearly reminds us in his final report on the study of national energy security, transmitted to the Presidency of the Council on 13 January, Italy was the only European country to have introduced, more than twenty years ago, a competitive regime within the framework of hydro-electric concessions and to have recently modified the rules, making possible participation in competitions of foreign operators, but under a regime of non-reciprocity, since the other European countries apply a protectionist regime in this area. This statement, clear and unequivocal, which highlights the exposure of our country to asymmetrical competition compared to other European countries, which not only do not foresee any kind of openness and liberalisation, but are on the contrary operating extensions in total absence of races. See, for example, the extension of the French State to the concessions on the Rhône until 2041, already approved by law. If we combine this European regulatory asymmetry with the cogency of having to experiment with European competitions for the award of concessions of great derivations, as provided for in the legislative decree simplification of 2016; with the financial bubble present on the market of renewables for the first time for decades, which has reversed its downward cost trend due to the grabbing of green plants by the finance industries and especially the international ones; with the bureaucratic constraint that binds our public enterprises with respect to the regulatory flexibility guaranteed to foreign operators, who could participate in competitions with particular aggressiveness (the so-called dumping); with the substantially public characteristic of the current industrial structure of management of the national hydroelectric system, here is the risk of irreversibly compromising a piece of system of the national electricity generation, which, unlike other sources (solar and wind), has the characteristics of being a strategic industrial and technological capital. I would remind all my colleagues that this energy source has special quality characteristics which make it irreplaceable. I list some of them. It is the largest source (40 percent) as a generation capacity among RES; it is the most stable and programmable among renewable sources; it has the ability to restart the national electrical system in case of blackout; it contributes to the safety of the national electrical system thanks also to the ability to operate on the island. The acceleration impressed by the draft competition law on tenders and concessions related to large hydroelectric derivations does not reach the effects that aims to a process of liberalization and privatization, because of the industrial operating peculiarity of the reference market; it causes the immediate failure to relaunch strategic investments in the hydroelectric sector; it could lead to a significant limitation of the natural and necessary technological evolution in a market activity such as that of the electricity generation; it risks exposing the Italian hydroelectric to the mercy of foreign operators, without any balancing or opportunity for national operators. It would therefore be necessary to allow operators - such as France, for example - to propose extraordinary investment plans estimated at around EUR 10 billion by means of mechanisms to extend the duration of the reallocation of concessions. I note, however, a clear contradiction from those who support competition in the hydroelectric field and then states the exact opposite when it comes to forms of liberalisation in the context of the concessions of bathing establishments. The result is that the beaches are considered strategic, rightly, but not the main source of renewable production in the country, while a war is taking place at the gates of Europe and we risk, next winter, the rationing of energy. I think this is very worrying. Other considerations concern the particularity of the territories of the special self-governments. The public hydroelectric companies operating in the territory of the Alpine arch, which are part of the reference bodies, the Valle d'Aosta Region and the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano in particular, represent the system's leading companies. They are healthy companies, managed efficiently, as evidenced by the budgets, with an operational management of the very delicate hydro-electric infrastructure not only of great quality, but that takes into account the specific peculiarities and territorial needs. The path of the rule of implementation of the Special Statute certainly represents an important step to guarantee the autonomy of the management of the delicate aspect of the contests by the Autonomous Regions. But the legislative news that we are going to vote puts in objective difficulty the territorial authorities owners with reference to the powers provided by the special Statutes themselves. Moreover, to date, the fees provided by the law are also added to the dividends of the participating company, while with the privatization they would divert the same dividends to private companies, probably foreign and probably operating in the oil and gas sector, given the market condition in which the renewables are located. With the approval of this bill, depending on the outcome of such tenders, there is certainly a risk of compromising the sustainability of the competences attributed by the State to entities with special autonomy. I also recall that public management has always maintained high levels of security in the management of large infrastructure. In the event of a change of private management, will this aspect be so important? In conclusion, in expressing my concern, I hope that the debate in the Chamber of Deputies will remain open and that a correction can be found to the worrying consequence that this measure, if finally approved by the Government first and then by the majority, will lead to non-positive consequences for the national energy system and for the territories of the special Alpine autonomous regions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u57	She is registered to speak Senator Giannuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in starting my reflection on the law which, unfortunately, as far as I am concerned, we are going to adopt in this House, it is important first of all to remind those who listen to us what the competition law is and why we have one every year. To put it briefly, the European treaties require us - literally - to promote the development of competition as a preferential economic mechanism, and this requires us to regularly review regulations, in order to comply with the ideality of this mechanism. Everything is based on Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU), which contains the principles on which the Union of Member States is founded. It states that the Union is working for the sustainable development of Europe, based on a highly competitive social market economy. So we can say, without a subject of denial, that we are within a geopolitical union with a strongly liberal ideological matrix that, if we are convinced that liberals, is clearly fine. It is not as good if we start from the conviction, or even from the vague feeling, that liberalism is the mortal disease of every humanism, with its hypocritical invocation to economic freedom for all, which, by its inherent nature, resolves itself in the economic tyranny of the already strong on the already weak. Returning to the draft competition law, because of this ideological approach that comes from the European Treaties, every year we are obliged to produce a law mostly like this, containing a series of delegations to the Government to modify or innovate rules that are from time to time considered obstacles to the more free deployment of the market. If we look at the recklessness of having signed treaties of this kind, why would it be useless to talk about it now, the question that is useful in my opinion to ask us today for our purposes is another and that is why we are forced to become liberalists and necessarily to decline norms that deliver our entire fleet of goods and services totally to the market, giving up for lost and surpassed as by now obsolete state protections, which, whatever it may be said, are well included in our Constitution, as we know in this House? The answer is no and I say it as vice-president of the European Union's political Commission, where we are confronted every day with the possibility of asserting, even in the links of the Treaties, our national specificities or, more simply, our inevitable desire not to adapt to standards or principles that we consider harmful to our country-system. The answer is no, I repeat. But Italy seems to be plagued by dangerous collaborationism when it comes to pleasing anyone but herself. [[Applause]] Let us see, in fact, what Europe was asking of us at this juncture and what this law contains. Article 17 of the European Regulation 241 of 2021, which I quote because it is the act of reference for the elaboration of the notorious PNRR, of which this law in turn is a corollary, provides that the recovery and resilience plans eligible for financing under the Facility include measures that may also include public schemes aimed at stimulating private investment, so - as is normal, in fact - Europe indicates a possibility certainly welcome to its policies, but always a mere possibility. Now let's go see what was instead included in the competition bill, under the hat of the reason of state. I shall dwell briefly on Articles 8 and 16, which are, however, representative of the spirit of the entire law. To understand briefly the substance of Article 8, which headlines "Delegate to the Government in the field of local public services," it is interesting to read what the Council of Ministers itself says in its press release of November 2021, when the draft law was passed. It is said: In order to improve the quality and efficiency of local authorities and to rationalise the use by local authorities of the instrument of in-house companies, including through the provision of an obligation to demonstrate by local authorities the reasons for non-use of the market, rules are introduced to redefine the discipline of local public services. Ergo, the municipality has the burden of proving that maintaining local public services is better and if it does not or does not convince, it has the obligation to give them in management to private companies. Horrible is the verbal hypocrisy of this passage. The government calls it rationalization of the local authorities, but in fact it is an act of discouragement for public bodies to resort to the companies in house, loading them of the burden of proof or indicating them the direction obliged to the private management of all the services. So we were obliged to do this from Europe? Evidently not, we said it a while ago and so we can also here deduce - without the issue of denial - that the present Government is the bearer of its own conviction that private is more beautiful. In a word, this is a Government with a strong liberalist approach, which, as I said, is fine if you are liberal, but if you are not, it is good to be aware of it in this House, because many of us here have received a political mandate, which is perhaps far from this imprint and to which perhaps we must be able to return for better inspiration. [[Applause]] Article 8, in fact, should not appear indigestible only to consciences not openly liberal, but should make even those who, for example, have spent and still say to spend themselves on public water, on which this law, in spite of the referendum of 2011 - it is well to know - puts with this article a tombstone. But this law, more generally, should not be indecent only to non-liberals, it should rather provoke indignation in the entire Constitutional Arc, which has thundered so much in recent years of the pandemic to unified voices in favour of public health for its enhancement, for the restoration of its excellence. In Article 16, dedicated to the accreditation and agreement of private health facilities, the only concern of the Government seems to be to guarantee as freely and quickly as possible the accreditation of private health facilities in the Region and does so by eliminating the institution of temporary accreditation pending controls, replacing it with a form of accreditation tout court without caution. It does so by replacing the performance cost parameter, in an area where the cost is vital parameter of possible measurement, the random one and imponderable of the quality, clearly opening to a renewed season of the rising of the costs for the health services. In words, therefore, we have all dreamed of better public health, but in fact this Parliament is shamefully giving way again and again to the pressure of the health professionals, to the detriment of the health of the citizens. You definitely didn't have to. Colleagues, it is well known that among the majority forces there have been and are perplexed about this law and that something has been tried in the amending to improve its worst aspects. Faced with a law that will change the country as we know it (because it will modify the Municipality by Municipality), that will change its socio-economic skeleton, that will slaughter the last protections for the less well-off and that, for the truth, promises very well also for the middle classes, let me say that the screen of being within this Government, evidently indifferent to the country and heterodirected by also economic forces to control its moves or to avoid the worst or "responsibility" - all these reasons are felt here - compared to the moment that we live (the pandemic, the war), if it is politically unacceptable always, it becomes discoverably absurd now, in the face of proceedings like this that of the country as we know it will leave nothing, like a total war. Last week this House commemorated Berlinguer and the previous week was the turn of Giacomo Matteotti, both bright personalities in our parliamentary history. To observe today the scenario of its history, of its dignity, hostage of a Government that today even from your speeches seems wanted by no one but perhaps by a single international careerist, among other things blatantly refractory to the basic principles of democracy, is to the gaze of a citizen lent to the infinitely painful politics. I therefore wholeheartedly wish all of us and the country a glimpse of memory that brings us back to the sacredness of our mandates, to our supreme sovereignty that comes to us from the people over every other power constituted and that makes us pass through this House from commemorating our Fathers to honoring them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Giannuzzi for this passionate intervention, which I have allowed to complete, despite the gesture of disappointment of his new Parent. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u59	Mr President, I will not dwell on the general considerations that my party, the Brothers of Italy, has expressed throughout and wide through parliamentary acts, media interventions and in all sauces. However, may I first express my heartfelt thanks to Senator Daniela Santanchè, our Holding Company in 10a Commission, which through a Carthusian work, supported by the legislative of Brothers of Italy in an amending phase, has managed in a competent, comprehensive and precise manner, allowing us senators who have alternated within the Commission, to carry out our work brilliantly. I was talking about the need not to go any further than the general aspects. Let me, however, in this case too, express at least two critical points. One is of a cultural nature, compared to the model that has been introduced in this measure that we are going to approve today: a regulatory model totally unrelated to our commercial attitude, to the proximity between demand and supply. This model represents the consolidation of an economic system that favours large groups and strangles small operators. Finally, with regard to the critical aspects, I would like to focus very briefly on the aspect that has characterized the part of the measure that has dealt with the concessions. We have said this in all sauces and I repeat this: the directive was absolutely not applicable to the granting of state property. Going further, there is one aspect that interests me in a particular way - perhaps few have noticed it and I want to remember it today here, expressing all the bitterness that can be expressed - and for the umpteenth time regards the treatment that has been reserved to the world of sport. Well, all those concessions that refer to sports clubs, even moral entities that occupy state property, have not been taken into account at all. Above all, this happens at an increasingly difficult moment in the world of sport, the pandemic one, which sees a further mortification added to the previous ones, which have already in some way made our world the protagonist in negative, if we consider the lack of assistance that came from the Government for the resumption of sports activities, despite this lack of attention to sport had been specified precisely within the Bolkestein directive. In re-reading the part of point 35 of the preamble, which quotes what we have also said in our amendment: "Non-profit amateur sports are of considerable social importance. Such activities often pursue exclusively social or recreational purposes. Therefore, they cannot constitute an economic activity within the meaning of Community law and should not fall within the scope of this Directive. These are not the words of Brothers of Italy, but those contained in the Bolkestein directive. As I mentioned earlier, we are talking about historical associations, such as the Naval League, the National Salvation Society "Genoa," reservoirs and remieres attributed and entrusted to sports federations that have achieved important results also for Italian sport. There is an element of which nobody has taken into account, which also concerns aspects related to the safety of our beaches: the whole supply chain - and I say all - of lifeguards and assistants to bathers was formed within the Italian sports organization, often and willingly within those sites. We will therefore go into question the very safety of our beaches, because the training aspects will inevitably enter into crisis and we will have not only crises of vocation, but crisis linked to the possibility of enabling - because there will be no more places - those who will carry out this important function in terms of safety. I am going to conclude, since the time I have been given is short, although it has been enough to express these concepts. The great national heritage represented by volunteering, by the world of non-profit, has been mortified through this attitude and the patch - therefore the remedy that has been used - has proved worse than the hole. Going to make a mix between commercial activities and non-profit activities, as has been done within the measure, is an offense, is a legal abortion and will complicate even more the life of our sports associations. Sport did not deserve this umpteenth mortification, all the more so because, not later than two months ago, we approved the inclusion of sport in our Constitution. If good morning is seen from the morning, evidently this statement of principle will no longer take us anywhere. Mr President, we are far from giving sport the dignity it deserves, but we, the Brothers of Italy, will do everything in our power to ensure that this does not happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u61	Mr President, I would start by reading where the truth lies, that is, the legislative source, because this bill is born on the basis of lies. The first thing I want to read is an extract from Article 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is prevalent with regard to any kind of Regulation or circular that has subsequently been issued and also to any type of guideline contained in the PNRR: being the primary source, everything obviously runs out. Article 106 concerns the qualification of services of general interest, which may be of a general economic interest (SGEI), of a general interest (SGEI) or of a social interest (SIS). Well, Article 106, former Article 86 of the Treaty on the European Community, gives Member States the qualification of what is a service of general interest and also gives some examples: local public transport, which is within this bill, or waste management. So the answer, in case you want to protect the issue of local public services, so water, waste and local public transport, was in Article 106. Then there is Article 12 of the Bolkestein Directive, which says that, even in the cases of the assignments of concessions, and therefore in particular of the bathing concessions, it is possible, given the specificity and in any case the fact that it is a general economic interest, to classify them as SIG (Services of general interest): therefore, it is only twelve years, in which the answer has been sought from another party. This is to say that at a time when it is said that extensions or such things have been necessary, it is not actually true. The second premise, then I proceed to enter medias res, is related to the birth of this bill. We had a debate: on the one hand, the President, who says that if this bill is not passed, we lose the money of the PNRR, which is our money, partly given back on a tight run, partly loaned to choke, and, on the other hand, who says that it is an issue that the European Union has imposed on us regardless. So, you have to get on with it. Indeed, if the President has stated something clearly false, then it means that any provision contained in the measure, where it is possible to invoke the article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is intended by policy and is not imposed by anyone else. To this I relate what my colleague, the rapporteur, said in the Commission, when he said that it is true that the European Union does not require anything to be entrusted to the private sector, but because we have taken the political decision to switch to another type of service management, then it is normal that we go on like this: PD. This means that the choice is exquisitely political and no one is imposed. Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's. So, let's talk quickly about the state concessions, in this case clearly about the coasts: it has been said - and I think it is also right - that we could not continue with the extensions, considering that the last extension made it by the yellow-green government, ensuring until 2035 the possibility of going ahead with the extension regime. Well, the answer to all the problem, which has been made the problem of bathing, was once again within the framework of the Treaties of the European Union, because it is only as a "neuro," which allowed to solve it without making it a problem. It sufficed to invoke the clause of specificity and therefore to remove from the scope of the need to open up State concessions to competition. But it was not done; it was told to the beaches that there would be perpetual extensions, deceiving them, because it is true: the extensions hurt, but told by who then approved the extensions, allow me, it makes a little'smiling. What do I see as serious about all this? In the criteria of the delegation for the assignments it will be written that will be privileged also the ability or the promises of investment of the proposer. Then, a great manager, in the absence of constraints on the splitting of concessions, can certainly make investment promises greater than a small one: this is obvious. So, in fact, there can't be an equal race between the elephant and the ant, especially if no one has put a kind of handicap on the elephant. So the question of bathing, which could have been resolved in other ways, was deliberately left to rot like this, until it got to give birth to this. Let us go on, let us talk about hydroelectric concessions: Mr Lanièce has talked about this quite well. The problem of hydroelectric concessions I put it more simply so: suppose that a public manager, like CVA (Compagnia Valdostana delle acque; let's continue to talk about Valle d'Aosta), decides to build a new large derivation, which is either 20 cubic meters medium per second, or a basin plant; all new, project-specific, fully functioning forced conducts, swinging to 100 percent and no reduction of invading capacity. He gets the concession at 25 and then loses it. Well, as soon as he lost it, there is no guarantee in this bill that the successor will be in possession of the perfect facility, as it was originally. We are now in a situation in which the successor should pay compensation without knowing what he is taking, because there is no line on what criteria the plant has to meet for passing by. For example, as far as the efficiency of the pipelines is concerned, do they respect the dictates on the losses of load or have their qualities deteriorated? On invading capacity, is it complete as per project or not? Was he flattened? There's nothing, not even on mechanical organs, like turbines or electric ones. So, you pay a flat-rate compensation, and then you fall exactly in the same case you mentioned earlier. What investments can you afford to restore the work to its full original efficiency? This is a question that remains and will always remain. Therefore, a line or two, which provided that the State, as a concessionaire, would not wash its hands of it and control the efficiency of what is on the property and is given in a concessionary form, needed. No, you don't. So, once again, I only see a scalp to take to someone to get our money back. As for local public services - waste, local public transport and everything that follows - the most serious thing is that the public is asked to demonstrate, in a qualified manner, that its management has been as efficient as possible. I expect the private to be asked the same thing. This so invoked private man, where was he when a viaduct fell to Liguria? The one who was never called to prove that his management was the best ever. At a time when all these stakes are missing, it is clear then that we want to go towards another type of private management and the rapporteur has also said so. This to get you don't know what, except an obvious worsening of the service. Every time it is a SpA, for which the remuneration of the share capital is fundamental, it cannot reinvest everything, because it has to distribute dividends to the shareholders, it will certainly never be able to do the same level of efficiency of a company in house, which has as sole task to reinvest in the maximum efficiency. These are services of general interest that had to be completely taken out of the scope of privatisation. But, of course, this too has not been deliberately done. The same applies to the TPL. We want to entrust local public transport to private individuals: but a line or two in which we talk about costs for users? Because the TPL is partly subsidised by the State, given the public service that the TPL offers, which is to remove private traffic from the roads. A cost checker? Because if you take money for a foster care, you have to ensure costs that are consistent with those that the public would do, that it has no need to profit. This is not competition. The WTO wants the States to be merely administrators and never touch the ball, rather they burn down: this is the WTO in Italian sauce, in Italian Parliament sauce. I conclude by saying that, if we are to be like the WTO, then let's be clear, instead of continuing this ripple between the Senate, the House and the Government, looking for who is right and who is wrong to get something more in terms of electoral consent, selling something that none of you has in your pocket. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u62	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u63	Mr President, the annual competition law is one of the most important reforms that the Italian Government has written in the PNRR and it is a real litmus test. It is the litmus test of the reformative will of the Government, the Parliament and the ability of this country to implement the Next Generation EU. Senator Collina has said this very effectively: with the PNRR we have entered into a real contract with Europe. The Next Generation EU is a programme based on national plans, which are investment plans but also reforms. The Next Generation EU closely binds the allocation of resources allocated to individual member countries, which for Italy are over 200 billion euros, to the respect of the objectives that individual member countries have written in the national plans. Now we as Italy in 2021 have achieved all 51 goals and in 2022 we have 100.45 in the first half and 55 in the second. The approval of this bill and its delegated decrees is one of the most important and qualifying objectives of the second semester 2022. To approve this bill and the decrees delegated is one of the key points in order to obtain, let us not forget, the instalment of almost 22 billion euros previewed for the end of the year. The draft law, presented by the Government on 3 December 2021, is a complex and articulated measure, as the speakers and all those who intervened have said; it is a measure that generally collects the specific recommendations for the European Commission's country, but, in detail, the reports of the Italian Authority for the guarantee of competition and the market. It is a law that in its original version consisted of 32 articles ranging, as has been mentioned, from state and maritime concessions to large hydroelectric derivations, local public services, patent links, the issue of digital platforms, non-scheduled public transport; a truly wide spectrum of areas in which action is taken. The complexity of this bill and the scope of the interests involved are certainly the most important reasons of the long period of time, five months in fact, that the Senate has taken to discuss this bill at first reading. Mr President, it has also weighed heavily on a profoundly different view of the issue of competition between the political forces of this majority, which are forces that express, I mean, different points of balance between the protection of the general interest of consumer citizens, who have the right to access and benefit from services of better quality and lower cost, and the safeguarding of the particular and legitimate interests directly involved by regulations that are more favourable to competition. Mr President, the Democratic Party, I want to say very clearly, does not share the position of those who theorize the goodness always and in any case of competition even in areas such as school and health, where competition has been practised far too much in this country. We believe in balancing interests, listening and the composition of different instances. We believe in a social market economy that has an essential reference value in free competition, but it also cares and deals with the losers of competition, entrepreneurs and workers who have been dismissed too often in the past as an annoying impediment to the primacy of market laws. This is our vision. It is a vision far from a liberal approach, but, Mr President, it is also a vision far from a right of government and opposition, which has inspired it over the years, and we have also seen it in the discussion of this measure, its political action to a link between a neo-corporative, sovereignist, Eurosceptic political culture and the gigantic conflict of interests of its highest political reference. All positions far from the idea of competition, which has been evoked by some interventions today, and it is a combination that produces a paradox: liberal proclamations that remain systematically on paper and battles that sell the defense of position annuities for the protection of businesses and jobs. This is the political historical context in which the discussion of this bill was also held. In this objectively difficult context, I believe that the rapporteurs, whom I would like to thank, and the 10th Senate Commission, have done a positive job. A positive listening work because we had a duty to listen, particularly on some particularly sensitive issues, to all stakeholders, because no one can claim to have the truth in his pocket, neither the Government nor Parliament, and the rapporteurs and the Commission I believe that we have done a good job of summing up the different positions. A tiring and not always optimal work - I mean starting from the positions expressed by the Democratic Party - but many of our proposals have been collected, it must be acknowledged, too. I would like to focus on one point for the economy of time, which was, however, the most significant one, not by chance the last political node dissolved in 10a. Commission: the regulation of bathing concessions, which is as old as the Bolkestein Directive, which was launched in 2006 and transposed into our legal system in 2010. That story has been dealt with for years with extensions, finally the one until 2033 wanted by the yellow-green government. Mr President, in fact, for years she put her head under the sand, with a short-sighted logic that on the one hand extended a very undefensible situation, with the State collecting little more than 100 million euros of annual fees in the face of a turnover estimated at 15 billion euros each year; on the other hand, the logic of the extension left in total uncertainty 30,000 companies and 300,000 workers who for years relied on that logic, but in reality had no certainty of the future of their activities. It is to the credit of the Government not having once again put its head under the sand; indeed it is to the credit of the Government to have responded quickly to the decision of November of the Council of State, which has torn apart the extension to 2033 of the yellow-green government and with great sharpness has substantially rejected it. It was up to the Government and Parliament to draw the consequences of that pronunciation. However, it is up to Parliament (and it is a very important one) to set a number of targets to ensure that future selective procedures, starting from 2023, are as sustainable as possible from the social point of view, because there are 30,000 companies and 300,000 workers at stake and we cannot apply abstract recipes to that and to other situations on which this bill is concerned. On a key point, the issue of compensation to be granted to outgoing dealers has been mentioned; the calculation criteria will be defined by the decree-making decree; however, I would like to say, Mr President, that the senators of the 10th The Commission had achieved a common vision on a number of criteria and principles in determining such compensations and we ask that they be taken into account by the Government when building the delegated decrees. This method, the need to continue, at the time when the delegated decrees will be written, that work of patient and tiring listening and confrontation that the rapporteurs and the Commission have put in place in recent months, is, I believe, a crucial point in building delegated measures that positively complement the work put in place by Parliament. Some parts of this bill will be discussed at second reading by the House of Deputies, starting with the sensitive issue of non-scheduled public transport. The work done in the Senate has overall improved this bill and will facilitate the achievement of an objective that we must all work towards: the definitive approval of the law on competition within the summer break and the decrees delegated by the end of the year, putting to mark - it is a moral duty that we have towards this country - a fundamental component for the implementation of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience and for the relaunch of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u64	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u65	Mr President, this morning, in preparing my speech today, I was trying to understand what the differences between positions in the field were, and fortunately, Mr Misiani helped us just now, solving the problem. That's exactly what happened. Therefore, as Mr Gasparri said earlier, to continue to say that a category pays 100 million and cashes 15 billion is a falsehood that only that Council of State could say. I would like to say that there has been some sort of underground organization; I have no proof of it and therefore I cannot say it, but there has been a whole series of issues that have gone one after the other. In addition, give credit to the Government which, together with the Council of State, broke up Law No. 145 of 2018, within which we fought to include an extension to 2033, clarifies the positions in the field. That's where we started. I started to say in my speech where we were. We were very, very bad: from the lies of the Council of State to pretending that there was no TAR of Lecce that had put everything back to the Court of Justice of the European Union, to hope that someone would seize the beaches, as had already been done in Liguria. It seemed that the Republic Attorney had nothing but to do to kidnap the beaches from the bathing establishments dealers. No certainty to plan investments, another problem: in recent years almost 100 percent have dropped because of the uncertainty we had before, while before they represented the driving force of the national tourist system, because tourism is born there. What does it mean to defend businesses? I know it's an unfamiliar subject for someone in here, but if it's not the companies that pay their taxes and keep up the bureaucracy and palaces system, who pays their taxes? Who stands up for the democratic system? Businesses. And what is the largest national industrial system? I'm asking because we're still hanging around. Let's get a little busy. That it is tourism, which directly accounts for 13% and, as a result, almost 25% of gross domestic product? Do you know how many people are employed in the tourism sector? More than 3.5 million people: families, people in the flesh. Pretend this doesn't exist, so it seemed like something weird. We had to exercise our sense of responsibility even when, after filing the draft competition law in January, the Government at some point presented itself with the seaside amendment. We told him: does it seem normal for a piece of gross domestic product to be thrown there in any way, with an amendment to the competition bill? It wasn't enough, though. There has been the commitment and discussion of everyone. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Pichetto Fratin, who has taken action in this House, and my colleague, Mr Gasparri, from whom I have learned and I try to learn a lot and many things often, in particular on the battle of the beaches (which I, as mayor, and he, as a Member of Parliament, have already done). But that was not enough. Even a letter came (and it was not even Christmas period) to the second office of the State by the government, in which it was written: boys hurry, we must do quickly. This letter came to Parliament. We've lost sight of the basic rules: Sovereign parliament (strange stuff, but we remember the Constitution) and Executive, which does what Parliament tells him. Here, however, we do everything the others say: we make the laws that the Council of State asks of us and we kneel before the Government, which tells us to walk and go fast. If that is not enough, we have also called for a Council of Ministers in which in eight minutes we had to drink or drown (talking about bathing, it looks good): eight minutes, we put trust and everyone at home; if they don't move, we go straight. All this happens on a bill: you write a bill (while it should be Parliament), you send it to the Chambers; in the meantime, you also make an amendment, then you write the letter to the President of the Senate and finally you also ask the question of trust. But where have you ever seen such a thing? How do you choke the discussion like this? And then what happened? Since it was not good to speak only with political forces, they also tried to enter into relations with the social forces, but they did not take them together, as Mr Gasparri said, in the logic of the first Republic, in which we spoke with the social partners and then wrote the rules in the interests of workers and businesses. No, she took one at a time to try to demolish the front; and someone took the bait and also put us in trouble, to us who were there to defend the interests of businesses and workers, and that is serious. Despite everything, however, we fought our battle, we went ahead and wanted Italian tourism not to speak a foreign language: we did not want to do what Mr Lannotti said before, that is, to make the state spend 21 billion to do someone a favor, to make the pockets fat, but that is never talked about. We said that the outgoing dealer had to agree with the successor, not go to put his hands in the pockets of the Italians, as happened with the ASPI (and I stop here, because I think it was well explained already at the beginning of this session). Italian tourism must not speak to the foreigner; it must speak to the foreigner, but not to the foreigner. Italian tourism must remain a fundamental cultural aspect of our country. Today I was listening on Radio 24 a professor who said that we should not focus everything on tourism and that, where there is tourism, we must also look at other things. Then it occurred to me that in Capri we could open a box factory; or in Florence we could open a nuclear power plant, right in Piazza della Signoria (in my opinion there would be space). Are we out of our minds? Italy must focus on that system, because it represents hundreds of thousands of people, businesses and gross domestic product. People from all over the world come to our country (first destination sold in the world) because we are different in Capri, Forte dei Marmi, Pietrasanta, Portofino, Riccione, etc. It is the diversity of the country that makes the holiday: how can you not understand? Someone else, claiming the need to go in the direction of total destruction and to race everything, so we do first, says that competition decreases prices (I heard it this morning). But where do you live? Today there are already 30,000 concessionaires of bathing establishments, which compete with each other! Think of Versilia, where I live: there are 436 bathing establishments, each with a different peculiarity, from 5 to 400 euros. Everyone has a choice. Tomorrow, when the race is done, the fees will be increased and everything will be increased, the prices will also increase, I tell you. There's gonna be one thing upside down in this case. Then what is the solution? It was only social envy, desire to destroy. We have put our hands on our consciences, worked in the general interest of businesses and brought home three things: time, compensation and values. We brought time home, because until 2025 things remain like this and in 2023 we hope to win the election and change everything again. We brought home the compensations, which is historical in the history of Italy, because it means deleting Article 49 of the navigation code. We are happy and happy with what we have done. However, all that preceded this moment was a tragedy. This morning I heard the Movimento 5 Stars say to remove everything, the gates on the sea, and these others talk about taxes and destruction of businesses. We won't allow it and we won't let it! [[Applause]] Forza Italia today brought home a result and in 2023, winning the elections, will again be back to support directly, face-to-face, the seaside tourism companies and the Italian ones in general. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u66	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u67	Mr President, I am very proud to be able to help represent what may be the most significant innovations in the health of the future, contained in Chapter V, on health. We have already had the opportunity to stress, on many occasions, that we need more stringent controls, so that the national universalist health service can meet the needs of the coming decades, ensuring health and protection responses to fragility, with appropriateness, quality and safety. Many of the treatment settings have changed and there are many opportunities offered by predictive medicine, artificial intelligence and personalized medicine, with diagnosis and targeted and early treatments: treatments that have proven the validity hoped, to the point that we can say it has also done a good round of buoying on the side of oncology care, with innovative drugs and advanced therapies. New opportunities that will be made possible under conditions of equal accessibility, thanks to the reduction of waste, affecting the mechanisms of programming and regulation of supply, according to principles of transparency, traceability to health data ecosystem, valorization of capacities and effective excellence. [[Applause.]] It is true that the treatment will be increasingly expensive and therefore a system of evaluation, monitoring and control of the uses and results of the services provided will be increasingly necessary, which, thanks to the implementation of the registry of the persons assisted, finally at national level, will make possible the implementation of the electronic health file, after more than ten years of hesitations and uncertainties. [[Applause]] This is a truly historical innovation, that the former Article 13 of the draft law, which has now become Article 16 of the text proposed by the Commission, proposes to systematize, linking it to the essential importance of contractual obligations and of which the Government must be given the solemn recognition of having co-thought and transposed the proposals of the legislative, I believe with sufficient possibility of success, aware that it is a first step and that it will be further refined, both on the side of public-private and social-health equality, and on other possible uses of the health card, including avoiding the repetitiveness of the recipes, whoever is the authorized prescriber, or any future green pass, since the vaccination data must all be uploaded in the anagraph in real time. [[Applause]] The new rules, in fact, will allow to enhance the prevention and marginalization of prescriptive and dispensing inappropriateness. This will enable us to address, with sustainable spending, issues that would otherwise be unbearable for the overall burden of emerging needs and the costs of research and innovation. This, in addition to generating savings, will prevent innumerable waste of time from the assisted citizens. After many hours of work, we have arrived at a rewording of Article 13, as I said before, referring to Article 16 of the measure under discussion, which goes in this direction, going to update and evolve the rules of accreditation first and then contractualization, including supplementary and complementary health for what it actually serves and applies. [[Applause.]] This work, promoted by the League, but supported by all political forces - including opposition - which I thank, as proof that, when the interests of future generations are at stake, the opposition is also constructive, we can really support the entire legislature alone. [[Applause]] , because the pandemic has taught us how indispensable it is to have a health care that works. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Faith.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u69	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, today we come to the conclusion of this path of the competition decree and I must say that speaking last leaves me a great responsibility, but also many doubts about many things that I have heard and that I sincerely think will leave the Italians shocked, as they have left me dismayed. Let us focus above all, within the framework of this draft competition law, on the aspect that has caused this decision to last until the last moment, until today, that we cannot deny was the issue of bathing. The bill deals with many important issues for our life and that of our nation, but that of the beaches was the topic that led us to discuss and to confront each other. We must therefore explain this well, because the Bolkestein directive, from which the whole matter originates, dates back to 2006. This Europe is often described as a stepmother, a bad, inadequate Europe, of which we have been part for a few decades, for over sixty years. The question then is: when one complains that Italy has not been understood for its morphology and its differences, what has done, in seventy years, who was there to represent it? [[Applause.]] If they were there and did not explain what Italy is - clearly none of us went to the beach in Germany, Belgium, Holland, but all Europe came to our beaches - then the Italians wonder why this uniqueness and beauty of our nation were not represented and why they were not valued. This is first and foremost the question of the Italians. As Caio Tito recalled to the Roman Senate a few millennium ago, verba volant, scripta manent, so what matters is not the chatter, the chronicles made in this Chamber, in the newspapers or in the debate, but the official acts, which bear names and surnames. It is important to remember that, because this damn Bolkestein directive was not dropped, but someone implemented it in Italy in 2010. Since I do not want to go as a polemic or as a person who is not precise, I read the names that sign the Bolkestein directive: Berlusconi (president of the Council of Ministers), Ronchi (minister of European policies), Scajola (minister of economic development), Alfano (minister of justice), Maroni (minister of internal affairs), Frattini (minister of foreign affairs), Tremonti (minister of economics and finance), Brunetta (minister of public administration), Calderoli (minister of legislative simplification), Brambilla (minister of tourism) and I also add that there was a young minister for youth, Giorgia Meloni. [[Applause]] Today I heard so many stories, so much talk and so much hypocrisy from people who tore their clothes, but they are the ones who signed this act. One thing is certain, because then the considerations leave them to us: in those years, only one party was not there, the Movimento 5 Stars. Someone was lying under other names, but changing their names is not enough to change their identities. People who have been in here for 30 years could do everything they told the Italians today and didn't. So the chatter is at zero, literally, and this thing has to be said, because then to the chatter someone believes, like those strange speeches that are made in summer, maybe in August, at midnight, with a glass of mojito in hand, so you lose some concentration and you risk to overtalk. Unfortunately to these chatters the first who believed were the state-owned dealers: people who, yes, paid a very low amount, but paid what, was asked by the state. When it comes to a category and a competition regime, Europe must not ask us to do so. Italy must be able to exploit its heritage. When I think that, of the 30,000 concessions, over 70-80 percent pays a minimum fee (2,500 euros), it means - we remind the Italians - 200 euros per month of rent to work [[Applause]] - because this is what entrepreneurs do - on the most beautiful beaches not in Italy, but in the world: Italy in fact, however, you turn it (between Sicily, Marche, Emilia-Romagna or Tuscany), is a wonderful country, that everyone envy us. And we gave this capital to those who legitimately took it, worked on it, valued it - for this we must also thank them, because if our beaches are more beautiful it is thanks to the work of these people - but we forgot to make the adjustment of costs. We asked them only 200 euros and they gave us: if we go to the restaurant and offer us a lobster for 3 euros, it's not that we say: no, I want to give you 50, because it's worth so much; you ask me 3 euros, I give them, it's natural. So the first responsibility is not of the beaches, but of those who were to protect this work and did not. In this path, we arrived at the end: it was as it was, we worked with Law No. 145 of 2018, which also bears our signature, and we did it with a sense of responsibility and with the political force that was with us in the Government, because anyway we had to solve this thing and we put our hand in it, because we did not have the parameters to be able to define it immediately. Of course, by paying fifteen or sixteen years of delays, our legal system has acted differently with all its institutions - this is Italy - and we have reached this short circuit. We note this, but we must not forget to work on solutions. With regard to the solutions, already in the budget law with amendment 180.0.4 - it is bad to talk about numbers and data, but this is - signed by Mr Mario Turco, by Marco Croatti, who is here with me, myself and other colleagues who have already been mentioned, we had proposed one. This is because we have never missed our work towards all the Italian categories, including that of the beaches, which we have never seen as enemies, as someone told. We also worked knowing that it was not our electorate and we say it clearly: it was not our electorate. Someone else caressed them for so many years and then betrayed them, but it's not us. We have therefore made this proposal available to us. Clearly, the government - and we are pleased - with its ministers (and the first signature of President Draghi and Minister Giorgetti), has put forward the proposal we are talking about today. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Collina and Mr Ripamonti, and all the political forces who have exercised this maturity, which is now being put into practice with a vote, in order to improve this text. So this work has been done by the whole of Parliament, less a part that says it's not good, which is what I was talking about before (the one that signed it), but that's okay. There have been many responsibilities and a great deal of maturity on our part too, and the proposal today speaks of concrete things: the dutyful protection of operators, because one cannot charge an expropriation to those who are not guilty, but that of having acted according to the rules that we had. I think of the 20 regional laws that regulate the different Italian nature in 20 different regions and alas - it happens - even there is no government of the Movimento 5 Stars. So, where we are, we work consistently, with maturity and with concrete proposals. We then went to propose all the things that are in this final measure: there are substitute amendments, we talk about enhancing the beaches and the work of private activities, as well as ensuring accessibility, work and entrepreneurs who invested. Let us not forget, in fact, that there are people who made investments a short time ago on the basis of existing regulations, which we must protect. This is our commitment, but we must work to ensure that this good can be enhanced and enhanced. We did. I would like to conclude by thanking all my colleagues and reaffirming that our work has always been correct and never hypocritical. I am really going to finish, saying that now the implementing part - this is important - will compete with the delegated decrees and, beyond the fact that many are postponing the ball after the election campaign, there will be the commitment of the various Ministers, which I would like to mention: the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility Giovannini, the Minister of Tourism Garavaglia, the Minister of the ecological transition Cingolani, the Minister of Economy and Finance Franco, the Minister of Economic Development Giorgetti and the Minister for Regional Affairs and the Autonomy Gelmini. Good work, then. We will be there and we will be vigilant to ensure that we have a good structure and a good standard. [[Applause.]] Enough with polemics such as that on the income of citizenship: here there are no citizenship concessions, but you have to work for the interest of Italy and Italians, without doing nonsense, that are useless. We're here and we're gonna work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u70	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Ripamonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u71	Mr President, I have listened carefully to all the speeches that have been made in these more than three hours of general discussion. I believe that there have been pertinent and exact interventions on the spirit of this bill. All my colleagues have highlighted the work that has been done by the Commission, the Government and the rapporteurs, so I will not dwell on this, in replying but I will make a general reasoning. As I said before, perhaps removing a few pebbles from my shoe - but I think it is legitimate to do so, even after the much work done - I did not like the acceleration that at some point someone wanted to give to the approval of this bill. I did not like it in the way, in fact, and this is because I have lived it: I have experienced this measure strongly, the more than 100 hearings, the countless round tables with stakeholders and countless comparisons with the social partners and with all the majority forces. I therefore found it inappropriate to speed up what we were asked for exclusively in the method, because the awareness that work should be done, that it should be done quickly, but above all that it should be done well we had made it quite clear, Mr President. No one has ever escaped and no one has ever thought, not even for a second, of not bringing down the work of four months. Then I do not mean how much work we have done and how much has been lost in the reasoning of bringing together in this provision Chamber and Senate, to prevent there being alterations of involvement. I repeat that I did not like the method. I have a clear conscience, from this point of view, so I feel good about myself, I feel like I have to, and I'm somehow convinced that I'm taking the ball back to the other side of the field. Despite all the work that has been done (on the hydroelectric, on the services, on the derivations of gas, on the whole part of health care and on everything that colleagues have said), this measure seems to be only linked to the seaside world. In short, I cannot help but talk about it myself from this point of view, partly because I am the son of a land that has given so much in terms of receptive activities and bathing. Someone said that we all have a little responsibility: it is absolutely true, as Senator Faith said before, and whoever is without sin throws the first stone. No one here can throw a stone. We've all put in some of ours. I claim, Senator Misiani, with great force, beyond the fact that I appreciated his speech, Law No 145 of 2018: I claim it with great force, because it was a law that for two years Europe has never contested. That is a fact: he has never contested it. It happened then that politics did not have the strength to finish the job. When I said before we made a commitment to Europe and to this bill we kept it, I wanted to mean that every now and then, when we claim to make delegated decrees, we should really do them and I put them all in, because it concerned the first and second Count Government. Then comes the judiciary, which marks a point: there - again Senator Faith is right - the chatter is at zero, because a decision of the Council of State has arrived, which was very clear. Some people like it, some people don't like it; some people say it's not applicable: it's a matter of responsibility, because some people have a store with a written above, we're responsible for what we do, someone else has a store with a written on it, we don't have any responsibility. I do not say that it is illegitimate, I say that it is easier to say that on certain aspects and on certain topics it is necessary to do otherwise: therefore no to Bolkestein; therefore the expropriation; therefore you have made an agreement to the bottom of the table; therefore you have been dishonest to the country and so on. This chatter is at zero, because there is a Council of State and the responsibility that every Member of Parliament must assume at this stage is to ensure that those who have such a judgment on their backs are not abusive where they have been working for a hundred years. It can never be, because if someone comes and seizes that beach, then the game is closed. At the time we had these three fixed points: compensation; ensuring that there was a reasonable time, even through the hope that the ANCI had put in place, when it asked for more time to do things; the rewards. I cannot dwell on compensation, because I can assure you that I too have a clear conscience and I believe that Mr Collina has it with me, because at some point in the debate the issue was either residual value or value value and we were firm in words; the climate that was created at that time was no longer sustainable. We couldn't do it. Then I say that perhaps, at this stage, it is better for the Government to deal with it, but I would ask for a great effort and a great test of confidence in those who are currently on our beaches: set up a conciliation table immediately one minute after the adoption of this bill to start writing together the rules and criteria for compensation, because that is where we give great strength to what this Parliament, with great difficulty, has done. I will not dwell on the rewards because they are written very well within the bill: small businesses, family societies and those with experience are rewarded. We also managed, as my colleague Collina would say, to get away something that was badly written (the expression that also included those who had an experience in public goods, who wanted to be able to put in even those who have experience in water pipes, for example). We said it was difficult to give a reward in this sense. Well, we have done so and we have done much more. I shall conclude by making a reflection that may not even be my responsibility, in fact, but comes from one of the first speeches I heard from the opposition, which drew to this very famous unity of the center-right. Well, I accept the challenge, but the unity of the center-right would have wanted to see it within the Dragon Government, to allow the center-right to have a wider negotiating force. This has not happened and I cannot excuse you for this! I can't excuse you! [[Applause]] You have a written sign that is not your responsibility. It's legitimate. You will monetize, but probably, from this point of view, the call to the center-right was basically out of place. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u72	I call the rapporteur, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Members who have spoken in this long general debate, which is a demonstration of the important and quality work that has been done. It started from different positions, in fact, on many themes and reflection and confrontation led us to identify shared and also important points of fall. I should also like to thank the opposition for the kind of parliamentary behavior it has taken, because we are here today, however, to close this measure. The responsibility towards the country, in fact, also passes through the respect of the times, which allows us to deal with our tasks with the resources that will be given to us by the European Union. I think that the work that remains to be done in the House has, however, received, from the experience that we have done here in the Senate, the example of a positive confrontation. Therefore, even if inverted parts, the House will be able to deal with the other articles that we still deliver to them in the version of the basic text. It was a new formula for comparison, but we managed to complete it. I should therefore also like to thank the House's colleagues for their contribution and all the Heads of the majority, the House and the Senate, for their help and understanding in allowing us to get to the bottom of this approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u74	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u75	Mr President, on behalf of the Government too, it is not only by rite that I begin my speech with thanks to the President of the 10th The Commission, the rapporteurs, the members of the Commission and the structure of the Commission, which has followed us in recent months, the Members of the House and the Senate, who took part in the majority meetings, but also the Heads of Group and the opposition, for the reasons which the rapporteur, Mr Collina, mentioned earlier. May I then make another thanks: perhaps someone will say that the Government thanks himself, but I thank the structures of the Ministries, who were many to be involved in such a complex measure and the confrontation has been tightened; then I thank the Department of Legal Affairs of Palazzo Chigi and Minister D'Incà; I thank the Undersecretary Caterina Bini, who managed at my side the whole phase, also of comparison, in the context of the majority; I also thank the Undersecretary for the Presidency of the Council, Roberto Garofoli, who, minute by minute, has consumed messages with me, together with the Undersecretary Bini . This is therefore a thank you for the work because it has been different from the other measures. The importance of the issues and their multiplicity, through the powers of many ministries, led us, with the tolerance of the opposition, to majority meetings that did not take into account the ordinary procedure of voting in favour or contrary to the amendment, but rather analyzed the whole of all the amending proposals. This complex and the issues to be discussed in this area of Parliament have led to the construction of the final wording from the basic amendments. I also thank the opposition because it is fair to say that Article 3 (sorry but for the numbering of the articles I still refer to the original bill) which would correspond to Article 5 of the text approved by the Commission on the ports, was built starting from an amendment of the Group Brothers of Italy to the first signature of Senator Santanche because it was the most complete and it was the one on which one could work best. That's why there was everyone's contribution. So at this point the government was given, both in the regulatory part and in the part of delegation, the strength of a virtuous synthesis with clear commitments and with the common objective of protecting what are Italian companies and the values of our Constitutional Charter, which recalls the theme of competition and of course its social value. It is a matter of going to promote those that have been the interests of the country, of course seen from the political side. That is why I am speaking in response and I do not intend to open a debate. I should also like to add that the evaluation part of the implementing decrees will be fundamental, and on this the role of Parliament will become fundamental again, even in the invitation to the Government to agree to follow the parts indicated in the law with today's approval, or that they will become so with the third time (because we are at the first; a second time will be in the House and then there will be the additional times with the third reading in the Senate) and the part that stems from the important debate that has taken place within the political forces. On this I mention the measure on the beaches, which however with the various rewrites represents a contribution towards a position that leads to recognize the value of the company. When I talk about the company, I'm talking about businesses and not rents, let's be clear. Of course regarding this there are also the evaluations that refer to the goods, the so-called immovable ones, that there are on the state property, remembering that however, as has been said in some interventions, there is a space of derogation to the code of navigation, came into effect in 1940, that instead it is very rigid in the appraisals of the goods of the outgoing concessionaire. However, the navigation code is also as rigid, as has been mentioned in some speeches; Article 52 - if I remember correctly - concerns illegal goods and construction. So on the point there is no derogation as in some parts it has been considered. There have been many issues and they are important at this time because they concern the freedom of enterprise, the recovery of our economy. They concern the tourism sector, which affects 13% of gross domestic product, of which the bathing sector is an important part. We have focused a lot on the maritime sector, but there is not only that; in fact we are talking about the tourism, recreational and sports sectors, but they also concern another important and current front more than ever, that is that of energy. In fact, as well as ports, we have dealt with gas and hydro, which perhaps up to a few months ago could have been elements in which competition was assessed purely, but today more than ever they are an element on which competition is assessed worldwide. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a point. With regard to the change that we are also experiencing in view of the geopolitical balances of the future, of which none of us can define the contours to date, the step we are making is an effort that comes after five years from the previous competition law. This text must lead us to an adaptation that will, however, determine, not only in the implementing decrees but also in the successive measures, further steps compared to a world that will no longer be the one in which we have lived in the last thirty years. From this comes the need for extensive evaluation and comparison by all political forces. The measure under discussion also takes action on new issues. Article 29, which has become Article 33 in the Commission's text, deals with the dominant positions, a reality which we did not have. I am not quoting any of the speakers because I should like to quote all the speeches, but I would like to refer to the speech by the President of the 10th European Parliament. Commission Girotto, who talked about the risk of having two or three players for each sector. Article 29 refers precisely to the attention which we must pay, precisely to ensure competition with our business system, to the risks of dominant positions on the part of the large players who control the networks. This is an attention which the Italian Parliament has put forward and which has been the subject of a very lively debate in the Commission in the context of the majority. The same applies to other issues, such as the hydropower system or the issues affecting in-house companies, including the responsibilities of local authorities. A mechanism that provided for a kind of authorisation has been corrected, but controls remain strong; the choice must be justified as to whether to compete either on the market or that it can be competitive and in the public interest not to compete. This is an important element and is the result of mediation. Certainly the mediations never satisfy everyone, as they do not make everyone unsatisfied. However, I believe that this is an important step in this area of Parliament and an important reform. On behalf of the Government, I would ask Parliament to pay the greatest attention in the next path, which is that of the implementing decrees. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u76	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which I will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u77	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u78	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u79	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u82	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, we would like to point out, also in the light of the speech by the rapporteur of the League on the measure to which our colleague Mr Iannone will reply more fully in an explanation of vote on the overall measure, basically three issues which have been the subject of the sub-amendments we have tabled in Article 2. These issues are basically the "no" to the Bolkestein Directive, resulting in the "no" to the auctions and, last, the "no" to the expropriation of Italian work. Let us say this, because we believe that the Bolkestein directive should not be applied with regard to goods and services. In our opinion, this directive should not and should not be applied on goods. We have said this in a thousand different ways: there were the conditions for opposing it, but obviously neither the Government nor this branch of Parliament have done anything for this to happen. Consequentially - as I said before - we remain opposed to the auctions of a fundamental structure for our economy that are our beaches, on which 30,000 Italian companies have founded a tourism of excellence, which has made Italy one of the most sought after destinations in the world where to spend the summer holidays and not only. Finally, let's also say "no" to the expropriation of Italian work. As you all know and we know, with this measure we take away from 30,000 companies the fruit of the work of a lifetime, treating the holders of these concessions as a caste of privileged. Mr President, we have also heard this in this House; we have heard that the beaches are a caste of privileged people. However, no one has said that if they have paid minimum concessions, the responsibility is of the Government, which through the decrees has never raised the amounts of these concessions. In addition, nobody says what the costs are, which have been tenfold in terms of bathing concessions: rescue at sea, buoys, cleaning of the beaches and storage are all the costs for bathing dealers. But nobody talks about this and speculates by saying that the amounts are very low, because obviously no one has ever thought of increasing them. That is also why we are against it. This bill refers in its title to competition, but the truth is that, with these contents, the only competition it will produce will be unfair but unfortunately unfair competition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calandrini, I do not know if you were referring to the amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy to Article 2 or to Article 3. Mr Calandrini (FdI). In the Commission, the sub-amendments to Article 2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He did not specify that these were the amendments tabled to the Commission. I would also like to point out that the quota periods allocated to the Groups are also going to be scaled up by the interventions relating to the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u85	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am always speaking on the subject of the famous amendments tabled in Article 2. It is quite unusual for amendments to be tabled which have not actually been tabled in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is These are explanations of vote on Article 2, Senator Romeo. You can talk about what you want, of course, it's not unusual. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Then I also make an explanation of vote on Article 2. What I cannot understand, however, in the light of what my colleague has just said, namely the opposition to Bolkestein, the fact that their amendments have not been taken into account, the fact that they are against all the work that has been done and against the expropriation, is because no deleterious amendment has been tabled for this House, if you really were so against it. [[Applause]] Excuse me, colleagues, but I need to understand this, otherwise the suspicion comes that, politically, you go out and tell a story and then, in essence, you approve the agreement that the government made. Once and for all, we must be clear before the Italian citizens! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u86	Senator Romeo, so yours is an explanation of vote in favour of Article 2? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u89	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, colleagues have given us the opportunity to speak. It was not our intention, then the dialectics inside the center-right urged us. Of course we will vote against Article 2 and we have not tabled the amendment in this House precisely because we have realised that wasting Members' time is not the best thing that can be done. Both inside and outside, in every way, we will vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u90	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u93	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would simply like to remind my fellow Senator Romeo that our amendments have all been submitted to the Commission on a timely basis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u94	Senator Ciriani, we're in the process of illustration. You will be able to speak in an explanation of vote on this amendment once the opinion of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government has been given. I therefore call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u95	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u96	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u97	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u100	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we will abstain on Amendment 3,300, first signed by Senator Angrisani. We have presented similar ones to the Commission, precisely to exclude certain types of activity from the rigors of the law that the Government and the majority will approve shortly. However, it is worth remembering that our amendments to this article and also to the previous ones have all been punctually deposited in the Commission and all of them have been promptly rejected by those who may now have some crisis of conscience and want to blame us for mistakes that do not belong to us. We have a clear and correct position. Amendments from a regulatory point of view have been foreclosed, which is why they are not filed. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u101	Colleagues, I ask you to behave correctly and to allow the Parent Company of Brothers of Italy to express itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u102	CIRIANI (FdI). The truth hurts. Finally, I remember - the truth hurts - that the easiest way to repeal an article is to vote against it. [[Applause]] It is the simplest thing in the world. No amendments are needed. Everything else is part of the problems of the parties, the positioning, the difficulties within the majority. You have chosen your path, we respect it, but do not come and blame us for the responsibilities that are yours and not ours. I repeat that the easiest way to say no to the solution proposed by the majority is to vote against the article. Everything else doesn't need to be done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u105	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would ask you to speak because, from what they have explained to me at the regulatory level, the amendments that are rejected in the Commission can be tabled again in this House: there are some, for example, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators who have been rejected in the Commission and who have been retabled in this House. Not only that, but our Rules of Procedure also provide that new amendments may be tabled provided that they intervene in the parts modified by the Commission. Now I have to say that, foreclosed or not foreclosed, an amendment, if I thought as you say, I would have tabled it on a modified part, on the company value or on everything else. [[Applause]] Do not come and teach us what the Rules of Procedure provide. Let's just say I'm hearing the crunch of the nails sliding down the mirror. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u106	This controversy is very interesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u109	MARTELLI (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, as the surviving amendments have drowned in hundreds of pages, I would ask you, if possible, to tell us from time to time the number of the amendment and the page on which it is based, unless there is a simplified version which we do not currently have. What is the first-signed amendment by Senator Angrisani? There is a dossier of amendments often two centimetres.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u110	Senator Martelli, you don't have to read the file. I will give you the information you are asking for, but there is only one amendment to Article 3, so it was not difficult to identify it. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,300, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u113	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, I have to correct my vote on the amendment, which is not in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u114	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u115	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u116	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u117	Senator Nugnes' amendments would lapse if no one made them their own. CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr. President, I'll make them my own. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good thing I reminded him, then. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,300, tabled by Senator Nugnes and done by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4301, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4302, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.303, tabled by Senator Nugnes and made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,304, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.305, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4306 tabled by Senator Nugnes and made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,307, tabled by Senator Nugnes and made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.308, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.309, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.310, tabled by Senator Nugnes and made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.311, tabled by Senator Nugnes and made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.312, tabled by Senator Nugnes and made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 4.313 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.314, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.315, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.316, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.317, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.318, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.319, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20 tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u120	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I want to make an explanation of vote on Article 4 so that it is clear what we are voting on, because otherwise we have discussed and mediated whole weeks in the Commission. As far as the Forza Italia Group is concerned, this article is half-satisfied. I do not repeat the story here, because I have already said so in my general speech. The question that has been raised in recent days by the Tar di Lecce, for example, is still pending before the European justice bodies, saying that the Bolkestein directive could not be applied to these concessions. The Tar di Lecce has done what the internal judiciary does in Italy when it refers a question to the Constitutional Court. In this case the Tar di Lecce has invested European justice. You will see when and if the answer comes, which can be important in one sense or another. We have also said here today - and I repeat this - that, since this is a delegated law and this article delegates important things to the Government, we will check on time how this delegation will be exercised. There will be a passage for opinions in Parliament and if the implementation of these rules were not satisfactory and the European judicial authorities had to rule differently from what they did in the past and should open the way to the non-application of Bolkestein, which we would like, to those who are goods and not services, we would have every opportunity to rewrite the rules. In Article 3, we have been given a delay of time. Where there will be disputes and unclear situations, the deadline is no longer 31 December 2023, decided by the Council of State with a decision that also contains numerous inaccuracies and authentic lies about revenues and payments, but in the meantime it has been said that we can go to 31 December 2024 and, as previously mentioned by Senator Mallegni in his speech, we have obtained a delay of time. I also believe that I understand, Mr Romeo, why no amendments have been tabled by certain groups to this article, because there are many positive things in it. The principle of compensation is established: if European justice, the course of things should confirm the races, the problem is who compensates the loser and here there is a whole series of things written about any losers. And, since in the Commission - there is here Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, who has followed with great patience and mediated the long discussion on the residual and non-residual value - the chapter on compensation has been left in a more general way, precisely in order to allow the definition in delegated decrees. Parliament will then give its opinions and then the next legislation, because it is not that democracy ends, they will be able to review things if they do not go well. In conclusion, President La Russa, in making this explanation of vote in favour of Article 4, I want to say one thing, because then the rules must also be read. These days it is said that there is a risk that the multinationals will take advantage of our coasts and figure out if our Group, called Forza Italia - to be precise Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC - can be in favour of this eventuality, the colonization of our coasts. However, when it comes to this risk, we must also read the text we are about to vote on: Article 4 (l) of the text proposed by the Commission states: "definition, in order to facilitate the access of micro and small enterprises to activities related to state property concessions for tourist-recreational purposes (...) of the maximum number of concessions" (i.e. introduces a limit to the number of concessions). Therefore, the limit of the number we wanted is important, because if then a multinational company comes to Italy and takes a concession or takes three, it may already have three concessions in a place where the concessions are 200 or 300; there will be the sora Lella who manages the cabin and Mr. Mario who manages the beds in Laigueglia. It may also be that there is a company of different tenor: I saw, for example, days ago - I do not see it here with us today, but I quote it positively - Senator Garnero Santanchè, who defended her activity by saying that she is of quality and is addressed to a certain type of audience. If you respect the laws, one can go to the luxury restaurant or the trattoria; we are for the freedom of the enterprise. There must also be the free beach for those who do not want to pay anything - and this law confirms it - and then the citizen will choose, as he chooses a restaurant: there are those who want to go also from the multinational - alas - who sells meatballs, to the trattoria that costs little or to the luxury restaurant. This also applies to beaches, if everyone respects the law. This article introduces the principle of compensation, provided that then Europe is not convinced to change its way, or if laws are to be revised; it also introduces a principle of limitation of licences. Therefore, telling that the day after tomorrow the soda of Atlanta you buy all the Italian beaches is not true because it is not possible, according to this norm. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u121	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment 4.0.300, which is intended to be presented and on which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u122	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u123	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u124	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,300, tabled by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u125	I am against Amendment 5,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u126	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u127	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,300, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Before moving on to Article 6, I received a request from the government representative to check his vote, noting that he wanted to vote in favour of amendment 5,300. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u130	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I had a similar problem: I voted against Article 5, rather than in favour, wandering into pressing the button.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u131	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of amendment 7.0.200, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 7, which is intended to be explained. Senator Ciriani asked to make his own amendment and the Presidency authorised it to do so. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u132	Mr President, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u133	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u134	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u137	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, by changing the type of vote of the Group, I am voting in favour of amendment 7.0.200, tabled by Senator Garnero Santanchè, not so much for the amendment itself, but because, at last, someone tries to pass a principle for us sacrosanct, which is that of reciprocity. It is possible that pieces of foreign entrepreneurship or even foreign states can do what they want in Italy, while we always have something that blocks us at the borders. So let us welcome this principle. Let us welcome the amendment, on which we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u138	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.200, tabled by Senator Garnero Santanchè and done by Senator Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u139	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 8,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u140	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u141	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u142	Mr President, I welcome Amendment 9,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u143	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u144	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,200, tabled by Senators Iannone and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Senator Ciriani has asked for amendment 10,251 to be adopted and the Presidency has authorised it to do so. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u145	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Article 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u146	Mr President, the Government agrees with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u147	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,250, tabled by Senators Paragone and Martelli, identical to amendment 10,251, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.252, tabled by Senators Iannone and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u148	Mr President, I am against Amendment 11,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u149	Mr President, the Government agrees with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u150	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,200, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u153	BARBARO (FdI). Mr President, I would like to correct the vote just now. I would like to move from voting in favour to voting against.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u154	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment 13.0.200, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 13, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u155	Mr President, I am against Amendment 13.0,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u156	Mr President, the Government agrees with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.0.200, tabled by Senator Garnero Santanchè and made by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u158	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 16,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u159	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u160	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,200, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 16.0.300, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 16, which is intended to be explained and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u161	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u162	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u163	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.300, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 18.0.200, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 18, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u164	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u165	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u166	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.0.200, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We note that the Minister for Disabilities, Stefani, intends to correct her vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u167	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u168	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u169	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u172	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House the content of this amendment and to make the Government well appreciate the opinion it has expressed, because I do not believe that this proposal can be expressed against it. Amendment 20,200 aims to protect the fundamental values of the Italian transfusion system and explicitly provides that blood collection should be carried out exclusively by unpaid and unpaid donors. I think this is a battle of civilization. The Italian transfusion system is an excellence and must be protected: blood, plasma and plasma derivatives are themes not known to the public, but fundamental for the maintenance of the National Health System and for the health of many patients. It is therefore the task of politics and this House to safeguard and defend this model which is based on two principles: gratuitousness and voluntaryness. I would like to highlight a figure that emerged from the annual research of the Italian Blood Volunteers Association (AVIS). The pandemic and the emergency situation in our country have generated a boost to donation; once again, therefore, the Italian system confirms itself as a virtuous model in the consolidation and expansion of the audience of donors. We must therefore work on structural interventions that increase the volume of blood donors, not with premiums, but with active policies, such as increasing the number of health workers, extending the opening hours of the centres, the inclusion of blood collection centres in community homes and the reorganization and renewal of plasma storage and separation machinery. The collection of blood, therefore, excludes and must exclude at the origin any kind of economic and financial assessment. Commercializing one's own blood is tantamount to commercializing organs or any other part of the body. The considerations are in the deepest ethics of mankind; there is a bulwark made up precisely of gratuitousness and voluntariness - this amendment asks this to the Assembly - which, once passed, can open the way to a thousand other drifts and considerations. The Italian model - I repeat and finish - shows that self-sufficiency can be achieved through a totally free collection system. Government and Parliament must work together to support plasma collection with policies necessary to achieve self-sufficiency in research, not by marketing plasma. Defending the Italian transfusion system is the only way to protect the National Health System, lowering as much as possible the public cost of plasma for purchasing from abroad. Today we begin with a small step, drawing on the deepest morale, and tomorrow we can decide to buy or sell any part of our body. With this amendment, Brothers of Italy stands as defender of this bulwark of civilization. Blood is not an economic tool and you do not want to open up to easily predictable drifts. I still ask the House and the Government to review their position on this amendment, to give a favourable opinion and to vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u173	Thank you, Senator La Pietra. However, I cannot ask for the opinion if it is not the interested parties who are asking for the floor. So the opinion, unless otherwise stated, that I do not notice, remains the one already expressed by the rapporteurs and the Government, that is to say contrary. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,200, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 20.0.200, which aims to include an additional article after Article 20, which is intended to be explained and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u174	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u175	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u176	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.0.200, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 21, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u177	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u178	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u179	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21,200, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 23, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u180	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u181	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u182	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.200, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 24, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u183	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u184	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u185	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24,200, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 25.0.200, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 25, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u186	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u187	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u188	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.0.200, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 28, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u189	Mr President, I am opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u190	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u191	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28,200, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u194	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the issue of professionals, because this amendment seeks to equalise the position of freelancers with those of other economic operators. Therefore, I believe that it would respond to an act first of all certainly of fairness and also to the spirit of what should be - as you well know, for us it is not - a true reform for competition. At least being able to equate the liberal professions, for the purpose of accessing the calls for funds and funding, with other economic operators, by equalizing the registration of the Chamber of Commerce with the registration of professional bodies, would be a necessity for this category and an act of justice and equity by Parliament, against those professionals who - as we know - are all too often ignored and considered to be B series compared to other professions and VAT consignments. I would really like the Government to be able to give a favourable opinion on this amendment and that parliamentary colleagues who, like me, when confronted with professionals show their attention, vote in favour of this issue, in order to equate freelance professionals with other VAT matches.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u195	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.201, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 29. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 30. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 31.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u198	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, it is enough to look at Article 1, which contains the spirit of the law, in which we talk about competition, in order to understand that the freedom of discount for traders, the freedom to choose when to make firm and promotions is a principle that should not be affirmed, as is the case today, with ambiguous subterfuges and behavior; a principle that should instead be guaranteed by the law unequivocally. If you really think of doing a reform for competition, you allow entrepreneurs in a liberal way to decide for themselves how and when to do promotional activities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u199	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 31,0.200, which seeks to add an additional article after Article 31, which is intended to be explained and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u200	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u201	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u202	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 31,0.200, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 32. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 33 on which an amendment has been tabled. I'm asking if anyone wants to sign it. IANNONE (FdI). I, Mr President, subscribe to that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment is intended to be explained. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u203	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u204	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u205	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.300, tabled by Senator Garnero Santanchè and made by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 33. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 34. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 35. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment 35.0.200, which aims to include an additional article after Article 35, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u206	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u207	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u208	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 35.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u211	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of crisis such as the current one, in which we all fear that inflation, the international crisis, the pandemic crisis can also increase crises in banking relations and the further presence of NPLs, deteriorated credits; at a time when we should all make sure that we protect our entrepreneurs, artisans and traders as much as possible, I believe that approving this amendment would be an act of civilisation first of all towards those entrepreneurs who are in difficulty. As is often the case - and the businessman knows this - it is possible that the current accounts may be cross-border. We call for the only borrowing rate to be that applied to the current account and therefore there are no extra rates, no trespass rates. At an ordinary time it can also be understood that it is a precautionary measure, but at a time like this we must tell the craftsmen and traders that Parliament is united and favourable in asking that the banks apply only one rate on the border or outside the border of the account. I therefore appeal to the forces that are said to be liberal and close to business to vote for an amendment of civilization. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u212	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 35.0.200, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Garnero Santanchè. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u215	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, I only speak to say that I mistakenly voted against, but my vote was to be a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u216	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 36. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u217	We greet the students of the classical high school "Gabriele d'Annunzio" in Pescara. [[Applause]] I do it with particular pleasure, not only for the origin, Pescara, but for the name, Gabriele D'Annunzio, which was given to the institute.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u218	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u221	[[Brusio.]] CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, I expect Members who are not interested to be removed from the Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crucioli, if you want to wait, who am I to tell you not to. CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). I meant that the ten minutes at my disposal will start when there is silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry. As long as you want. At this point it can also start, because listening will not be greater later. Starts and the ten minutes start now. CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, what we have discussed today is one of the worst measures in this parliamentary term. It is a mine in the future of our children. However, I have heard a narration in this House that is literally unworthy, particularly that of my colleague, Mr Monti. He basically said that we are making a useful measure to the Italians and also through payment, as if Europe were paying us to do something useful. Instead, this measure reminds me - also for the way in which it was approved - the beads of the conquistadores towards the Indians, because they wave before us the PNRR and tell us that, if we do the reforms, they will give us the satisfaction. The manner in which this measure has been approved also calls for revenge: in particular, it cries out for revenge the threatening letter that the President of the Council presented to the presidency of the Senate. In the letter - as you know - it has been threatened that if the Senate had not approved the measure by the end of May, we would have assumed responsibility for the failure, precisely, of the PNRR pearl that Europe waves under our noses. What does this provision contain? It contains the final assault on everything in the public, on services and on public goods. This is because the government is fully aware of the moment of extreme weakness that politics and Parliament have and also of extreme economic weakness. He knows we're in front of the abyss and this is the moment of the attack, the assault and the final sale of our assets. What, then, is in this provision? There is everything that should not have been: there is the attack on local public services through a delegation to the Government for the reordering of the whole matter; there is the overcoming of the exclusive regime, in letter d); or, again, the need for the reasons anticipated and qualified in case of self-production and failure to resort to the market by the municipalities. Basically, if the municipalities want to continue to do the public services in their own hands, then directly or through the participants with the companies in house, they will have to give an early and qualified motivation, then subject to control. It is a real obstacle course: this is what the letter g says. Point (i) increases the dose by establishing the need for periodic verification. If even today the municipalities were to say that they maintain public management of the public service and do not resort to the market, tomorrow they will have to re-examine if this still applies, because the concept is very clear: the concept is to privatise, to race and to let private individuals enter where public companies were to manage public services. Point (m) explicitly extends these principles to local public transport; point (n) provides for the explicit revision of the rules on waste and water services in order to harmonise them with these principles of competition. No local public service sector is excluded. Then, there is the grain, the letter v), that is, the transitional discipline: if the municipalities do not uniform, then it will trigger the replacement power, that is, the government will replace directly the organs of the public bodies in order to do what they in theory may not yet do, i.e. competition, resort to the market and nothing more public. Everything that is public today will be put into competition tomorrow and everything that we pay little tomorrow will pay much more. It is really bizarre the thesis that I have heard here from former President Monti, who obviously speaks for the voice of European markets and powers, that we do something of interest to our citizens and even paid: exactly the opposite, the world upside down. This is also the case in the privatisation of health care. Article 16 provides that accreditations of health facilities must be faster, faster, with fewer checks. It replaces the objective parameter of the cost of performance with the discretionary parameter of quality, opening to the new season of the rising costs for health services. What is happening with regard to maritime state property concessions, as referred to in Article 4? Same thing. We act on two principles. The first is that no clear address is given in the delegation, providing that there must be a number of public beaches. There is no specific criterion of delegation. We are simply talking about an adequate balance and let the government see what this appropriate balance is. On the contrary, a specific quantity should have been demanded, at least half of public beaches: no. Still, it is expected that there will be gates to reach the public beaches, without mentioning the passage through concessions. Because there are certain places, as in Liguria, where if the concessions do not let you in, the gates do not have them and then you can not access the sea. And then we only talk about access to the sea, but not for a stop on the beach. But how can you take a bath if you can't rest on the beach your backpack and your own towel? So, even in this case, it is a blank proxy, because it privatises even more. Then, local dealers are also hit, because the look is at foreign multinationals. Suffice it to say that point (l), which says it is aimed at maximum participation, does not limit the number of concessions that can be obtained. Suffice it to say: do we want to protect the little ones? Then whoever takes the bathing concession takes one and no more. That's all I had to say. Instead, there is no limit. As well as, in point (g), it is envisaged to introduce a specific discipline to allow sub-concessions, reliance on secondary activities and sub-entry. As if to say that, among friends, you can take in concession a huge number of beaches and concessions and then subconcede them. This is the typical annuity of position, with the creation of mere intermediaries: no longer the direct management of the beach by the small local dealers, but the big chains that make incetta of concessions and then make them manage to others. The same applies to port concessions. Article 5 does not specify a limit. On the contrary, there is a specific derogation from the prohibition of cumulation of port concessions. Even for smaller ports, you can have more than one concession if you have different activities. On the other hand, in ports of national and international economic importance, there is no limit. That's what paragraph 9 says. It is also provided, just as for the beaches, the possibility of subconcession, that is to entrust to other harbour enterprises the exercise of activities included in the operating cycle. Again, the big comes, the multinational arrives, takes the concession and sub-grants it without having to put something of its own. Basically, he brokers for a position annuity. In the face of all this, it is shameful that center-right and centre-left parties, indistinguishably, even if at local level, in the municipalities, say they are opposed and speak of public services, they all vote compactly in favour of this shameful measure, which breaks down the principles themselves, the principle of the public that we have known so far. I'm telling you, by removing this muzzle, which has really gotten sick of it: this provision sucks and we will vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u224	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, with the bill governing the market and competition we are called upon to approve today, an important commitment in terms of the reforms we have undertaken with the PNRR. By 2026 we committed ourselves to achieving 527 objectives in terms of intervention, investment and reforms. Achieving these commitments is an essential condition for achieving the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In particular, by June we have committed ourselves to approving the procurement code, tax reform and competition law. The Government's concern to ensure that this law is passed is justified and understandable, as there are 24 billion of the six-monthly instalment at stake. However, it must also be said that the method chosen for parliamentary work to convert the competition law has made it very difficult to approve it. We have often criticized alternating bicameralism, but the inauguration of alternating bicameralism for articles is truly an experience not to be repeated. Despite this, the Senate has demonstrated great competence and merit in addressing issues and in the ability to meet the deadlines. We have addressed issues that have long been waiting for answers, such as the theme of the renewal of concessions of the state property and port areas, those of natural gas and then themes of strategic value, such as those of energy. We talked about the renewal of concessions for large hydroelectric derivations, addressing and resolving also conflicting issues such as that of tourist-receptive state property concessions. The Commission, President Girotto, the rapporteurs, Senators Collina and Ripamonti and Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin must be acknowledged for a great deal of patience and seam for which they must be thanked. At the same time, we must remind the other House that by June the measure must be approved. Important issues such as TPL, taxis, NCCs, communications and infrastructure remain to be addressed. The Undersecretary is well aware of the importance of the issues to be addressed. The draft competition law is not only important because it is an objective of the PNRR, but it is important because the protection and promotion of competition are fundamental values for economic efficiency, social justice, for the quality of public services; issues which, in turn, can be placed in the wider area of protection of employment, investment, innovation in terms of the environment, safety and health of citizens. This is why we have devoted a lot of time to deepening the best solutions for Italy. This has not been easy because, from a regulatory point of view, national legislation, which is also the core of the economic constitution, is interwoven, integrated and interfaced and sometimes clashes with European legislation, as happened, for example, on tourism-demand concessions. We had a national law imposing and demanding an automatic medium-term extension of concessions, incompatible with Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but also with Article 12 of the Services Directive. It was therefore essential, from a legal point of view, to restore respect for European law. At the same time, the Services Directive, a liberalisation and non-harmonisation regulation, called for the removal of those obstacles which at national level made it impossible to create the conditions for competition. Despite the tendency to respond to these principles that we recognized, we had to take into account the national situation, to take into account that the tourist-receptive sector is one of the main economic sectors of our country and that therefore it was necessary to balance in a certain sense the European principles, as well as we did, with the legitimate expectations of the current dealers. For this reason, like Italy Viva, we have worked in the method, always trying to tend towards the agreement and on the substance, trying to make one of the crucial suggestions, which then led to the agreement on this amendment. I am referring to the calculation of compensation with uniform criteria on national territory which were defined by the implementing decrees. Of course we are as proud of this as Italy Viva. The challenge remains for the local administrations that will have to make the mapping and contest the concessions and to the bathing entrepreneurs that once again will have to approach this new programming and this new mode of investment in the idea of valorizing the coastal heritage. The subject that I am most concerned about, what I consider to be fundamental among the issues we have addressed, is the renewal of the great concessions of hydropower derivation. Italy, moreover, is going through a moment of energy crisis that impacts heavily on all macroeconomic values, so it was a topic that needed careful reflection. We have been told from several quarters and have been asked to keep in mind that at risk there was the control of strategic assets, as well as the energy autonomy of Italy, because the hydroelectric sector is a national sector, with great public control, which has the entire chain of national components, unlike for example wind and solar; it is a sector that produces 20% of national electricity, a percentage that rises to 40% if we consider that produced from renewable sources only. It is also a type of energy that can be programmed and not intermittent compared to other renewable energies, so it is an area of extraordinary importance for Italy. For this reason, we in Italy Viva made proposals that took account of all this, first of all an amendment approved in this measure, which was then transposed in the so-called decree-law price cuts, concerning the inclusion of hydroelectric concessions in the legislation on golden power, extending the special powers of the State also to cases where, at the outcome of the procedures for entrusting such concessions, the protection of the essential interests of the State was not adequately guaranteed. We have also tried to give priority to public-private partnership as a means of redeployment, because in our opinion it allows for greater technological innovation, greater sustainability and greater investment in respect of the environment. As has been mentioned by many, it was necessary to make the legislation more flexible and therefore to give more time to the Regions to write their regional laws and to implement the races; three years have therefore been foreseen from the approval of the draft competition law in order to finish the procedures of reassignment. 16.34 p.m. (Follow CONZACTS). However, as a self-employed person I am also satisfied with the work done for the concessions of great hydropower derivation present in the territory of Trentino-Alto Adige, which are regulated according to the rules of the autonomy statute. We have obtained some significant, not discounted, weight-absence, first of all that regarding the proposal to write black on white in the autonomy statute that the expiry date of the concessions aligned with the national one on 31 December 2024 (also for us it is expected a broader time limit to complete the procedures), the protection of the golden power and then the inclusion, also in the draft competition law, of the safeguard clause in order to reiterate once again that the discipline for the hydropower of the Regions with special statute is governed by the autonomy statute, which defines the modalities, procedures, criteria of admission, financing, organizational and technical qualities, even the duration. I can therefore say that I am satisfied with the work of great collaboration between Italy Viva and SVP to achieve this great attention for the special autonomy. Mr President, with the adoption of the draft competition law, we reaffirm our willingness to align ourselves with European principles, because we believe that it is necessary to secure the economic foundations of the state and that it is a right stimulus for future investments. Therefore, with full awareness of the strategic importance of this measure, I declare the favorable vote of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u225	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u227	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we sincerely are not surprised that the Government and the majority are on Mars (to which we are now accustomed), but that they do not hear the cries coming from the Earth. We are dealing with a very complex and important measure, which has been reduced to a stew, with articles which have practically not been dealt with by this branch of Parliament and with articles modified with downward agreements. One thing has been done: a politically criminal choice has been made for Brothers of Italy, to decree the death of 30,000 Italian companies. Our beaches have written a page in the history of our nation and are an excellence of the Italian productive world, which has resisted over the years, has resisted the pandemic and has resisted the incomprehensible measures that have been enacted by the government even during the period of the pandemic. [[Applause]] We don't have to prove which side we're on. We say this with an absolute conviction, because it shows what we have done over the years in terms of battles for our beaches. I go backwards: in 2019 we said that a definitive and clear solution had to be found, that would give certainty to these people, because, going forward with extensions, they would be exposed to a serious risk. We were unheard and the facts then showed up in all their crudeness. So, dear gentlemen, how can one think of acting in this way, in the most absolute contempt for the lives and work of these people? However, they have been subjected to a press campaign which I do not hesitate to call shameful, because they have been painted as scroungers of the State. They are people who have worked with honor for many generations, who give employment to many people and who offer a service that is considered an Italian excellence; to see them painted in this way really offends and mortifies. Unfortunately, we are well aware of the root of this, because we have also listened to unworthy words in this House. If the extensions have been made, it is certainly not the fault of the beaches, but of governments that have not decided, of governments supported by some political forces that lose the elections punctually for ten years, but are always in the government. If these companies paid insufficient fees, however, they did not determine them themselves; the fees were paid on the basis of what they were asked for. I would add that this argument is really ridiculous, because if we have headaches, the solution is not to cut off our heads, but to take aspirin. So it is not possible to accept that these people are also offended and vile. We have always brought the proposals, our amendments are always there. On this day, which is very sad for the Italian beaches, there are some things that have definitely ripped a laugh. To feel that the blame for this situation lies with the opposition leader Giorgia Meloni is really ridiculous. [[Applause]] It is also ridiculous to hear this in the light of the fact that Commissioner Bolkestein, the father of the directive, said in Parliament that the Bolkestein directive does not apply to State concessions. So what has been said in this House by the Movimento 5 Stars is a real stupidity, but we know it well and even the beaches know it well. For them there is always a solution: close and there will be citizenship income for you! [[Applause]] Let's say, that the work must be mortified and penalized, because there is this instrument that destroyed the Italian productive fabric. Take a tour of the businesses, let yourself be told how difficult it is, especially in the south, to find people who go to work, because you have given them state methadone! [[Applause]] Then, before you speak of others, shut up, listen, do not be intolerant of the only force in opposition. You have a majority, which is before your eyes: there are those who think they are Robin Hood and those who think they are the Sheriff of Nottingham. Have you listened to the statements of the majority forces? There are those who are convinced that they are doing a great thing for the state treasury and those who say: we are voting in favour, but then we are going to change it. It's embarrassing! [[Applause]] Then you want to talk about the opposition and allow yourself to name Giorgia Meloni, the only coherent tale of Italian politics. There is no decency in this House, in the absolute way! I have heard words that I share, for example, the criticism of the decision of the Council of State, but here we have to be consistent with the vote, ladies and gentlemen. That sentence is an offense to the whole Parliament, not only because it is written with the devil's hand, but because it has allowed itself to go as far as occupying the perimeter of the legislative power, which until proven otherwise belongs to this House, which belongs to the people! [[Applause]] In the days of last week, in those convulsive hours, you were called as schoolchildren by the President-in-Office of the Council, who told you in eight minutes: either you do so, without even trust, otherwise we loose the lines and all at home. This is probably because, in the next few days, it must bring to the European Union, as a guarantee of the PNRR, the head of the Italian seaside resorts. [[Applause]] That is the truth and it is a shameful truth, because we must stand by what is written: there is no such conditionality for the PNRR. We are the State, we represent the State and the laws we make are only written. Whoever makes the laws without writing them and wants them to be respected surreptitiously bears all other names, but it is not called State! [[Applause]] Then I am very sorry that I have also heard from the leader of the League a specious controversy about the amendment. [[Recalls of the President]] , but you know well what you have done in the Commission: instead of tabling an amendment signed by the rapporteur and the government, you have tabled rewordings of your sub-amendments, which have precluded our own. Do you want to continue voting against Italian bathing? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Iannone. IANNONE (FdI). You could do that, because there was the vote that was taken, here in this House: it was enough to vote no in Article 2 and Article 2 would have been deleted. [[Applause]] If you still want to be fierce about these people, you will have the opportunity to do so in the House of Deputies. [[Applause]] Let's see how you vote in the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u228	Senator Iannone, we are at 11 minutes of surgery: I don't want to take your word for it, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u229	IANNONE (FdI). I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the government of the best is Monti- bis, we have also seen this from Mr Monti's arguments this morning, that he said very serious things and that we certainly reject, because we have not delegated anything to the Europe of technocrats, especially when it is in the hands of the Italians. Never something like that. It has been said that central banks have been wrong and candidly said that citizens must pay the price. Brothers of Italy will never stand for this, because ours is not the party that will stay with the beaches tomorrow or that was with the beaches yesterday: Brothers of Italy is the party that is with the beaches yesterday, today and tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u232	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Pichetto Fratin and Ms Bini, who have worked and followed a very complicated and difficult job. There was no need for methodological dramatization, out of line in my opinion. We have made a difficult synthesis, not taken for granted, because of course, as other Members have also pointed out, the debate and the positions between the different groups and also in the majority were and are different positions. However, this measure has, from our point of view, significantly changed on issues that are fundamental to us. Moreover, the Government's proposal was born in a very different situation than what we are living and what we will live. The world, as has already been said by several colleagues, has already changed; we will no longer have the globalization we have experienced in the years before the war and we will have to understand what the new balances are. Therefore, the original approach of that measure started from some premises that are no longer objectively substantial today. From this point of view, we have made some progress, for example on local public services, with a clear distinction between network services, economic services, and others. Still, we have tried, perhaps achieving a result that is not yet satisfactory, but certainly important, to overcome a preconceived attitude towards self-production and to find a balance between self-production and market access. There are some substantial changes: there is no longer a letter (g), which required the prior opinion of the Competition Authority and the market. I would like to remind you that the path of motivation for the interventions of the public companies of the Municipalities was already foreseen in the so-called Law Madia, n. 124 of 2015. Instead, we have sought and introduced a very important element - at least for us - and we expect it not to remain on paper: the Municipalities, before choosing - as Vice Minister Pichetto Fratin recalled, and I thank him for this - between self-production and market, must make a series of assessments that are not only economic, but also related to quality, the appropriateness and the dimension of service. We have not discussed this here, but we have introduced something new, I do not know how effective it is, according to which now part of the article examines it in the House and another part in the Senate, but I have already said what I think about the method. It is clear, for example, that if for local public transport (TPL) I have to do a service for the citizens of a small municipality in the mountains and I look only at the economics, I do not do that service. Instead, it is a fundamental problem to ensure that service. Therefore, the implementing measures and the delegations are neither a walk nor a formal thing: they are in the inspiration we have introduced. Here is the importance of the work done on the former Article 6; those indications must be respected and the right balances must be built. We have then introduced other important issues, for example in relation to ports, and we have experienced a kind of paradox: competition, but in the most important ports there is the possibility of having more concessions. Competition is always a complex concept, it always depends on how you look at it and from what point of view: from the point of view of the interest in widening and perhaps building small monopolies, or instead as a tool to counter monopolies, as it should be. We have introduced an important thing: it is the harbour authority that must evaluate the possibility to grant the second concession, without prejudice to the values and the rights of the harbour job. This is also not taken for granted. On the great hydro-electric derivations - as we did in the price measure - the golden power is a very important point, also in view of the particular situation we are facing. As far as the seaside resorts are concerned, the positions are different and I would like to see a reflection that perhaps would be useful beyond the demagogy and campaign of which we have also heard a few words here. Was it a wise choice not to decide for twelve years for the beaches, for the state, for the quality of the services offered? Colleagues, I believe that with sincerity and intellectual honesty - increasingly finite resources - we should take note of the fact that it was not a wise choice. There has been a balance that needs to be managed, and I want to be clear on two points here. There are compensations: delegation was given to the Government, which must exercise it. The Vice Minister did very well to recall Article 52 of the Navigation Code and the fact that abuses are such today, they were yesterday and they will be so tomorrow, so that abuses will have no compensation, no other extensions or such. Okay, but now we have to build something smart. What I am more attentive and interested is that the organisational mesh of services and the protection of businesses are insured and I understand better. If you don't regulate how many concessions you can have, if you don't regulate the size and light of the concessions, then there are multinational companies that change the landscape of Italy. We do not want to be Miami, nor the reality of another territory. We want to preserve the quality of our business system and our service fabric. This is the most important thing, which must be crossed with the Regions and with the Municipalities in order to finally build a balance. I'll give you an example, and I'd like you to think about it, because there is something. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Errani. Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). We must, for example, stop making protective barriers, which are prehistoric and anti-tourism. We must make permanent reparations; we use these resources for reparations, we make a pact with the beaches and with the citizens to build a qualification. In short, a great deal of attention and balance is needed. I'm closing with one last concept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm asking you to be very quick, because it's really beyond that, Senator. Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). The relationship between the economy and the market is not resolved here. There is still too much ambiguity and uncertainty. We should do this blessed discussion, to avoid going back to the splendour that, with crocodile tears, we cried with the Covid, according to which the audience is getting worse and the private is getting better and better. That's not the case. We don't fall for that mistake. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u233	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u235	BITI (PD). Mr President, before we deal with some substantive issues on this important measure that we are about to vote on today, let me once again thank, on behalf of myself and the whole Democratic Party, the rapporteurs for the very great work they have done and the Government. It has certainly been complex and tiring months, as someone said, so I really want to express my thanks for this result that we bring home. When I don't know something well or if I want to clarify some topic, first of all with myself and also with others, I allow myself to resort to the wonderful Encyclopedia Treccani. Again, I have referred to this well of science, which often allows us to clarify a few issues. So I went to look for the clear meaning of competition: it is a market situation with wide freedom of access to business, possibility of free choice for buyers (in particular consumers) and, in general, the possibility for everyone to seize the best opportunities available on the market. I believe that we must start here to be as intellectually honest as possible and make it clear that the objective of the Commission which has worked on it and of the Government was to allow those who do business, those who work in these businesses and, above all, consumers to have the best opportunity available on the market. This is what I hope and believe - having attended some meetings - has moved and led the work until today in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to be fully aware that we are in a situation which requires us to take account of two facts: on the one hand, the need to respect the commitments which, as Italy, the Government, supported by Parliament, has taken in Europe; on the other hand, the need to bring about changes and improvements, in my opinion, within the system of concessions in Italy. Respecting the commitment with Europe is very important, because, among the reforms that have been required for us to have the resources promised with the Next generation EU and therefore with the funds that then come to our National Recovery and Resilience Plan, there were changes including the reform of concessions. I would add, however, to what has already been treated very well by my colleague Misiani, another point that I think is fundamental: we do not believe that these reforms are to be done and to be brought to our system only to receive the resources that are in turn useful to the system to improve itself. We do this because we believe and believe that a change is now at least necessary. [[Applause]] We believe it is no longer possible to rebuff or postpone once again matters that are on the table. Many colleagues have already said so many times in this sitting: we can no longer afford to dribble them, not anymore, it is no longer the time. We must be aware that our internal system, not only to be stronger in Europe, also needs a change. I think we are able to give these reforms to Italy with attention, seriousness and responsibility at the moment. Is it better? Yes, it certainly is all better; let us not forget that we are faced with a law called the annual law and that therefore will give us the opportunity to make adjustments. However, it was essential, after so long and after so many years, in some cases; I do not make precise references, because in many areas we know that for many years changes were expected, but we could still improve. Intellectual honesty, as I said before, requires us to be perfectly aware of the fact that the income system, which unfortunately often engages in these areas, we all pay for it. It is often paid by all citizens, and we must also be aware that the income system does not mean a system that protects businesses. On the other hand, it is clear - as the rapporteur, Senator Collina said - that we must give precise rules and build clear frames within which entrepreneurs can and must be helped to do business that we can protect those who want to give this country a new strength, also from the point of view of the commitment made to workers to create new jobs. Here always comes the question that I'm used to asking all of you, colleagues and colleagues. Do we think we have the ability to find the necessary balance and balance - fundamental at this time, as Senator Misiani also said - of promoting healthy competition, which protects those who do business, with the interests of those who work in those businesses and also of those who consume, of all of us, who are often consumers? This is the question that owes us, owes us and has guided us in recent months and that must continue to be our lighthouse, our guide. The answer I think should be yes. We cannot escape this responsibility that is given to us because that is exactly what the citizens of this country ask us: to standardize ourselves with Europe, bringing the Italian system to be stronger. All the Groups, who in one way and who in another, know that a stronger Italy at European level is good for everyone: for the Democratic Party, it is mainly good for Europe; others, who only see Italy in Italy, certainly have a different vision, but for them the Italian system is also fundamental. Therefore, our entrepreneurs now have the need to have certain rules, by which we must help them, having confidence in them and in the capacities of Italy. Certainly, Mr President, this change will not be painless. The more or less epochal changes - and in some areas we can also talk about epochal changes - are never painless. I believe, however, that our task, of those who make politics and is at the service of this country at this moment, making politics both to accompany the country, businesses and consumers in the present period with great transparency and great sense of responsibility, without any resistance, without fearing that things happen that are probably only invented and without the exploitations that instead, even in recent weeks, unfortunately have accompanied us and not little. Anyone interested in this provision must be accompanied by us. This is our task, our first task, which must guide us in this change, to strengthen the system and protect, once again, those who do business in this country, creating jobs, and those who consume. Surely the Democratic Party has this as a goal to pursue. Of course, we trust in the work that will be completed by our colleagues in the House, whom we thank, also because so many meetings have been held with them, so it has already been marked what will be done. Then we trust the government, which has been called back several times. There are aspects to be corrected and clarified with the decrees delegated and the Government must know that we will be careful and watch over this. It will need a clear, straightforward, clean, but positive comparison, as it has been carried out so far. Sure that this will happen and that the Democratic Party will watch in this respect, our vote can only be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u238	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after months of work, discussion, deepening, commitment and intensive debate between parliamentary groups, in the relevant committees, in constant and constructive intercourse with the Government, the annual draft law (in short, annual) for the market and competition, on many of the points contained, arrives in this Chamber at the request of President Draghi, to whom we could not ask for more time in the Senate. It is a very large, important bill that deserves to be analysed as a whole in order to fully understand its content and purpose, in the light of the fact, not trivial, that this time it will have to coordinate with the objectives that the Government has given itself within the PNRR and in consideration of a data not small: the last approved draft law on competition goes back to 2017. We have heard many times the word responsibility: we believe that this is the key word with which to define the result of the long time spent to find a point of balance, the best possible mediation, satisfying first and foremost for the country, on the many topics contained and defined within the draft competition law. It was undoubtedly a very demanding work on a measure that contains different and complex subjects, which in some cases have been dragging open issues for years, also considering the crossroads, as I said before, with the Milestone and target of the PNRR. So first and foremost, I would like to express the thanks of Forza Italia to the rapporteurs, Senators Ripamonti and Collina, to the members of the competent Commission, to the Group leaders and to the Government, who have never shunned listening and constructive confrontation in order to find that virtuous synthesis that has led to clear commitments, with the aim of protecting Italian companies all, representing our productive strength, our work forge at every level and in every sector. Thanks to the contribution of all, important issues have been dealt with, from gas distribution to bathing areas, from port concessions to waste management, from medicines and patents to local public services, from hydroelectric concessions to health, electric vehicles and columns. Other important issues remain to be examined and, as Mrs Biti said, colleagues in the House will consider them. In particular, however, let me express my deep satisfaction at the competent and sensitive commitment of the representatives of the Forza Italia Group who with determination and firmness have managed to sum up in the exclusive interest of citizens representing the different categories, to give the country better rules, really fair, overcoming every single interest. The aim of legislative work is in fact one and only one: to promote and realize the interests of the country. As Vice Minister Gilberto Pichetto Fratin has said, and I take this opportunity to express special thanks for the way in which he has followed the whole process of the measure, with objectivity, patience and competence, Parliament's work is not yet finished, because we are still waiting for a fundamental step, when we are called to evaluate the implementing decrees, which represent, as we say today, the real grounding of the measure. The protection and promotion of competition can also contribute to greater social justice. The PNRR also states that competition can help lower prices and increase the quality of goods and services for citizens. Especially when it comes to markets such as medicines or public transport, competition is a stimulus to a fairer market and more affordable services. In this case, the effects of increased competition can also foster greater equality between citizens and greater social cohesion. Italy, although the eighth world economy, is in the thirtieth place in the world by level of competition. Only a few sectors have benefited from the drive of the competition provisions, which mean access to new players in the supply of goods and services and lower charges for users and final consumers. So, rightly, competition is not only a market instrument, it also serves to protect non-economic interests of the community and the most vulnerable. It should also be stressed the importance of rules that speed up procedures for the implementation of new generation digital infrastructures, an essential objective of the PNRR. In short, the regulatory instruments put in place should help to strengthen competition in markets and sectors that are currently burdened with many obstacles and restrictions. Finally, it should be remembered that the draft law has been declared linked to the budgetary decision, in addition to the maneuver. I open a small parenthesis on two themes in particular, which have seen us particularly attentive: bathing and hydropower. With regard to the subject of bathing, a work for which I particularly thank my colleagues Gasparri and Mallegni, one thing is certain: Forza Italia never got up from the negotiating table ( [[Applause]] ) and we have always preferred to find a solution for each problem, rather than problems for each solution, being able to establish fair compensation criteria - as colleagues have already mentioned before - which will be defined by technical tables to be built ad hoc and limitation of licences to protect. Also on the subject of hydropower, an energy source that we consider to be primary and synonymous with security, we have certainly not forgotten our liberal spirit, putting in place every action not to give our jewelry to foreign funds. The world has changed, the geopolitical situation is difficult and complex, we have to govern the fourth phase of a mutant globalization, which is making the scenarios change at an impressive speed and we must be ready, we must already be, we cannot be wrong. Let us start from this bill, which will not be the best possible, because the one in office is a Government of unity and mediation is necessary, but it is an important reform to show that politics is up to the skill of our companies. Politics in this sense, citing my very good colleague Tiraboschi, our Holding Company in 10a The Commission must try to unite pragmatism and vision, given that the changes will be increasingly destructive and less predictable, so we must make an effort to try to anticipate them and this will only be possible if we can combine vision with pragmatism. It is good that Italy, after making this effort, is more authoritative in Europe through the Draghi Government, which represents our country authoritatively not only at European level but also worldwide, and try to define a European industrial policy in order to be able to count much more, to be able to count on what we deserve. Therefore Forza Italia, with the will, pragmatism, competence and enthusiasm to be able to make its contribution to the new construction and the new vision of the country, expresses the favorable vote on the annual bill for the market and competition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u239	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u241	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, by announcing the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group on the measure under consideration, we would like to highlight two important aspects, because the draft competition law does not only concern what the newspapers have highlighted in the last period, namely the theme of bathing, but many others, such as transport, health, hydropower, in short, many important and strategic sectors for our territories, as well as the story of bathing, made known by the media. We are talking about a point that we consider to be fundamental and on which the League had already demonstrated itself in this House with Law No 135 of 2018, which finally gave the opportunity to move towards the renewal of the expired concessions of the major hydroelectric derivations, giving a very important signal to the territories. In the measure under discussion there is confirmation that these renewal procedures will be carried out, with great support to the territories, especially the mountainous ones; moreover, it has also been thought of the hydroelectric, which, especially in the light of the fact that there is so much talk of renewable sources, is perhaps the cleanest energy source that there is and does not need to have large invades. Moreover, it is an energy that can be programmed over time and is not like wind, which depends on the presence of wind, or like photovoltaics, which depends on the presence of the sun; it is constant and can be programmed and this is fundamental. We are not just talking about the issues that generate controversy; we must also emphasize important results that go to the territory: more appropriate canons, environmental compensation and all things that benefit our territories, which is what the League has always said and for which it has always fought. [[Applause]] This is an issue that we wanted to highlight. In order not to go too far, I would like to turn to the other subject, which has been the subject of controversy, namely that of the beaches. Some argue that there is no coherence in the action that the Government and that some political forces have taken forward. We, as League, put consistency on this issue, when we did Law No. 145 of 2018, with the then Minister Gian Marco Centinario. I was a signatory to an amendment, along with my colleague, Mr Ripamonti, which gave ample time to arrive at public evidence; we had set a deadline for 2033, with a whole series of paths to be made, such as mapping and checking whether the resource was scarce or not. There were a whole series of principles which had borne the impact of the European Commission's observations; then Minister Centinario had done this. What happens next? Time passes and - let us not forget this and let us not hide it - comes a decision of the Council of State, which deletes this law. That is the question we have to ask ourselves: why do the magistrates come to say that a law is good or not good? They should just apply it, not interpret it. Instead this interpretation came, with a very close deadline, 2023. Therefore it is not the fault of the League if the decision of the Council of State that establishes that by the end of 2023 there must be new assignments and public evidence must be made. In the light of this judgment, the Government had to take note of this and put forward proposals. In hearing the associations, there were three main issues on which it was necessary to fight; the associations and the bathing establishments asked three things, noted that one could not help but apply this decision of the Council of State. Of course, then there is a whole new case law, because now there is the TAR of Lecce that has returned to the European Court; but these are all issues that we will then consider, always ready to intervene, in the light of new judgments and new aspects at the judicial level. We took note of the fact that at the moment it was important to intervene to protect companies, because if we had not done anything, there was only the decision of the Council of State and no one would have protected anyone. I said there were three principles. The first principle is rewards: to protect micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in order to protect those who have a dominant source of income resulting from the fact that they have this concession. Then there was the question of the transitional period, because we remind everyone that the races are made by the municipalities, which must be put in a position to intervene also at the organizational level. However, we have seen with the PNRR that there are difficulties: money often comes, but we do not have the people who do the projects, because Europe's austerity policies have not given the opportunity to replace people, especially employees, officials and experts. [[Applause]] Let's say all: this is austerity, these are the results of austerity! At some point, the municipalities may need a little more time: in fact, this period is guaranteed within the norm. The third question concerns the famous fair compensation: those who take over must of course pay compensation to those who leave the concession, because there are the business and the value of the company. This compensation must also protect the tradition of our territory and everything else. As a proxy law, we had to incorporate these three principles. Go and see in the provision, at least we tell everyone: inside, these three principles are sanctioned by law and, by way of derogation from the code of navigation, there is also the possibility of resorting to project financing, as provided by the code of contracts. That too must be said and emphasized. [[Applause]] As far as the transitional period is concerned, we will then check, because it is also dictated by the disputes that exist, so we will see what happens. Secondly: clear rewards, because at the end of the day, when small and family businesses are protected, 70% of the companies present in our territory are given the opportunity to protect them. This is a sacrosanct principle, written black on white in the law. Then we will go to the bathing establishments with the text of the law, to show what is written, because too many fakes turn on the chats, which tell what you want to tell. You have to look and read, to see what it says! [[Applause]] Then there is the issue of compensation. Certainly the associations are not happy, because they would have preferred the compensation rule to be written in full. However, we reiterate that this is a delegated law, which as such can sanction the principle. How do we do in the law - it was here the difficulty - to contemplate all the existing cases in our country? It would have been impossible, and in two months we'd still be there. I thank Vice Minister Pichetto Fratin, colleagues from Forza Italia, Senators Gasparri and Mallegni, Senator Marti, who is near here, and the rapporteurs Ripamonti and Collina, because there has also been a common commitment and work from other parts. How do we define all these cases, so that we do not stay here for three months and risk lengthening time and putting the draft competition law at risk, since clearly that is not our objective? We decided to establish the principle and then move on to the legislative decree. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course the Ministers concerned by this measure are many and it is not just one: they will do well to open a table with the associations. [[Applause]] , write compensation properly and resolve this situation once and for all. No more European infringements, but certainty, investment possibilities and finally protection for these companies, which have lived in uncertainty for too many years. [[Applause]] This was our commitment and the real goal and we are not afraid to go around telling it. [[Applause]] For these reasons, the vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will be firmly in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u242	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u244	OIL (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators and senators, we are here today to approve the draft competition law, linked to the budget law. It contains a number of measures within it which serve to complete the budget law. Some 30 articles analyse the impact on competition for a whole range of sectors. I would like to mention the most important and most famous ones: grant schemes, local public services and transport, energy, environmental sustainability and health. With this draft law we can say that we have introduced a different way of analysing the texts, because we have carried out cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies, analyzing some twenty articles here, while a dozen will be examined in the Chamber of Deputies. However, this has been carried out through a continuous dialogue with colleagues in the House of Deputies: this almost never happens and we expect it to happen on the contrary, when the measure arrives at the Chamber of Deputies, that is, we will continue to examine the amendments and articles with us. The modus operandi with which we went forward was to work on the text and on the amendments, but then in the end we defined articles and formulations practically ex novo, which took into account everything that has taken place. So we did not have specific amendments, but rewordings. This is a sign of cooperation between the political forces that has allowed us to go deeper into each article, which we have come to define in a joint way. The appreciation that I am expressing about the work done and therefore about the draft law does not mean that we are totally satisfied with the parliamentary changes: we are on one side, but on others we would have liked a little more stringent criteria. However, we can say that in principle there is satisfaction with this bill, but I would like to take stock of what competition must be, a concept that must be understood in a slightly broader sense. We are legislators and we have to intervene by looking at the competition and those that can be its effect and its impact on the whole state and not, as some groups have tried to do, trying to protect only a part of the country, because without having to reach the "it asks Europe" or the "serve for the PNRR," we have to think that the only way to move forward and grow is to have an adequate level of competition between the business parties, which allows to raise the bar more and have better results for both operators and citizens. I will mention only a couple of points between the articles we have examined: the one relating to large hydro-electric derivations and the one relating to beaches. As far as the first is concerned, it must be borne in mind that what has been approved here must be seen together with what we approved three weeks ago with the price tag. Then, thanks to an amendment by our fellow Senator Cioffi, we have spoken by extending the golden power, that is, the mechanism that allows the State to intervene on the assets and fundamental assets of the State, therefore also in the concession regime for transport, communications and energy, including hydropower. Today, on the other hand, we have intervened by adding value to the compensation, including the scale of the investments proposed and also the environmental compensation systems to be reserved for the territories and the improvement and environmental recovery of the river basins. This is important, because it is a question of state goods: over time, some concessions have been used and exploited as if there were no tomorrow, because then the good is returned and therefore we try to maximize its exploitation, but we these goods must preserve them and we must ensure that their useful life, their good life, goes beyond the level of concession, because the river basins, with their ability to accumulate water for the generation of energy, must go on. That is why it is important to have included such a measure. As regards the question of bathing areas, a date was finally included in this measure, on 31 December 2023, but also the possibility of giving a further year of extension, in case there are objective reasons that prevent the completion of tendering procedures or possibly ongoing disputes. It is important to have reached a firm point and that is why we are satisfied with this amendment, but we must be careful and I do not want these situations to be truly objective, but rather sought and desired; in that case, the European Union could also consider them as infringements. There are those who exult, because they see in these further one or two years a possibility of extension, but they must not be seen in this way. The inclusion of compensation within this Article is a slightly different issue. Having brought to the government the decision and the definition of what these compensation criteria will be is a move forward of the problem, but, beyond the political battles of each of us, it will be necessary that the Government pays particular attention, because on the one hand it is certainly necessary to protect those who have made investments and have not yet returned, but on the other it is necessary to protect the successors, because they cannot be faced with unsustainable and unworkable situations for their own operating model. These legislative decrees will have to be issued within six months, then by the end of the year. We, like Movimento 5 Stars, will carefully monitor the form in which they will enter into the criterion of the definition of compensation, because we want to avoid a regulatory drift that does not allow competition to be carried out or, better, to ensure that this competition is not effective, but is only regulatory and figurative. We must be careful about one thing: these are entrepreneurial initiatives that concern the property of the State and cannot have an independent life outside the concessions. This means that, whatever criteria the Government decides to define, it cannot derogate from the accounting principles, which will therefore have to take account of these situations. I want to repeat it so that it is clear: these initiatives do not have and cannot have a life outside the concession itself. This means that, if the successors in participating in a race should be obliged to pay compensation that, as I said before, goes beyond the very concept of their business model, of their operating model, in the end they will not participate in the race. This means that we will have reduced competition, which is exactly what we do not want to see with the bill that we are about to vote on. Reading in the newspapers that there is someone who is already encamping from now on the will to be able to think of defining and modifying these criteria of government emanation with regard to the system of compensation at will and for its own political part, I believe it is a vicious political campaign that is not good, because the government will have to pay close attention to how these criteria will have to be defined. This is a sector that brings to the State about 100 million revenues, which are not in some cases 100 million receipts, and on the other hand it is a turnover that, depending on who makes the estimate, ranges from 2 to 15 billion. It is therefore a sector that must be kept under control, because those who must be protected, in addition to the incumbent operators, are absolutely the citizens, who cannot and must not suffer the effects of competition, lack of competition or, worse still, a system that includes sub-ingresses and sub-contracts. This is where the real future battle will take place, because we will have to protect citizens from what will happen, because they will want to be in bathing establishments and they will not have to suffer these negative effects. This, as I said before, is a final but partial result, because we know that the provision will have to go to the House. Nevertheless, we were able to appreciate that this criterion and method of work satisfied and discontented a little 'all, but it had the great value of being able to put at the centre of the attention and political debate the wishes of all. This shows that, when you think and talk, you can try to reach a situation of mediation that will do the good of Italy. That is why I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u246	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u247	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, it is now clear why the speculator George Soros is so in love with Mario Draghi: because he is complying with Davos' timetable, which is to eliminate the small business, the Italian business in the first place. Since the market had failed to take out the Italian company, Mario Draghi thinks about it with the automatic driver and with the help of the single party of the euro, the "PUDE," the one that goes from the 5 Stars to the League, passing for Messieur Letta, for the friend of the emirs Matteo Renzi, for Forza Italia, Hope and charity varies. The Italian beaches gorge the adults. You wanted the scalp of small businesses? But getting it won't be easy, because these sun-blackened entrepreneurs face the sea in winter: Imagine how afraid they are of you who used to wear "no Bolkenstein" shirts. The same for taxi drivers, who want to sell off to multinational apps that don't even pay all taxes in Italy. None of them will shut up. The banker's government and the majority of traitors are clearing the way to large foreign capitals. In the name of competition? "But do me pleasure" would have laughed in your face at the great Totò. With that face you talk about competition, who still give a mountain of money to the Benettons after the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, those Benettons who make a company for an takeover bid on Atlantia and call it "Schema 43, 43," 43 as the number of deaths of that collapse? Talk about competition and remove the beaches to our small entrepreneurs in the name of the market and then the same state is mute on the mineral water business, without these takers paying in proportion to a dizzying profit. Who are you kidding? But what competition? You are selling Italy to the usual people, in the name of a Europe that, apparently, lends money, only if recovery and resilience foresee the sale of Italians, to whom television and news tell us that in autumn Brussels will demand new taxes, new austerity, new tears. These are the words of President Lagarde who said that the era of free money is over and that we now have to reform, that is, the usual homework. And then, what happens today to the beaches and taxi drivers tomorrow will be for other entrepreneurs, thanks to Draghi and the single party of sweatshirts and referendums no euros. Italexit will vote no. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u248	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, I must suspend our work for a few minutes, pending the drafting of the speech on the outcome of the Conference of the Leaders on the timetable of work, which was approved by a majority and not by unanimity, so that a vote might be envisaged. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.42 p.m. and resumed at 5.52 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u249	The Conference of Leaders adopted the agenda of the Assembly by a majority until 21 June. The Senate will be suspended in the week from 6 to 10 June in relation to the local elections and referendums of 12 June 2022. The Assembly will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 14 June for the discussion of the bill delegated to the Government in the matter of public contracts, approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. The morning of Wednesday 15 June will be devoted to the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the Decree-Law on further measures for the implementation of the PNRR. In the afternoon of Wednesday 15, from 3.30 p.m. to 8 p.m., and in the morning of Thursday 16th the draft law will be discussed with the Government for the reform of the judiciary and the CSM, approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to these draft laws is 12 noon on Monday 13 June. The question time will also be held on Thursday 16, at 3 p.m., for which the ministers of ecological transition, university and health will be present. On Monday 20 June, at 5 p.m., the general discussion of the decree-law on further measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will take place. The sitting does not include closing hours. The debate on the measure will continue on the morning of Tuesday 21 June. Also on Tuesday 21, at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022. The timing of the discussion was divided between the Groups. The whole debate will be broadcast on television. I read the resolution adopted by the College of Senators Quaestors on the use of masks in the Chamber: In addition to and partial modification of the existing provisions on the prevention of contagion by Covid-19, the Senators can speak in the Chamber without wearing the mask for the protection of the airways, speaking from one of the two benches of the Commissions, in the specially indicated stations, or from their place, provided that an interpersonal distance of safety from the others present of at least two meters in each direction is guaranteed; this last mode also applies to the interventions of the representatives of the Government from their reserved benches. Senators may also be allowed to speak unmasked from other posts where the President points out that the conditions relating to the said interpersonal security distance are fulfilled. For speakers, the possibility of taking the floor from their place, without providing for the above-mentioned safety distance, wearing, as currently envisaged, the airway protection mask of type FFP2 (or equivalent) or higher.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u250	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 21 June: The Senate will be suspended in the week from 6 to 10 June, in relation to the local elections and referendums of 12 June 2022. [[Tuesday, June 14, h. 16,30-20 - Draft law n. 2330-B - Delegation to the Government in the matter of public contracts (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Draft law n. 2595 and connected - Delegations to the Government reform judicial system and CSM (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules (Thursday 16, at 15) Wednesday 15 " h. 15,30-20 Thursday 16 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to the draft law No 2330-B (Delegation to the Government in the matter of public contracts) and No 2595 and related (Delegations to the Government Reform Law and CSM) must be submitted by 12 noon on Monday 13 June. [[Monday 20 June h. 17 - Drawing of Law No. 2598 - Decree-Law No. 36, Further measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (decades on 29 June) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022 (Tuesday 21 June, 3 p.m.) Tuesday 21 " h. 9.30]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2598 (Decree-Law No 36, Further measures for implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 45' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 35' Mixed 35' FdI 27' IV-PSI 24' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 23' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 27' FIBP-UDC 24' PD 21' Mixed 21' FdI 16' IV-PSI 14' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 14' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 12' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u253	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise because the Brothers of Italy Group did not vote in favour of the proposal for the timetable that you have just presented to the House and I want to explain why to the Members of this House. The proposal, in fact, provides for a reduction in the time, in our opinion incomprehensible and intolerable, of the debate on two crucial aspects of political life and of the most recent political debate. The first is the reform of the CSM's judicial system. The majority proposal is that, given the fact that Minister Cartabia is unable to attend on other days if not Thursday morning, Parliament adapts itself to the needs of the Minister, rather than the Minister to the needs of Parliament. Therefore, such an important debate, such as the reform of the MSC, which has engaged for months in the general debate, the parliamentary debate in the Commission, is compressed in the Commission and reduced, with the presence of the Minister, only on Thursday morning. On Wednesday afternoon there will be a general discussion in which the Minister will not participate, because on other matters involved. This is yet another episode that testifies to the importance that the Government attaches to the activity of Parliament. Where there are no decrees in question, there is this general contempt for the activity of the majority and the opposition. I, of course, speak in the interests of the opposition. Mr Balboni and I have tabled dozens of amendments to the Justice Commission, not of a destructive and obstructive nature, but simply in order to be able to debate them. We have already understood that this cannot be done either in the Commission or in this House. That's the first reason. The second reason is linked to the other decree " monsters," a decree that naturally presents the requirements of necessity and urgency. There is nothing but a soup decree in which there is anything in it: 50 articles with brief hints about the universe, because we talk about everything. In addition, I would remind my colleagues that today there has been a school strike, linked precisely to the prediction that the Government makes, to include the negotiation and recruitment of school staff by decree-law, avoiding the debate with the social partners. We were hoping that at least this could be discussed in the Commission, in a timely manner adapted to the complexity and scope of the arguments. We realized that's not possible. Our proposal, Mr Calderoli, is to dedicate next week to the work of the committees on the MSM, on the reform of the judiciary, on Decree-Law No 36, which contains various points on the universe and on the whole world, also called PNRR, and to hold, Wednesday and Thursday next, the vote in this House, having devoted sufficient time to the examination, at least in the Commission. That is our proposal, and we are asking for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u254	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u256	CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, I believe that Mr Ciriani did not mean next week, but in two weeks. If so, then I agree with the proposal. The next is in fact the one before the elections and it has been established that there are no work of Assembly and Commissions. So if I have understood correctly and it was just a slip, I support the request to change the timetable for the work of this House and also the reasons for it. It is not serious to expect two such important and so dense measures, such as the reform of the MSC and the PNRR acts, to be voted on substantially without the possibility of having an in-depth debate in the Commission and in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciriani, enlighten us. CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, this is what Mr Crucioli meant.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u257	Thus, by synthesizing Senator Ciriani's proposal, the week following that of 12 June the Commission's work would take place and the entire programme of which it has read before would be moved to the following week. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, put forward by Senator Ciriani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u258	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-438.ana.u259	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 14 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6 p.m.
