ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 17 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u4	I communicate that on 17 March 2022 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 14 of 25 February 2022 laying down urgent provisions on the crisis in Ukraine" (2562).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u5	I communicate that on 21 March 2022 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Interior, Economic and Finance, Economic Development, Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, Environmental Transition, Labour and Social Policies, Health, Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March 2022 laying down urgent measures to combat the economic and humanitarian effects of the Ukrainian crisis" (2564).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 747, 2262, 2474, 2478, 2480 and 2538. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grimani, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft constitutional law, unanimously adopted by the 1st Commission, introduces constitutional recognition to the value of sport. I thank all the groups for allowing this and for supporting the choice of my appointment as rapporteur for the measure. We treat this issue in a very complex phase of social life, also because of the effects of the complicated years of pandemics, among other things on an important day, when we shared in the House of Deputies the emotions of the video connection with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. A subject like this, therefore, certainly important, risks going into the background at this time, but our duty is to best represent the citizens and best protect their interests and aspirations. It is therefore important for this bill to come to the Senate Chamber at first reading today, approved, as I said, with the support of all political forces. What was lacking was the recognition of sport as a republican objective and task around which the political community can find itself, as a vehicle of values directly linked to constitutional principles such as equality, solidarity and inclusion. Provisions of this kind are present in many Constitutions of the countries of the European Union: 9 out of 27 countries recognise sporting activity in their constitutional texts, as well as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill presented to the Senate Assembly is the result of the synthesis of six important bills presented by most parliamentary groups. A small committee has worked towards a synthesis and the parliamentary groups have shown that they can achieve a common objective without having any interests to prevail. I believe this has been an important achievement. The choice was to propose the constitutional amendment of Article 33. There was a debate: some political forces were inclined to amend Article 9, others to Article 32. In the end, the way in which Article 33 was amended was shared, which is more specifically linked to the values of education and training, because it was considered difficult to intervene on the fundamental principles referred to in Article 9, among other things the subject of an ongoing constitutional change. It was also considered extremely restrictive to reduce this amendment only to Article 32, which concerns the right to health. The arrangement that we are going to propose for the examination of the Senate provides that: the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotion value of psychophysical well-being and sports activity in all its forms. The subject, the Republic, as provided for in Article 114 of the Constitution, also includes the local self-governments, the Regions. The aim was to recognize the value of sport activity in three important directions: the educational aspect, which has determined the preference to insert the change in Article 33; therefore the educational value of sport, intended above all for the growth and training of the person; to this goes hand in hand with the social value of sport. Sporting is often an antidote to degradation and social exclusion and is often the heart of many associations in the third sector that work to create factors of aggregation at all levels. Finally, there is the value for health, declined in the text with the specific expression referring to the promotion of psychophysical well-being, to indicate a positive understanding of the concept of health, not only as a lack of pathologies, but as an improvement of the physical and mental condition. It was chosen to include the term sport activity and not the word sport, because it was considered improper for a foreign word to be included in the constitutional text. Above all, an amendment has been adopted in the Commission to extend the concept of sports activities, including all possible forms within it, thus trying not to exclude any form of sports activity. In this way it was possible to recognize sport through more facets: professional sport, amateur sport, amateur sport, organized and unorganized. An amendment was therefore adopted to widen the scope of the interpretation. This reform is important not only for the change in the article itself, but because it opens up spaces for reflection; supporting sport will not only mean supporting the expression sport itself, for the value it embodies, but proposing actions in various fields and above all ensuring greater organizational and financial support for associations and those who promote sports activities. It will mean that sport will clearly have to become one of the Republic's missions. Therefore, to support sports activity through the promotion and design of new and more widespread infrastructures will mean to support the growth of recreational events, involving local authorities, educational institutions, also through a greater availability of public spaces; it will mean to support educational initiatives that can promote a widespread culture of sport, among which include university courses and masters. Then there is the social aspect, of great importance. Supporting sports activity by recognizing a constitutional value also means giving strength to that universe dotted with more or less small realities, which put in place skills and humanity to give citizens the possibility, through motor activity, to improve their social and physical condition, to prevent diseases, to cure micro pathologies related to sedentaryness, to intertwine social relationships, to start sports activity girls and children, to offer opportunities for social reintegration to those who have had complicated paths in their lives, for example drug addiction or for the conclusion of prison paths. In essence, such a reform is not merely a constitutional recognition, but it wants to have the ambitious objective of determining the conditions for sporting activity to be truly the heart of inclusion and overcoming problems of a social nature. This reform therefore wants to have an important value and the drive from the political forces to promote a common text in a short time and to bring it to the attention of the Senate goes in this direction, in order to recognize the constitutional value of sports activity, but above all to create the conditions for a series of initiatives that truly promote sports activity towards those objectives that the text understands and which I have stated in my report, namely the educational, social and promotion aspects of human well-being. I therefore hope that the House will be able to demonstrate the same spirit as in the Commission, even driven by the concrete will of the Government in this direction, and that a rapid approval of the text will be allowed, which will enable the subsequent readings of the constitutional bill to be concluded within the legislature. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u8	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u9	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow Senators, in the electoral programme of Brothers of Italy for the policies of 2018 there was a point entitled "Contrast to poverty, efficient social policies and health protection" which included this sentence: Inclusion of sport in the Constitution as an essential tool of physical and mental well-being, value-added, contrast to youthful deviances, and ensuring motor activity from primary school to senior age. We are therefore particularly pleased that a point in our programme is being achieved, despite the fact that we have been in opposition during these four years of parliamentary term. On 6 August 2018, in fact, Senators Antonio Iannone and Nicola Calandrini of Fratelli d'Italia presented, in line with this point of the program, a constitutional bill in this sense, in order to include sports practice in the Constitution. Last year, further draft laws were presented by other Senate Groups and this led to very positive cooperation within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Grimani, and all the Members of the Commission, for the spirit has really been designed to produce a text that satisfies everyone and is as appropriate, effective as possible, written in a form appropriate to the Constitution. The importance of sports activity in our country has always grown. For a long time it has been an activity reserved for a few, high-income and high-level social people, who could have some leisure time to devote to sport, especially as young people. There has been a progressive enlargement, thanks also to the top sport, which has made known legendary or otherwise well-known figures of sport in many areas. We know that football is one of the most followed disciplines, but at the Olympics, for example, there is a great general enthusiasm for all sports. This is important because it has not only brought extraordinary results, which have given great satisfaction to Italians as spectators, as well as as as athletes, in many sectors, in the Olympics and in the great sports competitions, but also because it represented a great stimulus for many children and young people, who said: But then I can do it too. They saw the companies of great champions and understood that they could do so too. Gradually, the awareness that physical and sporting activity is an aspect of education, growth and social inclusion has increased and has led to a progressive involvement of increasingly wider parts of our population. So, the top sport also pulls the basic sport. Obviously it is a source of great prestige and satisfaction to see our athletes and our teams achieve great results, but this is particularly important when it pushes so many young people to this practice that brings benefits to physical health, to the sense of values, solidarity and loyalty (which are fundamental aspects of sport), as well as in terms of inclusion. In sport, except for episodes of boycotts and closures that I consider not positive, there has always been the encounter between athletes of many countries, of all social strata and of all political ideas and religions. Sport has been a great tool for integration and inclusion. For this reason, we have been opposed to the exclusion in these years of so many young people, which still lasts, for medical choices that have often been not theirs, but their parents. Sport is inclusion and keeping someone out is really against the sport spirit. Sport is also included for women, girls and girls. In fact, we know that at the beginning women's sports practice was greatly hindered and there was a natural skepticism also on the part of families, that male children did sports, while daughters girls other things. If there are health benefits, sport must obviously be open to all. Here too there has been the phenomenon of great characters of the top sport (one of these we have before us and it is the undersecretary Valentina Vezzali, who represents the Government), who have given the example of extraordinary sporting successes and also of extraordinary humanity. These people are not in a separate world, but they are part of society, they have roles in the family and then maybe they enter political activity. This has certainly contributed decisively to the development of sports practice at all levels for both males and females. Speaking of women's sports, we can only look with concern at what is happening more and more often and also in Italy (even in a less explosive way than what we have seen happen in the United States): I refer to gentlemen, with all the characteristics - from head to toe - of males, who say they feel female and therefore compete in women's categories. It is an obnoxious and a mockery for women who play sports and engage, who find themselves competing with men who, in most sports, are benefited by their skeletal and muscular structure and their metabolism. Brothers of Italy is particularly proud to have contributed decisively, starting the discussion that today leads to the inclusion of sport in the Constitution. This is not a goal in itself, but a further push to make sport increasingly accessible to all. For many Italians the sport practice is discreetly and sufficiently accessible, but for many others still not. There are still too many schools that have completely inadequate gyms (or even do not have them) and there are many of our young people and children who do not have this possibility. Sport must be accessible to all, including people with disabilities. We have also recently seen summit sport at the Paralympics. It is important that athletes who reach high levels encourage people with physical problems to engage in sports practice, which for them is perhaps even more beneficial than for others. Therefore, this inclusion, which we naturally hope will be crowned by the adoption of the bill in the subsequent readings that the Constitution provides, both as a stimulus and as a stimulus, when it comes to allocating resources and taking measures to make sport accessible to all, to put ourselves truly committed to the search for the resources that are needed, in the certainty that sport must be accessible to all as a means of cohesion and inclusion and as an instrument to place young people in a context that is attentive to values, loyalty and self-training in the most appropriate way to a true citizen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u10	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I take the floor in general on this subject with great pleasure, because I think it is of great importance. I want to begin my speech with the words of our Head of State, Sergio Mattarella, in a recent circumstance: "the values of sport (...) are universal values that concern everyone: courage, determination, inspiration. These are values that affect every human person. Why did I want to quote these words from President Mattarella? When we worked to intervene with a rule that introduced the protection of the value of sport in the Constitution, we wondered how to do so in the maximum respect of the letter of our Charter and its structure, but also in such a way as to make evident the multidimensionality of sport, its universal character, the ability that sport has to touch so many areas of human life and life not only individual, but collective. Well, I think that the wording that we have finally found, with serious in-depth work in the restricted committee and which has seen very broad unity in the Commission, is an appropriate formulation. Article 33 of our Constitution will eventually have this paragraph, if the reform is approved: The Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. As often happens when speaking in the Constitution, each of these words has, according to the intentions of those who have elaborated them, a strong specific weight and on each of these aspects of sport I would like to address briefly. Education: sport is loyalty to others, to those who participate with you in a competition, it is respect for the rules, it is fairness, if practiced in the right way. From this point of view, I think that sport can be a great vector of social cohesion and of learning the interdependence that characterizes us as members of a community and also a great vehicle of mutual respect. Of course, sport is also of great social importance. It has been observed by many - I believe it is true - that sport has the great ability to reduce differences and inequalities. When you practice sports you throw bridges, you don't build walls, this is when you do it at summit levels, and especially when you do it at amateur, basic, amateur levels. I think it helps social cohesion, and this is demonstrated by the fact that sport has the capacity to arouse mass passions, to produce a great deal of civil commitment to associationism and a great deal of volunteering. I think this characteristic is noteworthy and we thought about it when we decided to intervene in this respect. Then, the relationship between sport and health and therefore psychophysical well-being is immediate. From so many researches on the health of the population we know that the importance of prevention with physical activity, motor, and sports is great, so I think it is entirely correct to highlight, when we intervene with a constitutional reform, also this healthy ability of sport. Also the clarification that we protect and promote sport in all its forms is important, because sport, in our country as in others, has many forms and in many ways can contribute to health, to a better level of education and to a better quality of life, obviously with a special attention to those who, for subjective conditions, are more in difficulty in everyday life: I think above all of those who are the bearers of disability, but not only of this group of people. It is worth pointing out, at this stage of the debate, that in Europe nine out of every twenty-seven constitutional systems mention explicit constitutional protection of sports activity; we become the tenth, and that too seems to me to be something worthy of emphasis. We need to know how many groups of companies, how many people the sport mobilizes. There is a beautiful research by Istat, which I recommend to read, from the title "The sport practice in Italy", which provides numbers that make impression: the people who practice continuously or occasionally sports in Italy are more than 30 million, that is more than half of the population; the sports promotion agencies group millions of members. This means that there is a lot of Italy that does sport, that considers sport important, and so much associationism that has been created to carry forward the values of sport. Obviously, with all respect for the top sport, which makes us dream, makes us cheer and makes us exalt, we know that a remarkable social importance has the basic sport, the one that animates the life of the neighborhoods, the suburbs. From this point of view - and I thank you for the attention that this reform has devoted to the undersecretary Vezzali - I think the interventions that the Government tries to put on the field to continuously improve the accessibility of sports equipment, which means allowing more people to do sports and to collect all those benefits that sport, as we have said, is able to bring. I believe that in a forum like this we must say with great force that sport is far from a B-series subject, as some would say. [[Applause]] Sport, in my opinion, is not a secondary value at all, but it is a matter of primary importance and it is for all the reasons I have mentioned. Finally, let me make a point of method. I would like as President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. During the period during which I had the honour of being President of the Commission, so from July 2020 to today, we managed to bring to the end some punctual but significant constitutional reforms: I am thinking of the rewriting of Article 58, which allowed us to equal the age to elect senators to what exists to elect Members; I am thinking of the reform of Article 9 and Article 33, which allowed us to bring environmental protection to the centre of constitutional provisions. I am also thinking of Article 119, the promotion and protection of insularity: it has not yet become a constitutional law, like the other two that I mentioned, but in this branch of Parliament at the end of 2021 it was adopted and I hope that it will have a swift path to the House. I am also thinking of the reform of Article 75, the link to the legislator in the referenda: it is an important way of protecting the will of the people and it is also a reform that has come out with very broad numbers of approval from the Commission and I hope it can be scheduled as soon as possible. For these reforms we have tested and tested a method, the preventive search for an understanding on inclusive formulations, which I think can be an example at a time when we must not lose the conviction that we can make other changes that the country has been waiting for a long time and that, even if they are not global reforms, they can make a difference in the efficiency of our institutions, both in constitutional reforms and in the reform of the Rules of Procedure that I think in a few weeks will be the focus of our attention, first in the junta for the Rules of Procedure and then in the Assembly. These are the issues I wanted to address. I started with a quote from a great man. Let me conclude by quoting another great man like Nelson Mandela, who has said words about sport that are not easy to forget: sport - Mandela said in 2000 - has the power to change the world, to unite people; it speaks a language that everyone understands and is capable of bringing hope where there was despair before. I think they're very true words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u12	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u13	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very nice day for so many young people of all social classes, of all the orders of study, of all the possible experiences with which they can measure themselves, experiencing at the same time two important aspects of their lives. The first is the ability to overcome, the concrete challenge, the one that is dictated in individual sports by the goal that you and only you (and you compared to yourself) can achieve. The other aspect is that of teamwork: an extraordinary goal for which you have friends, people with whom you strongly share a result that becomes reachable only if you are united. Well, those that sport gives to education are formidable objectives: on the one hand, the ability of self-domination and to project towards ever higher and demanding goals; on the other hand, that of solidarity, unity, collaboration and loyalty. These two dimensions, one that we could define horizontal, so we are together to project ourselves towards something that transcends us, and another vertical one, the one for which each one is measured with himself courageously and with all the concentration capacity of which he is capable, are two coordinates that in an educational project are completely indispensable. If we were to bring back two of the essential dimensions of educational planning we should say this to a boy: you must know how to be with yourself, you must know how to overcome constantly and continuously yourself, you must know how to be with others and you must know how to be service to others, you must be open to others, you must accept the satisfaction of shared victory and the equally great satisfaction of a victory that you have not yet achieved but that, as we say so many times, is not a defeat, it is an experience: it is a way to care, to understand where I have mistaken, where we have wronged and learn together in this great and beautiful victory that is the ability to best express all our talents, our talents, our dreams. The bill in our examination is a small piece that, however, will be able to initiate very important processes, one of which I believe comes directly from having wanted to place this provision in Article 33 of the Constitution, therefore with reference above all to the educational aspects. We will therefore have to ensure that the teaching of sport is entrusted to competent people in schools. For a long time, in some school orders, the teaching has been entrusted to the teacher, to the teacher, to a person able to make friends with the children in this great play activity, which, moreover, has very important and indispensable objectives, but which do not coincide with those that concern sport education more specifically. Therefore, I hope that the Government will be able to lead the measure to the extreme consequences, which means having highly qualified teachers, who have obtained a degree in motor science and this must be an important objective for all of us to achieve. The bill in question also has another objective, which concerns - I would say affectionately - many of us, that is the sporting activity that takes place at a certain age, as elderly people, in that area of maturity to which we must reach today in great form, in order to live these years that have been given to us by nutritional models, by a widespread well-being, by the very fact that for almost eighty years we have not experienced war. If we want to reach an age, which once defined itself as the old age and which today no one would know where to place - for many reasons in fact we have reached and overcome many of the challenges that could have been presented at that time - sports activity is crucial in order to win the battles against those that are almost chronic diseases: I think of the back pain, that clumsiness that many times becomes the indirect cause for which you can fall, you can stumble, you can break a femur or face trauma. This does not happen when you have an elastic body, trained, that does gymnastics, that does exercise in the presence, once again, of competent people who take you by the hand, who help you and that they do for you: sweet gymnastics courses, gymnastics courses of thousand types, but something that guarantees well-being and a really better quality of life. From small to very large, sport can always become an important street companion. If this bill had been bound by the other article of the Constitution, which has health as its reference point, we would have remembered - and we remember it at the same time - how sport is one of the four health determinants. It is an important health determinant, which however helps to create basic well-being, and therefore we must take into account that sports helps to reduce the consumption of medicines against cholesterol, to better control insulin and therefore also in the diabetic patient manages to increase the quality of life in terms of lower consumption of medicines. So many good things pass through this little bill. I would like to add something that seems important to me. I have proposed an amendment and I hope that it will enjoy the full attention of the Government and of my colleagues and it is an emphasis: sport must also be considered a good of order and constitutional rank for people with any disability.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u14	I would kindly ask my colleague who is watching a video in this House without even using the earphones to have respect for this House and for those who are intervening, at least wearing earphones. [[Applause]] Please, Senator Binetti, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u15	Thank you, President. I'm referring to sports that affects people with disabilities. I have a strong conviction that I have matured in my professional activity as a child neuropsychiater many years ago, before being a senator, seeing children with some disabilities who did not participate in the games of the class because it could be dangerous, because they could be hurt, because they could go to some accident. Somehow, we've seen almost a marginalization of these kids. Then fortunately - but this is still an elitist experience - we saw the sports activities related to the Paralympics explode. I do not want to forget this summer the beauty of seeing people who with difficulty knew how to assume their seemingly wounded physicality and project it towards results of such value as to beat those that most people would achieve. I wish that in this bill, precisely because of constitutional rank, it would be explicitly written that there will be no discrimination and there will be no justification, not even in good faith; for these children the opportunity will be preserved, tailored for them and in sharing with others, to express, through the corporeity, through the presumed disability or, as I like to call it more, the different skill, incredible talents. Even more than solidarity, it will be the talents who make the comrades say that they do not have the same difficulties: "if he succeeds, I can do so too". Therefore, it will be a strengthening of the entire educational model and of all that concerns well-being in its psychological, physical and mental dimension. Thank you very much, President; thank you, Mr. Representative of the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u17	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that physical activity in general and sporting activity in particular (the latter in all its various forms) are one of the fundamental cornerstones for the psychophysical well-being of the individual, obviously if associated with proper nutrition and, in general, with healthy and regular lifestyles. Sport also represents at any age, but in particular in the childhood and adolescent age, an inclusive model, which allows participation, sharing, social aggregation, healthy and correct competition, interaction, comparison and fight against social isolation. Sporting practice allows a model of life open to relationships, broadens individual interests, stimulates and strengthens personality, offering new interests, able to fight apathy and disinterest, proposing goals and goals that, especially in children and young people (but not only), are fundamental to overcome the flattening and the lack of interests that increasingly characterize our everyday life. However, we must not forget that sport often represents a concrete way of combating social hardship and juvenile deviance, the latter always present and lurking in various forms: alcohol consumption or drugs, micro-criminality. In addition to this social aspect, Mr President, sport is - as I said - an indispensable instrument of psychophysical well-being in preventing the overall state of health of every citizen. Hence the need for the organization and dissemination of sports practice to be, for any community and for any country, a clear demonstration of the degree of maturity and social, civil and cultural sensitivity achieved. It is not by chance that the models in which the sporting and amateur organizational structures are more capillaries and inclusive are represented by the economically and socially more advanced countries, in which the indicators of the quality of life have reached an extremely positive response. Now, if the right to health is recognised as a primary and absolute right, the State must protect this inalienable right in a full and concrete way. Health and sport have always been related, as has always been recognized by science. As a result, health protection, as enshrined in Article 32 of our Constitution, also goes through targeted socio-educational interventions, such as those of a vigorous and planned promotion of sport. The European Union itself is committed to contributing to the promotion of sport, recognising its social and educational function. We welcome the approval of this measure, which establishes the right to sport and motor activity as a right of the human person, removing discrimination and inequalities. I am deeply convinced, Mr President, of the importance of sporting activity on psychophysical health and its social relevance, and I have tabled a draft law to facilitate access to the sport activities of children, with particular regard to the less well-off social groups, but unfortunately it is still in the 6th Commission, which is drawing up. These measures can be the obvious sign of a change of course and the recognition that the State really allows access to sports practice for all. Article 1 of the measure that we are going to approve today quotes: "the Republic protects health also through the promotion of activities aimed at engaging and developing the psychomotor abilities of the person and facilitates access to sports practice." Well, Mr President, how can we not agree with this fundamental principle? The 5 Star Movement, which has always been attentive to all the social, economic and health problems of citizens and their needs in everyday life, can only support a measure that goes in the right direction of protecting the rights of citizens, respecting their psychophysical integrity and guaranteeing their inalienable prerogatives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u18	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u19	Mr President, we are proud and delighted to speak today on a subject for which a bill of parliamentary initiative is finally being called into question. In fact, as you know, Mr Undersecretary, it has unfortunately not been possible in recent years, since we have been clogged up by the urgent decree that has not allowed us to do the work that Parliament is called upon to do: to put the initiative of its Members at the centre. This is a happy moment for us, a time when a bill, signed by one of our colleagues, Senator Iannone of the Brothers of Italy, introduces a change in the Constitution, aimed at recognizing the importance of sport, filling a serious present gap, evidently, before this moment. Brothers of Italy, through this amendment, demanded that Article 32 of the Constitution be added a paragraph that would protect sports activities and guarantee access to sports practice. The original text stated: "The Republic also protects health through the promotion of activities aimed at engaging and developing the psychomotor skills of people and facilitates access to sports practice." With this reading sport and health are made complementary to each other, and therefore sport is recognized and counted among fundamental constitutional rights such as education, health and environmental protection, bearer of values such as fair competition and solidarity. Italy clearly adapts to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that the Union contributes to the promotion of European profiles of sport, taking into account its specific features, its structures based on volunteering and its social and educational function. Italy, with the approval of this amendment to the Constitution would also make a further step forward compared to other European countries, since the recognition of the value of sport in the Constitution, to date exists only in a few European states such as Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Lithuania, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain and Hungary. The text submitted to the Assembly is the summary of a series of different but convergent constitutional bills presented by various different parliamentary groups and proposes, through its only article, to add a paragraph to Article 33 of the Constitution. The provision provides that the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sports activity in all its forms. The content of this value is then declined in three directions that are not in hierarchical relationship with each other, but equiordained and complementary. The placement in Article 33 made it preferable to indicate first the educational value for the growth and training of the person. This is accompanied by social value: sport is often an antidote to degradation and social exclusion; it is the basis of countless realities in the third sector and, in general, it is a powerful factor of aggregation at all levels, including the entire national community. Finally there is the value for health, declined from the text in the most specific terms of promoting psychophysical well-being to indicate a positive understanding of the concept of health not only as absence of pathologies, but as an improvement of the physical and mental conditions of each individual. We hope, Mr President-in-Office, that the approval of this amendment will take place soon; to this end, everyone's cooperation will be important. In our view, before the end of this parliamentary term, we could have this rule in the Constitution. This will depend on the will of Parliament, but also of the Government. The successive governments over the years seem to have recognized the value of sport only when Italy won the European Football Championship, when Berrettini arrived in the final at Wimbledon or when the Ferrari returned to make their fans dream again. Sport, before being passionate, must be well-being; sport arrives where state and institutions often fail to reach, helping to spread the values on which our national identity is based. For Brothers of Italy it is not a question of a flag because for us sport is exactly the opposite. It is no coincidence that Giorgia Meloni in these years of pandemic has asked several times to have the sport taken up again, obviously in safety, not as access to the stadium, but as a sport activity. Sport in fact is life and it makes no sense to have facilities, gyms and swimming pools closed and see public transport full of people. In this regard our national leader in these years of pandemics has waged a battle. Mr Undersecretary, before the pandemic, sport generated 4% of our national gross domestic product. Now he is on his knees, many realities have closed down and those who resist very often do so in the total indifference of the State, who has not been able to give strong and concrete help and, indeed, with the history of the super greenpass has cut out many teenagers, many of our children from sports activities, interrupting dreams, ambitions, but also strong occasions of sociality. (17.28) (Followed by Mr Calandrini). We of Brothers of Italy hope that the approval of the norm and its incorporation into the Constitution will also help to avoid such distortions in the future. We hope then that the adoption of the bill will be the beginning of the reversal of a path with greater attention to politics in the world of sport and perhaps also that it will be evident in the restoration of a Ministry dedicated to this competence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today means that sport comes to the Constitution. Other European states have already introduced it into the Constitutional Charters. I would remind you that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has stated that sport has European profiles, taking into account its specific features, its voluntary structures and its educational social function. In particular, the Union aims to develop the European dimension of sport by promoting fairness and openness in sport competitions, cooperation between bodies responsible for sport, protecting the physical and moral integrity of sportsmen and sportsmen, in particular young people and women to whom all legal institutions for the protection of motherhood must be recognised. This bill has certainly found the agreement of all political groups, because sport is an absolute value that has no political color. The provision provides that the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sports activity in all its forms. The subject is the Republic, that is not only the State, but also the Regions and local self-governments, with their respective competences and functions in this field. The promotion of sport passes through the suitability of the structures: unfortunately still today there are dilapidated structures (schools, swimming pools) or even non-existent. I have always been convinced of the importance of sport within our society, in fact since the beginning of my mandate I have presented two draft laws: the first on sport in children's institutions, because sport is also legal, and the other aimed at promoting motor and sport education in children's school and primary school. This last estimate on primary school was accepted by an amendment of the Government in the last budget law. Thanks to the Undersecretary Vezzali, who supported this amendment, today we have managed to have the teaching of motor education in the fourth and fifth classes of primary school and I hope that in the near future it can be extended from the first grade. I believe that sport is the bearer of an extraordinary educational potential: education and sport are a combination that needs synergy. Today, more than ever, a strong alliance between sports and educational institutions is fundamental in order to activate that positive contamination of universal and timeless values of sport. The structuring of society requires a cultural and social pact that guarantees in all environments the learning of skills and values that could transform everyone's life. The movement is life, the movement educates, shapes character, defines our choices and the collective future; sport represents the third educational agency after the family and school. At a particular moment, sport must be accessible to all, regardless of social groups and abilities, because sport must be in favour of the skilled but also the disabled, because sport is inclusion. The importance of motor activity is evident not only by the fact that it is useful, if not decisive, for a healthy and balanced evolution from the psychophysical and human point of view of the person, but also as an element of socialization and sharing of a correct lifestyle and interpersonal relationships. Sports activity is universally recognized as an irreplaceable means of preventing many diseases or dysfunctions related to sedentaryness, obesity, malabsorption syndrome, diabetes, cardiovascular disease. (17.33) (Follows PIARULLI). It is a complicated, tragic moment in which talking about sport seems almost absurd, but precisely from our classic reminiscences we must remember that sport has been an element of peace, so I hope that this bill can be a fundamental element precisely for that peace that in this historical moment is particularly required, especially by our young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for Brothers of Italy, sport has never been a B-series subject. In the electoral program of our party, which we had submitted to the voters in 2018, we wrote with our leader Giorgia Meloni that sport had to find this its recognition in the Constitution. Today is therefore a happy day, but also important. The hope is that this process will know its completion. Since the first days of the legislature we have devoted ourselves to this bill, precisely the Senate Act 747 which I presented together with my colleague Mr Calandrini, who did not say so in his speech. There is a historical sensitivity of the right on this subject: I would like to remind this House that the first to present a bill for the recognition of sport in Constitution was the late Senator Giulio Maceratini, Leader of the National Alliance in those years [[Applause]] Today we are happy, after the excellent work that has been done, in my opinion, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I would like to thank President Parrini, the rapporteur, Mr Grimani, and of course also undersecretary Vezzali, who, in his opinion, knows well what this moment represents for a universe of positivity which is our world of sport. It is the recognition that must be given to the victories of our champions, that excite us and strengthen the sense of belonging to the national community, but it is also the recognition to all that world of the basic practice of sport, which stubbornly makes sacrifices to achieve those objectives and those goals that all the colleagues who have spoken in this House have stated. For these reasons we have the duty to give this world the recognition to which it has longed for years, moreover, at a time of great difficulty, as Mr Calandrini has reminded us, in which sudden choices, in our opinion, have undermined and brought to their knees all those who want to continue to exercise this passion in order to ensure that sport is and continues to be at all times education, sociality and health protection through a healthy lifestyle. I believe that today's passage must be dedicated first and foremost to this world that deserves in its entirety, with the vow of each one of you, to know a new beginning and to be recognized for what it is. We are talking about people who represent a great school of life and who make sure that every difference and every barrier falls through sports practice. It is a world that keeps many young people away from the deviances and the road and that in many cases represents - let me say - especially in the South, the only positive social outlet that young people have, through the culture of sports sacrifice, also understand how man is built in life. And since examples, gestures, experience are worth more than so much theory and often rhetoric, we think that today we start a process that is going to give credit to that world of sport that thinks its turnover is passion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u24	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when days are full of gloomy worries and thoughts, today is a beautiful day. Sport will be protected by the Constitution for the primary good it is. We are still touching our Constitution, but we are touching it slowly, we are touching it gently, as must be done, only to make it, if possible, even more precise, even more effective in protecting those fundamental rights that are the basis of a fair and just democratic system, which are the basis of our republican history. We have already done so by including in our Charter the theme of the environment, which today is very central, whose protection depends on every form of sustainability and the very well-being of our planet and, consequently, of every living being, starting with the human being. Now we do it with sport, which is the most incredible system of well-being, communication, integration, psychophysical care and accessory to medicine, education and social inclusion. Forza Italia, in both cases, presented its bill starting from afar. I have shared, in fact, the path, first with Stefania Prestigiacomo and Michela Brambilla on the theme of the environment, and today with our Giusy Versace, energetic and unstoppable champion of sport in general and of sport in Constitution in particular, theme of which he has made his most important competition. The constitutional bill aims to enhance sports activity among the principles of the Italian Constitution. Compared to the initial text, which provided for the amendment of Article 32, the one relating to health, the text in question amends Article 33, the one relating to education, also Title II. Therefore, the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport activity. An example, because sport is an example: the most immediate example of correct social behavior; sportsmanship, a very high value. Forza Italia is proud to have presented one of the six draft laws examined and then become a single text, the one we are preparing to vote on today, also presenting amendments and an agenda to protect the most vulnerable and elderly people, as best described by my colleague Binetti, and to activate, in the most fragile areas of the country, that safety net that sport can represent for those young people who are on the margins of society. Moreover, the bill tends to revive voluntary activities, which also play a role in the aspects of public health promotion through physical activity, in order to ensure that further and concrete practical implementation is given to the principle that inspires it. I think of a case on all: that of the "The Passion of Yara," an association founded by Maura and Fulvio Gambirasio, parents of Yara, girl killed at thirteen in Bergamasco just as she returned from a training of rhythmic gymnastics. Today, through the promotion and help of the children who want to devote themselves to sport, these parents have transformed the pain into concrete action, of healthy growth, of so many young people who alone could not have crowned their athletic dream. And I also greet Keba, Nathan and Joel, his brothers, who are very active in this activity. Sport and sports activity are now of fundamental importance in the daily life of every person, without limits of age, gender and physical status. It is one of the most effective forms of non-verbal communication that allows communication without the need for words or a common language and is the most harmonizing and accessible. Yet it was never thought to give him constitutional protection until today. Today it is all the more appropriate for several reasons. Sport contributes in a fundamental way to physical and psychophysical well-being; sports activity is useful in the treatment of certain diseases and is fundamental in helping some disabilities, thus becoming a concrete aid for families. Sporting contributes to rationalising and reducing health spending; sport mobilises the positive feelings of millions of people; sport also has a significant economic value. The fact, therefore, of having recognized the dignity of sports activity in the Constitution may give further impetus to the ordinary legislative initiative and will facilitate the industriousness of sports associations and gymnasiums which, at this time even more because of the pandemic closures, have been touched by a number of problems. I have been a sportswoman and I know how much sport has helped me in my growth with the values of loyalty, sharing, fairness, commitment and constancy. I am a teacher and nothing has ever saddened me more than a school system that sometimes still does not understand that sports activity, even competitive, and school commitment can peacefully live together, indeed they become a strengthening of the commitment in all sports and education disciplines. [[Applause]] Physical education, like artistic and musical education, must become a fundamental subject. I remind myself and my fellow teachers that a boy and a girl who engage in sport will always engage in school, because for them, before everything else, there is respect for the rules and discipline: just put them in a position to reconcile everything and not putting them - instead - the sticks in the wheel. In order to complete all this it is necessary to strengthen and give the right attention to the school gyms, ensuring an adequate teaching system and held by competent and specialized teachers. We are all witnesses of how sport unites a nation under its own flag, creating admiration for the best, and that the only wars that should be fought are only healthy Olympic competitions. President Berlusconi, together with Senator Galliani, who also signed the bill of Forza Italia, have won sports competitions and for them today there is also the satisfaction of this constitutional law. Let's not talk about how therapeutic sport is for every physical and psychic pathology. That is why we will work to ensure that basic doctors can prescribe sports as therapy, providing specific exemptions for courses in sports gyms. Sport is also harmonising for people with disabilities. Otherwise, it is the correct term, because I would define these people far more skilled than most of us in proving to be incredible champions who have become an example and icons of our time. When I say champions, I mean life champions. In this regard, our second appeal today and our action are aimed at ensuring that we no longer talk about Paralympics, but only about Olympic Games with different categories of competition (but this is another story and I look into the very eyes of the Undersecretary Vezzali). [[Applause]] That the Constitution protects sport is just and correct, as well as that it protects all forms of sports activity and the ability of each to practice it in every form. It's really beautiful to be here today, all together, just in the name of sport. I thank President Parrini for the demonstration of sportsmanship that he has reserved for me and he knows why. Sportsmanship is the value that should be the basis of every human action, because let us remember that sport means peace and never as at this moment we really need it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u26	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u27	Mr President, in my opinion, the Senate is rising today, allowing educational values to stand tall in our Constitutional Charter. By approving this constitutional bill in the test proposed by the Commission, I imagine unanimously, we insert a new paragraph in Article 33 of the Constitution which reads: The Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. A concept must immediately be reiterated: sport has always assumed meanings much more important and much deeper than the race and the event itself and has always had a relevance as a social and collective aspect. Just think of how collective identification in our country takes place much easier through national sports. Not surprisingly, in the Next generation Italy, extreme attention is paid to sport. One of the examples - there are so many, but I quote one - is urban regeneration, which is one of the instruments that favour inclusion. Speaking of the Constitution, since it is a constitutional reform, I remember - we already know - that the constituent Assembly did not explicitly accept sport at the beginning, because it had a fear; we came from a difficult, ugly and dark period and was afraid that the competitive disciplines could exploit again, for propaganda purposes or even worse for ideological proselytism, the agony. But what did the constituent Fathers do? The word'sport' in Article 2, Article 18 and Article 32 of the Constitution disappeared - let me say this, Mr President. We also know that Europe preserves the values of modern sport, as we know from the dossier that has been drawn up - I take this opportunity to thank the senate officials who are always special - that other Member States of the European Union have in their constitution provisions relating to sport. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, sports associations are among the most widespread social formations and this happens not only in our country, but throughout the world. I have been a man of sport, I am still one for what is possible, but sport has taught me an infinite number of things; I have listed some, but they are not enough: respect for the other, collaboration, integration, membership, healthy competition, discipline, constancy, commitment, sacrifice, motivation, self-esteem, loyalty and ethics. How did they teach me and so many other young people at the time? Desiring emotions in us, so in the best way possible. One of the characteristics of sport is also the relational one, the one that favors the observance of the rules. Each of us is willing to give to others what he expects for himself, wants for himself, demands for himself. Another example, but there are thousands of them, is the spirit of group: you manage in group to get much more than you can achieve individually. Above all, I agree with the speech of Senator Gallone that I have just heard, one can accept diversity. In a passage by the rapporteur, Mr Grimani - whom I thank - he calls it an antidote to degradation and social exclusion and he is very well aware of it. I thank him for that. With your permission, President, I also mention the President of the Republic who just now, on an occasion of celebrations for the Olympics, told them that you thrilled the Italians. Like all of us in this House today, I am very pleased with this extraordinary first step and important milestone that we are achieving. Moreover, we reach it with a political transversality and it is no coincidence that it is given to us precisely by the positivity that sport expresses itself. A few weeks ago the paralympic and Olympic athletes involved us all, they made us feel like a great team and today even here in Parliament, for once, we will feel like a great team. [[Applause]] Mr President, I will not use all my time, but I will also be allowed a personal digression. I have a dad who comes from the world of sport and when he stopped - he says quit, there are many colleagues here - he obviously had moments of disappointment, as they all have when they finish. The grip he had was to be able to give other young people the same possibilities so that they could have the same teachings from the world of sport. This teaching passed on to me and it was the reason why, after finishing my higher education, I started the ISEF. It was a great teaching. If you think that in my small town a lot of young referees have followed Serie A football fields, as a percentage of the number of inhabitants and members of the AIA, the result was really amazing. [[Applause]] Just that example and that teaching made me go that way. In conclusion, I want to quote a maxim, at this very difficult moment of international crisis: in sport you win without killing, in war you kill often without winning. [[Applause]] I believe that today, ladies and gentlemen, to use sports terms, we are excited about endorphins, we are injecting sources of health, sources of well-being and - let me say - also sources of peace in that Charter which unites our people on shared values. I conclude by congratulating all of us on this first step. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u28	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u29	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u30	Mr President, I do not intend to speak in response. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government. [[Brusio.]] I'm gonna ask the senators to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my warm thanks to President Parrini, to the rapporteur, Mr Grimani, and to the members of the 1st Commission for their work, which led to a shared text, which represents an important synthesis effort, since it started from six different draft laws. I also thank all the audit staff who, with their experience and expertise, stressed the need to give sport dignity in the Constitution. The result of the vote in the Commission, which approved the unified text unanimously, finally recognised the importance of sport and its values. Sport, as is well known, contributes to the formation of the person, to his psychophysical well-being, is a useful tool of integration, teaches the respect of the rules and respect for the opponent. This first parliamentary passage, reached in just under a hundred days, is the first of the four necessary to make this amendment final. Only then will we have the introduction of sport among the values protected by the Constitution. This is a historic milestone that aligns us with the 2009 Lisbon Treaty and the Constitutional Charters of several Member States, which already provide for the promotion of sport. Today I hope, in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution, that the parliamentary process will be completed during this parliamentary term. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u32	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles of the unified text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u33	Mr President, I preannounce the withdrawal of amendments 1.9 and 1.101, first signed by Senators Gallone and Binetti, which we have transformed into an agenda signed by Senators Binetti, Gallone and Vitali, which is now before the Government. The withdrawal is therefore subject to the inclusion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u34	Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of Amendments 1.2, 1.4 and 1.100, but not because I am satisfied with the solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u35	We take note of the withdrawal. Undersecretary Vezzali, do you accept the agenda G1,900? Mr Vezzali, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G1900 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u38	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, undersecretary Vezzali, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Grimani, Mr Parrini, and all my colleagues from both the 1st and 7th Commission, for they have really done teamwork to use sports language. It was a unitary work, which allows us to open an important page and put a first piece in the welfare reform that we have been working on for a long time. Let me say first of all that this is an important day... [[Brusio]] Mr President, this is impossible to move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u39	Senator Blinks, I understand you perfectly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u40	I call on Members who have to leave the House to do so in silence. Anyone who remains is silent in order to allow colleagues to speak. Senator, let's try, please. SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President, I will try to raise my voice a little. I was saying that this is an important day for sport because the right to sport as well as the right to education and health is finally established, as we have done in recent weeks by including environmental protection in the Constitution. It is important at such a difficult time: in the two years of the pandemic we have seen what it meant for families that our boys - of all ages - could not in any way do sports. We have seen it and we are still experiencing it now, unfortunately, with the tragic events of the war. At the same time - as has also been mentioned previously - sport represents a symbolic, ideal value, that which has no borders. I would add that it is also the most effective drug to combat and prevent so many diseases, the most effective tool to combat addictions, to break down barriers and to promote real social inclusion. But sport is also an instrument of equal opportunities, as well as being a big flywheel for the economy of our country. You think that sport represents, from an economic point of view, about 1.7% of Italian GDP. And it has a social, educational, cultural value, because it forms the personality, promotes the growth of our children and forms them to the values, ideals, but also to the respect of the rules, discipline, and healthy lifestyles, such as the correct nutrition, which then promote the psychophysical well-being. It is therefore a medicine that has no contra-indications. The measure we are going to vote on today is important because - as I said before - it is a fundamental leg of welfare reform. I look very carefully at the undersecretary Vezzali, because it is a dream that is realized together today here in the Senate, but that has ancient roots; already in the last legislature in the Chamber we had in fact worked together to achieve this important result and I hope that there is also an acceleration in the House to approve it quickly. It is important because it embraces and embraces the same reform of sport, as has been said before. Let us think of women's professionalism - a result we hope to achieve soon - but also of employment, of sports work, thus recognizing professionalism to a great world that must be protected, which has spent two years really difficult, if we think of the sports company and the operators of sports facilities. For all the aspects we have mentioned - school, health, social inclusion and cultural value - we can finally open a new chapter, also in the sense of speeding up and facilitating access to economic resources, as has already been done in other measures, where support has certainly come, but it is certainly not enough yet. We need that all sport, especially basic sport, can really work at full speed, even with the opening of stadiums to capacity at 100%, which we will soon see, already Thursday, with the first game of our Italy, which will be played in the city of Palermo. Many considerations have to be made and I believe that at such a dramatic and difficult time the fact that we have seen the Olympics - so the Ukrainian flag and the proud looks of the Ukrainian athletes, who have had the ability and the strength to be seen in such an important event - has shown us that sport unites and can also be symbolically important as a value and instrument of peace, perhaps able to overcome some conflicts that we hope can actually end soon. Finally, I would like to say that with the approval of this important measure I am convinced that the many legislative proposals under consideration by the Government and the parliamentary committees will be able to find rapid approval. We have remembered the measure that concerns the graduates in motor sciences, with an important experimentation that will start already from September in the fourth and fifth elementary, hoping that then this can really become a stable measure, with the assumption of the graduates in motor sciences, because we need teachers prepared also on this subject. Just as we need to professionalise sport more and more with important managers and to secure - it is a work that Government and Parliament are doing together - our gyms and make them new and more beautiful where we do not yet have them, thanks also to the PNRR. I think about the safety of sports facilities, because we know that many are dilapidated, while in many Italian territories they really do not exist. This is also a way to combat and combat the many inequalities, which are certainly first of all social and even see entire areas of the country without a place of sports activity, without an educational and valuable place. This then obliges us to rethink new models, models of society and cities different from the past. I conclude by saying that we are very satisfied. We have tabled our own legislative proposal, as the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I., and I am glad that we have finally found a unified text from all over Parliament. We shall therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u43	BARBARO (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the world of sport. I would like to stress the reasons which led to the favourable attitude of the Brothers of Italy already within the Commission and now in the Chamber, with the vote in favour that we are about to express. I think it is appropriate to make a small summary of the stages through which we have arrived or, better, we will arrive at the approval of this important measure, historical and epochal for the world of sport. And I think it is appropriate to do so not only and not so much for the thanks, which are nevertheless due, but because it is essential to frame precisely the cultural, historical and political context within which Parliament's choice has matured. It's something I want to leave to the record. Even today, in the course of the general discussion, as has been the case for many years, there has been talk in forms that are often emphatic of the world of sport, and not only with regard to the aspects related to the conquest of medals by our champions, who obviously inflate us, but also with regard to the side aspects related to the world of sport. However, this has not always been the case; there have been problems and it is right to turn the spotlight on them. It is right that they should be put on the record - if we are to say so - to try not to repeat the mistakes that have characterized the failure to take off or, better, the lack of conception of the right dignity that belongs to the world of sport. My thoughts run immediately to the first time that a proposal for a constitutional law for the reform of the world of sport has arrived in the Italian Parliament, namely the inclusion of the law, the protection and the promotion of sport within our Constitution. Senator Iannone has already mentioned this and I believe it is necessary to add other considerations to what was historically the first attempt in Parliament, through a bill presented in 1997 by Senator Maceratini, then National Alliance Leader, [[Applause]] An important man for the institutions, who has always had at heart the fate of sport. Already Senator Maceratini 25 years ago - I repeat that twenty-five years have passed since the first draft law arrived in Parliament - he had sensed that, in order to reform the Italian sports system, it was necessary to build a framework. And what better framework for a constitutional reform to reform our country's sports system? A dignity therefore of higher rank that could not fail to pass through a law of constitutional reform. I read from his proposal for a law, which, although it dates back to twenty-five years ago, is still current: to raise the right to carry out sports at constitutional level, understood as a recreational moment, but also of spiritual education and regeneration, it is proposed that it would align the Italian State with other European States that have already assumed this determination and that recognize this right for all citizens as a primary right, worthy of maximum protection. I said this not only to pay the right and proper tribute to Senator Maceratini, but also to reconstruct the history of the Italian right-wing approach to this matter. As Senator Iannone has already pointed out, we have never considered sport a subject of series b and it is yet another proof of the fact that even in this legislature for the first time the bill, signed by Senators Iannone and Calandrini, has been chronologically deposited. This has not only led to the birth of a new interest, but has also consolidated the cultural path that our party has always intended to undertake towards the world of sport. It must also be said that there have been some ferments which have allowed outside Parliament to lay down the legislative conditions for framing the measure. This must be done by two associations, Cultura Italiae and Sport Italia, which have put all the parties around a table, who then found themselves in the Commission to manage the incardination of the measure, giving their contribution. If there had not been also the decisive contribution of the undersecretary Valentina Vezzali, this contribution might not have taken a form. I remember we started talking about it on December 6th, just under four months ago. Nevertheless, the associations have managed to determine the stimulus and obtain the convinced support of the Undersecretary Vezzali that - I remember - also as a Member of Parliament had presented a bill to this effect, pushing Parliament, also thanks to its contribution, in this direction; a direction for which I really feel I thank all the members of the Commission, starting with President Parrini, for the contribution given. Allow me also to thank our Parent Company in the Commission, Senator Malan, for the prompt presence, especially in terms of receiving the requests made by our party. I would like to stress this because in seventy years we have never managed to reach the point that we are reaching today; a point that recognizes the importance not only of sport, but also of the protagonists who have determined its growth in our country. I am referring to the huge network, the most widespread social network in our country; to the millions of people who practice, to the millions of volunteers, hundreds of thousands of practitioners who through sports associations allow to provide, in the absence of a significant social cost, an important service. The network of associationism is the most widespread social network. It is a territorial garrison that, however, has never been cared for as it should have been by the institutions, precisely because there was a lack of cultural drive that went, through the bestowal in the norm of higher rank, to confer a different deity to the world of sport. I was talking about impressive numbers: 100,000. If we were to compare with other structures not necessarily sporting, we could recall the tobacconists, which in our country are 50,000, or the parishes, which are 28,000. Consider, then, how impressive is the number of the great social garrison that are the associations, which can be defined, without fear of being denied, a real educational agency. Despite the widespread presence in our country of this great social fabric, there have never been conditions for the world of sport to obtain the right recognitions and this for two reasons, the one son of the other: in our country we have always approached the world of sport as an extremely competitive fact; we have forgotten sport in its facets; we have forgotten to consider sport in all its meanings. He has done well, Brothers of Italy, to table an amendment which seemed to bring back to just five words the meaning of our action, because we have proposed that sports activities should be protected in all their forms. We wanted to defend the world of sport in all its meanings and this must never be forgotten, because the lack of a 360 degree sport culture in our country has produced the degenerations of which I have spoken before. (18.20) (Following BARBARO). As we come to the conclusion, we must absolutely try to take advantage of this opportunity to reap all the benefits we can, of course, from the Constitution fixed and not attributable to the political will of the rotating government or a minister. We must try to raise our attention to the world of sport, giving it a stable dimension. For these reasons, today I am firmly, enthusiastically and proudly voting in favour of this measure by the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u46	BITI (PD). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is needless to say that, if we are to think of our Constitution as a kind of programme with objectives and, therefore, aims, we would say that among them there is the achievement of full social inclusion, the training as adequate as possible at all levels for all and for all, and an optimal state of health. We can say that the introduction of sport - and then I will specify better that it is not sport, but sport - in the Constitution tells us that we have added a piece in order to fully achieve the objectives that our Charter sets itself. I should like to thank the 1st Commission, which has followed the work of this draft constitutional law; the rapporteur, the President and all the colleagues who have worked without preconceptions or foreclosures. I remember that we started from different proposals, because everyone had included sports activity, physical activity, in different articles of the Constitution and, also thanks to the Undersecretary Vezzali, whom I thank for having followed us in this work, we entered into the substance, with discussions that were also up to the work we set ourselves. In this way, even in a rather short time, we have come to achieve this change, indeed to add to Article 33 of our Constitution a new paragraph which states that the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. The discussion whether to insert the word "sport" or another word was equally fascinating. I would like to make a mention here and thank Mr Bressa, although he is not here today, who has brought us back to the value of vocabulary and words, which must be safeguarded. It is therefore necessary to preserve our primary law, which cannot be treated regardless of the objective of using carefully chosen words, which have all-embracing meanings and which, however, speak Italian at the highest level. Referring to sports activity in all its forms tells us that it must be as inclusive as possible, and this has been another area of discussion. In fact, all of us, in the same way, have searched for words that could really understand all the sports, all the ways of doing sports and all those who practice sports, from the younger children to the older people. Let us not forget that the world of sport, perhaps before so many others - there were also amendments in this regard and I thank you for the way the subject has been dealt with - also through the Paralympic Federations and the Italian Paralympic Committee, like the National Olympic Committee, has carried out that inclusion activity that it has always had. I was reading some sports history this morning, even trying to get ready for my explanation of vote. It is very interesting to note that since the birth of humanity - there have been apparitions even at the time of the Egyptians, beyond the fact that, as we all know, the Greeks and Romans have taught us a lot in this sense - sports activity, measuring, competing, trying to improve themselves by competing with others have always been part of the history of humanity. Sports and sports have experienced changes over the centuries until the time of the Enlightenment, in which sport as a well-being and as a focus on the state of health, not only physical, but also mental and psychic, has reached its maximum. With De Coubertin, then, who founded the modern Olympics, he had as a seal on these activities, on sport. Needless to say, sports associations and all those who practice sports in some way represent the social backbone of Italy. It is essential to bear in mind how important it is, especially for young people and young people, to find in their cities and their countries, from the largest to the smallest, to the suburbs, associations that allow them to measure themselves and learn to be with each other and to relate to them according to precise rules, and therefore also to grow in the relationship with other people, as well as to guarantee a definitely better state of health. For this reason, sport is also a garrison against all marginalities: we have said so many times and in many moments we have perhaps even filled our mouths. We won't be able to say it now. In the Senate we made the choice - we know how important it is - to guarantee even those who have difficulties, to those who are marginalized to be able to compete at the level of others and, therefore, to feel part of a society, part of a whole and no longer excluded. It is for all these reasons that, of course, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this draft Constitutional Reform Act. Much has been said about always touching the Constitution. First of all, no one has told us that the Constitution is untouchable. We have already done a great deal to include environmental protection as one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution in Article 9: I have Mr Mirabelli next to me and I also see Mr Ferrazzi, who have worked a great deal in the Environment Commission in this respect. The world goes on and we realize how important these issues are in our countries. I remember that many other countries in Europe have already included sport in the Constitution. It was necessary, therefore, to give recognition to something that is much more than a moment of joy. We've been through a lot of these years, especially in the last year. After the pandemic there were also jokes: being able to go out to run, being able to go out to play sports, we managed to excel. I say this here, in front of an Olympic champion: the moments of aggregation and cross-cutting joy, from large to small, from more diverse parties to people who come from more different areas, the great sports joys have always seen us united. And national unity is also measured in those moments. Not only for this, but for everything I said before, for its social value, for its value of prevention for health and its educational value, sport could not remain outside our Constitutional Charter. My colleague Dario Parrini stole my quote, and I must say that we did not agree. He also quoted Nelson Mandela. From the small town of Florence - the only city outside South Africa to have the sports hall dedicated to Nelson Mandela - I cannot help but mention a part of that quotation that Mr Parrini did not mention. Nelson Mandela said that sport has the power to change the world; it has the power to inspire; it has the power to unite people in a way that few other things do. If we all think about the moments that, from sportsmen who have not been successful to sportsmen, we have lived in that area, we will be able to understand that today we have really done something important for the whole of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we would have had and I hope we will have many other opportunities to give the sport in our country the right weight. In particular, I am referring to the need, which Mr Barbaro also mentioned, for strong support for basic associationism, which is what actually best guarantees citizens the protection of health, which is fundamental, and psychophysical well-being. With regret, however, I must say that, although many steps have been taken, we are not exactly the country that privileges in its institutions, with active support, the basic sport. Let me give you an example. Mr. Undersecretary, you will know better than I how much it costs a family to enroll the child in soccer school. It's a burden for families. And if it costs a family to guarantee the possibility of going to the pool and practicing many sports. Knowing very well that progress has certainly been made in relation to the past, I say that, from this point of view, in order to protect the right to access everyone, without distinction, to sport, it is necessary to develop resources and ways of supporting local authorities and to invest even more in this area of school. I make this brief premise because we, unlike other groups, are not at all enthusiastic and convinced of the inclusion of sport in the Constitution, on the basis of a very simple reasoning. For less than a month, the constitutional reform that amended Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution has been promulgated - and is therefore in force - by including among the fundamental principles the protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems, also in the interest of future generations, with an intergenerational pact. As you and your colleagues will understand, we are talking about a matter that concerns the future of humanity and living species, given the climatic and environmental emergency. The Consultative Committee has fortunately always interpreted Article 9 in an extensive sense and has pushed us even more to an explicit insertion in the Constitution. On the other hand, in Article 41 we have rightly provided that business should not, in addition to being in conflict with social usefulness, be detrimental to health and the environment. Why do I make this reference? In the debate that started on that constitutional reform, many constitutionalists (President Calderoli will remember this perfectly) told us that although they agreed on the inclusion of environmental protection, there could be a risk of promoting spot interventions on Part I of the Constitution in this way. Exactly after a month we produced this further reform. What I am saying is not already about the fundamental value of sport, but about the very high risk of starting a period with punctual micro-interventions on the Constitution in which everyone respects the issue that is most important to him. This is the fundamental point and, in my opinion, should lead everyone to a very careful reflection. You know better than I do that we came from a time when there had been a lot of propaganda about sport and within the constituent Assembly, in outlining Articles 32, 33 and 34 (on the school), this topic and the topics of motor education and sports activity were well present in the constitutional debate of the constituent Mothers and Fathers, but a well-defined choice was made, namely to intervene more generally on well-being. I have tabled amendments because, if the inclusion of the subject were to be there, it would perhaps have been necessary to link it to health protection and therefore to Article 32. I think that in the other passages that the draft Constitutional Law under consideration will have to address a reflection on the need to prevent us from intervening in this way on Part I of the Constitution (i.e. on the more planning and programmatic part and not on the fundamental principles). I believe that we must take this reflection in depth to prevent a new period of constitutional micro-modifications in which each party, party and group wants to bring to the attention issues for which it considers constitutional recognition necessary. For all these reasons, we will abstain, on the understanding that before the Constitution everyone has the freedom to express himself as he thinks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u52	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will be almost telegraphic, because everything has been said and I agree with everything that has been said in this House. I should like to stress the satisfaction of the launch of this constitutional change that does justice I do not know whether a forgetfulness or an evaluation of opportunities that at that time our constituent Fathers believed to make in drawing up a Charter that is still current and keeps a ban on the times (even if it needs some retouching and someone has already been done), so obviously they made that choice, inspired by the fact that it was out of a period when sport was a reference point of a regime that had deprived the country of freedom and did not want to fall back in the same mistake. Seventy years later, we fixed this gap and gave constitutionally protected dignity to an activity that I believe has a social function. By now Italy is a multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-racial country and what better instrument, if not sport, to consolidate solidarity and compactness and to avoid social tensions? Sport is used to sacrifice, sweat, work and solidarity; it is used to helping the teammate in difficulty, to being loyal, to respecting the opponent, to fighting him in competition in a fair and correct way, but respecting him: moving these principles within social life, it is about respecting those who think differently from us, those who have a different cult, those who have a different skin color than ours. These are principles that can be easily adapted to social life. What we are achieving today is an important result, and we regret that part of Parliament is abstaining on this measure, which has seen a complete deepening within the Commission. The Undersecretary who followed our work can acknowledge this, because, following the discussion on the desirability of including the protection of sport in Article 32 or 33, we considered the second to be more appropriate. We are talking about Title II of the Constitution, the one that talks about ethical-social relations, and it seemed to us that sport had a better place in Article 33. We have identified a statement that keeps in everything, not only competitive sport, not only amateur sport, but also that of children, practiced in schools, and that of associations, who have maintained this sector. We will vote with conviction today on this measure and we hope that the House will also have a preferential lane, so that by the end of this parliamentary term this reform can have effective approval. But now there is a responsibility of the Government; Parliament has played its part and included in the Constitution the protection of sport, but it would be little if then the Government did not put the head and the resources necessary to really promote the dissemination, at all levels, of sport, starting from being close to associations, that up to now have supported the burdens in a voluntarist way, to the municipalities and the territorial authorities, in realizing the structures, and to the less well-off, in order to allow universal access to sport. We hope that the Government will realise this need and that, in keeping with the constraints of finance, it will annually set up a programme of encouragement, support and funding for these initiatives, so that sport becomes truly a universal subject. I must also thank my colleagues Binetti and Gallone, who with a sense of responsibility, understanding the important and delicate moment we had faced in this situation, have withdrawn their amendments, transforming them into an agenda that recommends that the Government also keep in mind the possibility of access to the less well-off, the elderly and the disabled, and also to spread the benefits that this inclusion of sport in the Constitution can derive to the community in terms of reducing social conflicts and health spending, improving the quality of life and opportunities and opportunities that must be given to our children, who must be engaged in this activity rather than being at the mercy of perhaps bad companies or bad imitations. It is with this hope and with this wish that we vote in a firm way for the constitutional reform under consideration, by subscribing to all that colleagues in various ways have said (we cannot fail to agree on the reasons and the aims of this legislative intervention), hoping that the Government will be able to take advantage of this commitment of Parliament and can make it effective with concrete initiatives and funding. I announce and confirm the favorable vote of Forza Italia to this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u55	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is with a misplaced sense of inadequacy that I am speaking today, because the facts that are happening not far from us obviously cannot but be the focus of our attention. I would also like to make a few points, in the few minutes I have to present our Group's vote on sport in the Constitution, to some aspects which, in my opinion, are useful for the reflection of all of us. The value of sport why put it in the Constitution? Why put the word "sport" into the constitution, or rather the phrase "sporting activity," which has been correctly stated in this legal text as it is broad and absolutely exhaustive of the value of sport? We do this because we all think that sport is a fundamental value of civil life and that, as such, it has the full dignity of being contained within the Constitutional Charter, which is the foundation of our democracy and the legislative realization of the social relations that we must recognize every day in our daily lives. We insert sports activity into the Constitution because it represents essentiality: sport as an acclaimed example of human valorization. Sports activity, as indicated in the norm that we are going to approve today, is the basis of educational and social development and the promotion of psychophysical well-being. I quote for brevity something that is very close to my heart and that I know is very dear to the Undersecretary Vezzali, whom I thank for his presence and for having attended the process of this bill. Sport is one of the key moments for people who have various types of disability or who have diseases that unfortunately can in many cases be degenerative. I am thinking, for example, of Parkinson's disease: I personally had the opportunity to meet people who are suffering from this degenerative disease and who, however, thanks to sport, have not only delayed its effects but have even achieved exceptional sporting results of absolute first order. It is precisely by thinking of these people - of examples we could make countless of them - that we must find one of the fundamental reasons why sport must be recognised within the Constitution. Sport, as I said before, is to be understood in the widest possible sense, and I address myself to the Undersecretary Vezzali who knows how much I care about a broad conception. I am thinking of Olympic sports - of which you have given great proof, Undersecretary - but I am also thinking of amateur sports or sports practiced by people with disabilities (the recent Paralympics are an example). I think about sports for the elderly, for everyone. I add an aspect that the Undersecretary has transmitted to us, but that all our sportsmen transmit to us: sport is emotion; it is a fundamental step, because it represents the extrinsicity of the human being. We're not just sports results, we're not just numbers; we're emotions. And now more than ever, considering what is happening in Ukraine, we must also remember this passage: being a man does not simply mean being politicians, lawyers or engineers; it means being emotions. I believe that sport has always witnessed this in history. We can cite countless examples of people who have marked history. I like to remember an example all Italian, who did not like to speak much, but acted with his sports actions and the titles achieved. I am referring to the very Italian Gino Bartali, whom we know well and who in Italian history has contributed in various ways to build that something that he did not like to say. Let us remember that it has helped save hundreds of lives of Jews who risked being deported, so to be killed [[Applause]] , but he didn't like to advertise it, because he always said that good is done, but it's not said and certain medals hang on the soul and not on the jacket. I believe that this is a fundamental example of what it means to be truly sporty. As I said, there have been many sportsmen in history and, in order to relate to what is happening, to the war events that, unfortunately, are close, in the course of history we have witnessed too many times that sport has had to suffer the effects of the misunderstanding that we human beings often fail to overcome. I am thinking, for example, of the various boycotts during the Cold War or during the various political crises. I am thinking of the sporting sanctions that have been enacted over and over again against certain states, including Russia, for example, for various behaviors (let us think of the current totally unjustified aggression). From the examples of history we have to learn that sometimes sport, bringing emotion, also brings logic into people's heads. I believe that the emotion of a Prime Minister, who today told us what is going on in his country, can make us understand what is going on maybe even in the attacking country. We can never - and I stress this a hundred times - justify war [[Applause]] , this must be clear, but we must have the ability to understand. Perhaps also thanks to sport, which, precisely, allows us to be together, to live together and to understand each other, we will be able to understand how we have reached this point and how we can get out of this crisis, which I hope will end as soon as possible. With this very emotional and - I hope - little rhetorical spirit, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group to the bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u58	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is totally in favour of the recognition in the Constitution of the educational, social and cultural value of sport in all its forms. We are all aware of the importance that sport has for the psychophysical well-being of the people who practice it and who live it. The 5 Star Movement is also totally in favour of the method used to introduce this small, but significant constitutional change. It is the method, President, of precise and detailed changes, the only ones able to allow citizens, when asked in a possible constitutional confirmation referendum, to vote with awareness, confirming with a yes or rejecting with a no what the Chambers voted for. This is quite different, President, from what happened in 2006, with a reform approved in Parliament by the centre-right, and in 2016, with the chaotic and heterogeneous so-called Renzi reform, both - rightly - are clearly rejected by the Italian people. We also believe that this new paragraph inserted in Article 33 of our Constitution is very important, because it succeeds at the same time to understand both all the persons addressed to the possibility of enhancing and practicing sports, but also all types of sports activities: as a result, they will be able to benefit from it young and less young, professional athletes, but also simple practitioners of any discipline, because sport, dear colleagues, obviously, as you have all repeated, is physical and mental health, is sociality, is happiness, is fun and is also culture, aimed at making known the benefits of both therapeutic and preventive pathologies, as well as educational. The inclusion of sport in the Constitution - that is what we must say and that is what, in my opinion, must make us happy, of course, but not exultant - represents only the first, albeit important, step, because the real challenge comes after the adoption in the Constitution and it is to realize this new constitutional aspect given to sport and sports activity, making it effective and concrete. This, President, only the Italian Republic can do. Organisational but also financial support is needed to allow the effective and increasing participation in the sport practice of all those who wish to do so. Sport - or, better still, sporting activity in all its forms, as this new formulation, referred to in the paragraph inserted in Article 33 - must clearly become one of the missions of the Italian Republic, which means, in practice, increasing sports facilities and making them more suitable. For us, the presence of a soccer field, a basketball or volleyball field or any other sport means having a democratic garrison on the territory and for this reason we support sports practice in every form and we consider it essential to recognize its constitutional value. However, this also means multiplying the competitive events, but also the playful ones, involving the local authorities, which - we remember - have a fundamental role in sport and in particular in the sports system, as provided for in Article 117 of our Constitution. Enhancing sport also means having more tools to fight corruption in sport, especially at very high levels, where the gains are huge and fight doping in sport, which has all too often soiled it in recent years. Sport is something great, because, in addition to all the positive effects that we have and have said, colleagues, it unites all the countries of the world, regardless of the political, religious or cultural divisions, and unites the same citizens within the countries, with that union between the peoples that sounds very current today, if we consider the ongoing war in Ukraine, but also the many other wars around the world, of which we often forget because they are more distant from us. But now we have to run, because time is an enemy and it is up to us Members to decide whether to make the best use of it by taking this small big opportunity. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken, all the political forces and the Government, who have allowed us, within a few weeks, to take this first step and this first result to Parliament. Of course, I declare the 5 Star Movimento super-vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u61	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, it was not just for the sporting spirit, you will allow to play with an opponent, with someone who will want not to let you win easy. Yes, because I must admit that this umpteenth exercise of touching the first part of the Constitution is becoming too frequent, in a time span and above all in a legislature that has trampled on constitutional rights and freedoms, not least on war. [[Applause]] You are bringing us, also in the light of President Draghi's statements, to a conflict; and this would really be a tragedy. Apart from the sport talk, you in this legislature, with two governments, have devastated sport. The boys were unfortunately closed; they even had to play with the masks in the open air and they had to perform the green pass to go to the gym. That seems to me far from all the words you have used in this House. Not to mention the gyms, intended as facilities and as a business activity: you have seen them close and you have done nothing. Unfortunately, we have some impressive data on the closure of sports activities. And what about sports at school? You set up a principle, but after that you have to find money for teachers of physical education; but it has to be trained teachers, people who know the culture and education of sport. Motor activity in elementary and middle school needs qualified staff, but you don't have money. Do we want to talk about the places where kids should practice sports? The gyms of public school buildings fall apart, but the money is never there. Not to mention all those gyms that still have asbestos, but they pretend they don't see anything. I'm going to close, always in a logic in which you will forgive if there is an opponent, otherwise play a little ball against the wall. Italexit will vote 'no', but this is not a preliminary vote on sport. It is a political vote, which highlights above all the fact that we are touching the first part of the Constitution for the umpteenth time. Why does sport and the right to happiness not? Then let's reschedule all rights. I hope that there will be the possibility of reaffirming the rights and freedoms which are present in the Constitution and which have been betrayed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u62	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call on the unanimous vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of constitutional law no. 747, 2262, 2474, 2478, 2480 and 2538, composed of only Article 1, with the following title: "Edit Article 33 of the Constitution, in the field of sport" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in first resolution. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u65	RAUTI (FdI). Mr. President, [[Brusio]] I apologize, but such is the noise that I can't even hear his words. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have been talking about sport...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u66	I urge my fellow Members not to hold back in the Chamber to chat, but to go out and allow the speeches at the end of the sitting. Please! It is bad to have to name and surnames, which then remain in the shorthand report, but at this point I start to make them.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u67	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, today we have talked about sport, highlighting its social and physical value. There's a piece of the world, Afghanistan, where women can't practice any kind of sport. I am speaking today, referring to the subject that we have just discussed, because I have joined the relay of parliamentarians that was promoted by the Observatory on the Status of Afghan Women, born in the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights of the Senate. This Observatory has carried out many initiatives that I am not here to remember; among them a relay, started on January 1, aimed at a communication and awareness-raising operation through social media and the press, but also through the accessions of parliamentarians and their interventions in the Assembly. To this end, we take turns at the end of the session, even in general chaos, to recall this path and invite other colleagues from the Senate and the House to join the relay of freedom for Afghan women. It is clear and well-known - increasingly known and clearer, I would say - that since last August, since the Taliban regained power, in Afghanistan we have reached zero year. Mr President, I would like to ask you a second more by wasting time at first to have the silence. For Afghan women and girls the dark years have returned with the systematic violation of all fundamental rights: the right to study, to work, to make politics and also to manifest. At one stroke, all the difficult achievements of Afghan women in every sector are erased. In addition to this, hunger and cold have also arrived. So, while we are rightly concerned about the tragedy of Ukraine, we cannot forget the drama of women, children, girls and the Afghan people. I call on other colleagues to join our relay. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u70	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was International Down Children's Day. I think we all know some Down children; we know their sympathy, affection, the desire to learn by looking at what others do, the need for company, the group and integration. We also know that today, thanks to a whole series of combined systems, which include education, training, sports activity and also an approach to medicine and therefore health, which manages to fill those that can be pathologies that sometimes from birth they bring with them, these children can achieve high results, even very significant. Every once in a while you hear that a Down guy has even managed to graduate or that a Down guy is working in a certain context and performing certain functions. We see them. Yesterday I received a short footage of a Down boy playing the piano amazingly well. They are young people who, if properly stimulated, really transform their difficulties into goals that they achieve for the joy and satisfaction of their families, their brothers and sisters, the people they have next door. Being, however, so easy to make a diagnosis of Down even before the children are born, because their is a survey of chromosomes (they have an extra chromosome, Trisomy 2), sometimes it happens that, precisely for this reason, they are not born. For fear that they may suffer and may represent an excessive burden for their families, they are not born. Today the scientific world, the social world and the sports world tell us that they are children who can live their condition with joy and can transmit joy and serenity. Yesterday was the World Day of Down Syndrome and in conclusion I would like to spend a spear in favor of the lives of those children, in favour of the recognition of their right to life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u73	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, the Zibibbo grape is the prince cultivar of Pantelleria. Known for the aromatic richness conferred by the ripening of the sun and the rich volcanic soil, it is one of the very symbols of the island of Pantelleria. The tradition and hard work of those farmers derive from the zibibbo the DOC Moscato di Pantelleria, produced in numerous cellars of the island, whose procedure is subject to a strict disciplinary that protects its ancient cultivation technique, the first agricultural practice to be entered since 2014 in the register of intangible goods of humanity, as well as the planting of the vine tree that is a unique island. In 2019, with the majority vote of the Voluntary Consortium for the protection and enhancement of DOC wines on the island of Pantelleria, it was decided to introduce in the product specification the use of the widest geographical indication. "Sicilia" in addition to the designation "Pantelleria DOC". This is a competition practice endorsed by the major Sicilian producers, who have understood the possibility of selling a DOC wine at lower prices, being able to rely on their own plants on the largest island, which certainly has better logistics and more competitive prices, given the mechanized agriculture. The change was not welcomed by Panteschi producers, who, worried about the possibility of assimilating their production to the less expensive and tiring one conducted on the largest island, have repeatedly expressed concerns about the future of the wine-growing business. The purchase of grapes from the large Sicilian wineries becomes the way to exert pressure and dictate not only economic guidelines and commercial evaluation, but also the very existence of heroic viticulture in Pantelleria. The greatest risk is that the young people left to cultivate about 400 hectares of Zibibbo (up to a few years ago there were about 4,000) decide to abandon everything and seek luck elsewhere. In this way, those who have caused forced labour risk also calling into question the UNESCO recognition, which means tourism and attraction for the island and its products. Paying little of the grapes and taking away an identity means creating abandonment; lowering the quality profile means pushing the consumer towards other products. The Zibibbo for Panteschi is a source of income and attraction, it is an identity of the place that must not be split, because it is a guarantee for those who heroically remain to live and work according to the millenary culture of Pantesca, which is also a typical of Italy itself. I express my closeness to the producers and citizens who care about the future of the island of Pantelleria and struggle for an almond tree and I hope that the Government will provide economic support for the heroic wine-growing of Pantelleria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u76	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, yesterday was the 27th day of memory and commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. This day is officially recognized by the institutions and wants to highlight the great work done and the constant commitment of the vast network of associations, schools, social realities that have always been involved in the front row and without fear in the fight against the mafias. This day represents the right recognition of the path made, a difficult and tortuous path, studded unfortunately by many deaths, tragedies and pains, but by a constant civil commitment to a real path of change and small great successes, such as the assets confiscated from the mafia and reused by many associations for social and cultural growth and, often, for the recovery of many fragile people or in difficulty. In those places where the law of violence, blood, submission and silence represented normality, we have managed to bring the culture of non-violence and solidarity, with a new look at a free future that we all want to build. It is a day of collective reflection on the innocent victims of the mafias; a day to symbolically tighten around their family members; a day to affirm the right-duty to the truth; a moment to publicly denounce the presence, unfortunately still strong, of mafia criminal organizations and their connivance with civil society. Reading the names of the victims is the way not to forget those men, those women, those children and girls, so as not to kill their ideas, their example of fighting mafias with an open face, without retreating in the face of threats and blackmail: 1,500 names not to forget. Alongside the many servants of the State, we also remember those who, despite him, found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time, innocent victims of mad bullets or explosive devices directed at others. In yesterday's Naples event, the slogan was "Terra mia." Culture. Culture: taking care of our community, culture in the land, culture in consciences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u79	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today, 22 March, is World Water Day and for this reason I bring to your attention an urgent appeal from my region, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in particular a note from the regional councillor Antonio Callegaris on the cause of the serious death of fish that took place these days along the river Isonzo. The Regional Fisheries Authority has tried in vain to recover. In particular situations such as the drought that has hit our borderland, Slovenia is no longer guaranteeing daily peaks, but only minimal flows. This situation is not sustainable for the course of the Soa. I appeal to the Ministers to put the matter to the neighbouring neighbouring State. In addition, a reflection is also needed on the issue of river dewatering for the creation of deeper areas, creating real holes that allow the fish to survive in the event of drought, at least for the sufficient time for recovery. On this subject it is necessary to urgently provide for the environmental restrictions for the sacred river to the Homeland, which condemn to a horrific death the fish fauna. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u80	Colleagues, at this point, as already announced, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 8.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u81	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 31 March. The agenda for tomorrow's session will include, at 10 a.m., the discussion from the drawing up of the bill on the declaration of national monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento. At 3.30 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022. Thursday 24, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers of the Interior, the Economy and Finance, the University and Research. Next week the following measures will be discussed, where concluded by the Commissions: the decree-law on swine fever and the crisis in Ukraine; from the writing site, the bill for the enhancement of the Pistoia Blues Festival. The usual question time will take place at 3 p.m. on Thursday 31 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u82	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 31 March: [[Wednesday 23 March h. 10 - Drawing of Law No. 2166 - Declaration of National Monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento (from the writing site) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022 (15.30)]] [[Thursday, 24 March h. 15 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] [[Tuesday, March 29, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2533 - Decree-Law n. 9, African swine fever (ends on April 18) (where concluded by the Commissions) - Drawing of law n. 2562 - Decree-Law n. 14, Crisis in Ukraine (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (ends on April 26) (ends by the Commissions) - Drawing of law n. 1228 - Valorization of the Pistoia Blues Festival (from the writing office) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 31, 15) Wednesday 30 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 31 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 2562 (Law No 14, Crisis in Ukraine) will have to be tabled by 5 p.m. on Thursday 24 March. Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 15' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2533 (Decree-Law No 9, African swine fever) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 42'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 2562 (Decree-Law No. 14, Crisis in Ukraine) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 42' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 30' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u83	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-416.ana.u84	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 23 March, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.06 p.m.
