ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u2	Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2668, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the Vice-President of the 5th Commission, Senator Rivolta, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u6	Mr President, the Budget Committee was able to draw up draft law No 2668 at 12 noon on Tuesday. The general debate began and it was found that it was impossible to reach the vote on the mandate to the rapporteur. So we are going back to the House for the discussion of the amendments. In the consultative session, the Budget Committee gave a non-obstacle opinion on the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to what Senator Rivolta has said, the draft law n. 2668, since the examination has not been completed in the Budget Committee, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are here today in a very complex context and we must all be aware that we are living a historic period that brings great challenges compared to what were not only our real expectations, but also those of Italian citizens. It is necessary, but even more appropriate, to understand that the difficulties that we will have to overcome in the coming months will have to be addressed properly and immediately in order to catch up in a short time thirty years of delays. Our country, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, has arrived late; Italy's growth compared to partners such as France, Spain and Germany, has found us defenceless compared to the crisis produced by the pandemic and now by the geopolitical crisis that unfortunately sees Russia invading Ukraine. So, before we talk about the so-called aid decree, which has a very significant symbolic and political value, we need to understand what scenario we are moving into. Italy is experiencing an economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic, as I said before, which is affecting the lifestyle of Italians with irreversible effects. As we have said several times, nothing will be the same as before and it is really so with aggravating agents. We then have an ongoing geopolitical crisis that sees opposites not just Russia and Ukraine, but two blocs: the Western bloc and the Asian bloc. The Western bloc has a central focus in Europe. The critical element of this opposition sees Europe's present weakness as something that we absolutely must contain and overcome. The two blocs at this moment are engaged in a conflict, not war, but political and commercial, which sees them engaged in the grabbing of energy resources and raw materials, with the risk of famine on the doorstep. This could particularly affect Africa because if ships do not depart from Ukraine, from the port of Odessa in a particular way, about 250 million Africans will not be able to have either flour or wheat and this could create an out-of-control phenomenon, as far as immigration is concerned. We will therefore have the risk of loss of life, but above all a very heavy impact on our territory. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine is at the door of the European Union and within the heart of Europe and so far has caused devastating effects first from a socio-humanitarian point of view and then from a food and energy point of view. It is, I repeat, an element of synthesis with respect to a much broader conflict that will certainly not end there, but not from the military point of view, as far as the confrontation between Asian and Western powers is concerned. If we want to look at the immediate consequences on our country's economy, it is the energy crisis that is hitting us the most. First of all, this crisis involves a dizzying cut in production. Let us imagine, for example, the energy companies that need gas and oil in order to be able to work. Not only that, this crisis will last for the whole winter. At the same time, we will have an unsustainable increase in costs for our citizens which will lead to an increase in uncontrolled inflation. I remember that it has already increased to almost 8%. The latter, especially if caused by exogenous reasons, will be difficult to control: it will lead to poverty and may cause social instability. This is a critical element that we need to assess. In the short and medium term, a number of problems will have to be dealt with and contained in addition to inflation, such as the continuing slowdown in economic growth and stagnation. We know that inflation and stagnation create stagflation, which is a very heavy word for economists. We will have to review our energy and raw materials supply policies, keep under control the increase in the spread (i.e. the degree of confidence that the world has towards Italy, since it will have negative effects on interest rates) and promote, by strengthening Italy's role, the negotiations to contain and finally resolve the war between Russia and Ukraine. However, we can only do this if we are compact, united and strong. Peace must be brought to Ukraine as soon as possible, but this can only happen with an Italy capable of maintaining its credibility (especially political, given the criticalities of this moment compared to its historical partners) and with a foreign policy that ensures a strong alignment with the European Union and NATO. Foreign policy is a serious issue on which we cannot joke. Italy must be a certain partner for anyone who interacts with our country. Basically, our country needs to be strong and able to deal immediately with a number of innumerable issues that fall every day on our citizens and on their lives. It is necessary, therefore, that the Government intervenes and that the institutions and the State be present and make themselves feel close to the Italians. For this reason, we must vote on this measure, which requires an act of responsibility towards the citizens. The aid decree today has a symbolic political value that goes beyond the contents of it, giving the possibility to allocate billions of euros in order to reduce the expensive bills for both businesses and citizens and to support the incomes of families affected by inflation. It is important here today to understand what are the changes and new measures contained in the text of the conversion of the decree, remembering that it is an economic measure born from the specific need to contain the increase in prices caused by the war between Russia and Ukraine but, as I said before, it will not end with the end of the conflict. In fact, even if this war were to be stopped tomorrow morning, the crisis facing the West and Asia for the supply of raw materials will not end. In the course of the passage to the Chamber the provision has been improved. We know that no measure can be so perfect that it can solve a very complex problem. Therefore, efforts have been made to intervene on the income of citizenship, a very important tool that has helped the less well-off. Then there is the problem of the reliability of the tax credit; in this case we are talking about the superbonus, which has given great help to the construction companies. There have been difficulties. However - I repeat - no measure is perfect at the beginning. We have looked carefully at workers with part-time contracts and given a series of aids, but this is not the final solution. These are just a few examples that make us understand how vital, important and absolutely necessary it is to approve such a measure and how much this decision corresponds to an assumption of responsibility towards all Italians in the face of the problems linked to the global geopolitical crisis that we are experiencing and that necessarily obliges us to compactness among all political forces in order to be able to recover from the economic and social crisis that comes down on our society. Italians today more than ever ask our country for political compactness. The divisions for electoral purposes do not serve the Italians. We are talking about billions of aid to families and workers for a long time, which has been going on for two years because of the pandemic, in which we have been gripped by health and economic difficulties. Of course, there is much to be done and this measure is an intermediate step compared to the other measures that will be adopted, all of which can be improved and improved. However, the invitation which I make to all my colleagues on behalf of my Group is to political compactness. The Italians want a strong state that looks at the interests of Italy today and for the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u9	Senator Corrado is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with only one aspect of the so-called aid decree-law and that is what concerns culture, because there is very little talk about culture in this measure and the competent Ministry is mentioned only in Articles 10 and 51. In Article 10 - and I would like to say to those who did not notice it - the novelty is that the right to vote is eliminated by the representative of the Ministry of Culture in the PNRR-PNIEC technical committee. Congratulations to the Government Dragons and to those who support it; it is really a good progress for Italy. Moreover, on July 30, 2021, in the now famous curtain Draghi-Franceschini at the G20 in the Colosseum, in which the President stated that if you listen to the experts you do not go anywhere, it was immediately clear to all that he was referring exclusively to experts of cultural goods: those are and only those are the reprobate; it is because of them that you do not go anywhere. Where Draghi and his experts, by definition, take us, is finally clear to all citizens. Come and tell us once again, ministers Franceschini, Cingolani, Garavaglia and all the other representatives of the Government and the sub-government, that Italy is the home of culture, that our landscape is a patrimony of humanity, that our villages are an extraordinary resource and our history has no equal. "But do us the pleasure" he would have said Totò. With regard to Article 51, paragraphs 1 and 4 are provisions for the renewal of positions of collaboration already in place at the Ministry of Culture and the authorization to assign others, while paragraph 2 allows to integrate the technical secretariat of the special superintendence for the PNRR with other experts, pursuant to article 7, paragraph 6, of Legislative Decree n. 165 of 2001. I do not dwell on the anomalies of these "calls," because I have deplored them too many times, obviously in the method, because the cover of the organic plant of the Ministry of Culture, equal to at least 10,000 units to date, is now comparable to a black hole. However, it is paragraph 3 of Article 51 that arouses more attention and confusion on my part, because it allocates 2.5 million euros for each year from 2022 to 2026 in favor of Ales SpA, the company in house of the Ministry of Culture that, as I have said on other occasions, far from providing to the administration in all the Directorates General and in the institutes a technical, administrative and accounting support of temporary and exceptional character, as the norm would require, alongside the ministerial staff professionalism with expertise absent in the organic plan, has in fact progressively replaced the employees of the said Ministry. The employees of Ales carry out ordinary tasks; i.e. they provide everything for the tasks of civil servants, but without signing. In this way Ales literally ate the Dicastery and with the consent of the "victim," as a kind of novello Moloch to which the Roman college sacrificed first and firstborn, that is, the best financial resources and the best professionalism, subjecting the latter, from the beginning of their working career, to conditions that have guaranteed a structural subalternity. Suffice it to think of the convention for sixteen units of technical and scientific personnel stipulated in December 2021 by the director of Vittoriano and Palazzo Venezia with Ales, of which the Ministry of Culture has accepted the offer not subject to evaluation of adequacy, but that the Court of Auditors, with resolution of 23 February 2022, admitted in registration also contesting the potential violation of at least three articles of the Constitution, in particular of article 97, paragraph 4, which subordinates access to public administration to public competition and expressly defining an unacceptable regime of favor the relationship between the Ministry of Franceschini and Ales. The competitions are not or are very slow and the need is skilfully underestimated, while through Ales, of which it owns one hundred percent, the Ministry lends to itself, in fact, workers that cost him far more than the interior, but earn much less than colleagues within the public administration. Reforming the Ministry that was of Spadolini is therefore an inescapable necessity and the most urgent reform consists in freeing it from the pseudo reformer, Mr Franceschini, an inadequate owner who accompanies - the result of his trust choices - an administrative summit completely unfit to represent the Dicastery and carry out his mandate. For about a year inappropriately renamed Ministry of Culture, with the tiny C that is revealing, it is not only more and more unable and disinterested to realize that civil function that Article 9 of the Constitution entrusts and recognizes to the public cultural heritage, but it now acts of practice at the limit of the licit, not without being pleased to take over sometimes in the actual illegality. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to make a very brief statement on the proposal which seems to me to be more appropriate and reasonable among the various ways out. It is not mine, you mean, colleagues, but it has already been officially presented in the journal of the Institute for Documentation and Legislative Studies in 2021. This is the idea of creating a national agency for the valorisation of cultural heritage, that is, a single technically specialised entity that, with a coordinated and strategic approach, can focus objectives, tools and actions to ensure to the public, through the adoption of models and methods suitable to manage and indirectly exploit material and intangible state cultural assets in an efficient and sustainable way, a supply of quality services that produce income. There is nothing wrong with this; indeed, the self-financing capacity of state institutions must certainly be strengthened, but keeping costs low and turning on the lighthouse of the civil mission that the Constitution assigns to the heritage. Enough with dwarves and dancers: it is time to restore dignity to the Ministry of Culture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u11	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u12	Mr President, what is happening in this House today is yet another proof that this Parliament is becoming an appendage of itself. We have just heard the rapporteur, Mrs Rivolta, tell her that there has been no chance of working in the Budget Committee and that we have arrived in this House without having given the rapporteur a mandate. This means that we have not been able to do anything in the Commission; we have had 48 hours to examine this measure and, despite the fact that only 110 amendments were tabled, including 30 of this heterogeneous majority, we have rejected any proposed amendments and in fact we are discussing a measure in the text approved by the House of Deputies. Mr President, it would have been nice to have been able to say that this decree-law did not need to be amended, but the truth is that we are faced with a measure that gives a bland answer to the problems of Italians. So let us examine very quickly what the measure under consideration has received with a lofty name, a bit like all the other measures that have taken place in the last two years. The decree-law on aid suggests that it should deal with problems and that it might solve some problems for the Italians. Surely we have solved the problem of Minister Franceschini, who is always very present in the decree-laws that are approved, in order to maintain his staff of collaborators, to which the contract is extended; we have also helped the navigators, despite their symbol of the failure of the income of citizenship, that they are also seen to extend contract and salary. We have nothing against the navigators, who are victims of a system that has not worked and which we have obviously always asked to cancel. This measure also gives aid (and aid) to INPS: 40 million for purchases of goods and services; we even give ourselves the honour of giving Como a million euro for urgent road operations. In a decree-law that should address the theme of expensive bills, expensive materials, dear energy, we give a million euros in fact to pave a road in the province of Como. This and many other electoral tips are contained in the decree-law in question and in the others that have succeeded in recent years. In short, we don't deny a tip to anyone, but someone has to explain to us what the collaborators of Franceschini, the navigators, the purchase of stationery for the INPS, the interventions on roads and environment with everything that instead had to contain the measure in question. Imagine if this majority, who is thinking only of their own survival, is able to really help the Italian people. This, rather than decreeing aid, was to be called a blackmail decree, by political forces of a majority that today will lose important pieces. Someone's probably already in the election campaign, and we're happy about that. We're happy about that. We too look forward to the vote, instead of attending this merciless theater of those who yesterday voted for the House's trust and today, instead, will deny it in this Senate Chamber. This is not the moment of the scenes and sad performances of sad figures. However, from this Government and from the coalition that supports it, we could not expect anything different: a mixture, a coacervo of political forces too different from each other to be together was clearly doomed to fail; a downward compromise that we have always denounced. While outside this Chamber there is a country that is running out of steam, a country in difficulty trying to get out of this economic crisis of inflation, dear energy, dear bill, dear fuel, this Government and this majority are fighting, putting up vetoes, discussing the income of citizenship and cannabis, forgetting that this country is in canvas and that it is only using its arms to raise itself. You haven't been able to agree with each other either. You are a Brancaleone army, bound only to power and to draw to life. You have used the nobility of the emergency and national solidarity to make interests of power yours alone. You have left this country to yourself in a guilty and instrumental way. You are responsible, before the Italians, for not being able to be a ruling class at the moment when the country needed authoritative leadership. You turned the aid into begging. You've made the Italians of the police. That's what you'll reckon with the country soon, because you're pulling to live. It is, however, a matter of a few months: we have arrived. The vote is very close. We believe that after today's vote we can no longer talk about the Dragon Government. The holding of this majority is shattered under the Diktats of those who thought only of themselves and to gather some political consensus. With this climate of blackmail, begas, internal quarrels, of all against all you are holding the country hostage. You could not produce anything good before; let alone you can do it today, trying to raise some extra vows and thinking that opposing yourself saves your face and saves your dignity. We hope to see, in a few hours' time, a leap of pride on the part of this House, an awareness of an experience that has come to an end and we say so with all due respect for President Draghi, whose authority, unfortunately, has not been sufficient to appease the appetites of some political forces. Today, perhaps, except for other resounding blows of theater, that famous and fateful day has arrived. We send home this government and this failed majority; enough with the Palace games. We trust in the seriousness of Draghi, who excluded a Draghi-a, and we also trust in the role of the Head of State, so that no more rabbits are taken out of the famous cylinder. While, in fact, someone thinks of the reshuffle in order to hold on to the chair, we clearly say that it is time to move on and return to the vote. Let's return to the vote and give the Italians the opportunity to choose a Government: a strong Government, that does the interests of the nation and not the interests of someone in particular. Each of us today can vote according to conscience, but be assured that from Brothers of Italy there will be no support, as we have always done, and that we will never be complicit in a coalition as bad as it is disastrous for our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u14	Mr President, to say that we are at a particular time in this almost epigonal legislature, it seems to me that it is out of the question. Today we are discussing or should discuss a decree-law that, however, finances for 2022, i.e. for the current year, is more than 20 billion; it is 20 billion of aid to people, families and businesses. There are measures that contain support for those who receive a modest income, there are measures that provide for a reduction in the cost of the third quarter of the bills, resulting from expensive energy. It is therefore a set of measures that finds its source in about 6 and a half billion, which is practically the total value of the extraprofit that the companies producing or managing the energy have obtained at this time due to the particular, singular and dramatic story that we are living in Europe and in the world. This story sees a country in war, an illegitimately invaded country, and sees all the drama of what happened by a non-democracy, a democratization that imposes itself with force and violence against a free people. Well, what do we expect? There are also interventions on the 110% superbonus, but they do not solve the problem, because the problem of the transfer of credit remains, especially for those who have applied the discount in invoice; it does not come out and there is the risk of the bankruptcy of many companies. It is also clear that this developmentist measure will encounter or is encountering difficulties, especially with regard to the wider audience of the condominiums, whose interventions should be completed by December 2023, with problems certainly not trivial, assuming that it succeeds. Nobody doubts that this was an effective measure, but it is certainly an improvementable measure; and no one questions the need to avoid fraud. All right, let's go to the punctum dolens. He said Prezzolini, I believe, or Flaiano that nothing in Italy is more definitive than the provisional. And the ontologically temporary character is typical of bonuses, justified and justifiable in a moment of crisis before the emergency. 110 was born from a measure of development of the country, especially to revive the construction system, which we well know is one of the driving elements of our economy. But there we also discovered the huge amount of fraud, just as we discovered something else. This is said by one who is not personally opposed to support and who indeed wants support for those who lose their jobs, but who also understands that with the income of citizenship, as set out, we have lost that typical culture of Italy in active labour policies. [[Applause]] I don't want to quote Biagi, because I think it's obvious. We have virtually hypostatised the renunciation market, because that was what it was about. It is the bad application of a solidarity measure. I recall the beautiful intervention that Calamandrei made, I believe at the University of Florence, on our Constitution, in which he said that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order that prevent free initiative and above all equality in the conditions of departure of individuals, which is the presupposition of a democratic and liberal state: in a beautiful intervention, which is partly not reflected in what this House sometimes produces. The Dragon Government is political, not technical. It is a government that has had - and has - one of the most authoritative voices of Italy and Europe, recognized in the world, but today we are in this condition (I quote once again Flaiano, who today, evidently, returns to my memory: it will be the day, as Senator Mallegni suggests): the shortest way between two points in Italy is Arabesco. In fact, we have witnessed a 5 Star Movement that defines movement as a semantic obnoxious, because it is a companion [[Applause]] , born by exploiting a populist attitude, imbued with resentment, that today has no vision of what is happening anymore [[Applause]] It is keeping this country and the Italians nailed, who are demanding attention for their economic situation, for the energy crisis and for a world that is dividing before Russia, whose neo-zarist design is once again questioning the balances of the post-Jalta [[Applause]] But where do you think you're going this way? What responsibility do you have for the country? That is all that lies at the heart of today's political debate and debate and will be at the heart of what will happen in the next few hours. I appeal to President Draghi, a man who represents - as I said - Italy at the moment. [[Recalls of the President]] I should like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking you very much for being so kind to me. I believe that we are wasting the opportunity for an orderly conclusion of this parliamentary term, which goes in the direction of helping the Italians in their difficulties and, above all, giving the possibility of a clear foreign policy. Today Draghi is a point of reference in Europe; he is in trouble Macron, there is no Boris Johnson. Which Europe do you want? What Atlantic Alliance do you want? Do you want to strengthen the Putinian design and alliance with Russia? Well, I'm not in! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u15	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u16	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this aid decree is the ninth measure providing for measures to deal with expensive energy and expensive fuel. To date, overall, more than 33 billion are allocated. These, in summary, are the measures introduced by the measure. For companies, tax credits for electricity and gas consumption expenditure in the second quarter are increased; there are additional extraordinary contributions to local authorities to cope with increases in bills: 150 million to municipalities, 30 million to provinces. Against the expensive fuel for the hauliers there is the tax credit of 28 percent of the expenses incurred for the purchase of diesel, but carried out only in the first trimester of 2022. Against the spiral of inflation, there is the recognition of the 200 euro bonus to an audience of 31 million Italians. Then there is the extension to the third trimester of the zeroing of the system charges in the electric bills for all the utilities; the reduction of the system charges in the gas bills; the VAT facilitated to 5% for the consumption of natural gas for civil and industrial uses. Also in the third quarter there is the extension of the social energy bonus to families in economic difficulties and for citizens in serious health conditions: we speak of 5.2 million subjects. For access to this bonus - wanted by the League, which has made it a battle of equity and justice [[Applause]] - the retroactivity has been added with the compensation of the automatism, after that we had denounced how the automatism itself at the beginning was valid only for the perceptors of the income of citizenship, while for the remaining families in economic difficulty, many of which unaware of the right of the benefit and that in these months they have continued to pay very salty bills, ran the obligation to present to the Municipality the unique substitute documentation: an unacceptable discrimination, that we have now removed, for the benefit of millions of families. [[Applause]] Other significant measures of the decree-law are the commissioners for the two floating regasifiers of Piombino and Ravenna, the ulterior simplifications for renewables and energy communities, something on the superbonus and the cession of the credits, 3 billion against the dear materials for the public works; there is also the management of the waste in Rome, with the thermovaluer that we trust is realized as soon as possible [[Applause]] , to remove the shame in which the capital has been pouring in for too many years. Not everything, however, is smooth: with the rewording by the Executive of a parliamentary amendment to the House, the de minimis for the recognition of tax credits for gas and electricity purchases has been incredibly introduced; it is a rule that has left us unhindered for approximation and that has thrown companies into panic. It is as unacceptable as the government, while with one hand it provides the tax credit to give a breath of oxygen to companies, with the other, instead - they tell me to the Department of European policies - it intends to compress, if not even zero, these same benefits, turning its back on the enterprises, moreover, in this period of dear energy, in which Europe has also expanded the links in the matter of state aid. The constraint, therefore, is absolutely to be removed, because the de minimis provides for the maximum amount of aid that can be obtained at EUR 200,000, but on a three-year basis and for all companies belonging to the same group, and the figure of EUR 200,000 is currently absolutely inadequate for the purpose of supporting companies. [[Applause]] The commitment of the MEF, even at the urging of Minister Giorgetti, to carry out the corrective intervention, after the request of the League, is important, but the time to implement it is limited. If the distortion is not removed by July 16, the day after tomorrow, the companies, already heavily affected by the expensive bills, will not be able to compensate for the tax credits accrued in the second quarter, so they would suffer further financial difficulties, not counting then the problem of the credits already used, in contrast to the norm that has occurred. Another absurdity that has happened is that, while the Government has extended for another three months - this on 30 June, therefore until September - the VAT facilitated to 5% for the consumption of natural gas for civil and industrial uses, measures in force since October 2021, here comes to surprise the Agency of revenues, which, in fact, with its own interpretation, wants to put its hands in the pockets of the Italians, asking for the return of part of the facility. [[Applause]] Last July 7, the Agency ruled, going, in our opinion, against a clear principle of Union matrix, that the reduced rate of 5% applies only to the raw material, commodity, but cannot extend to the ancillary services or the fixed quota of the tariff, in fact requiring the sales operators, who are now in total panic, to correct all invoices issued so far since October 2021, charging the retroactive tax to users. Who now tells the Italians that they will have to pay 17% of VAT on more than 50% of the bill? All this, moreover, with retroactive effect from 1 October. On this point it is absolutely necessary for the Director of the Agency to take the matter into his own hands and to revoke the interpretation of his offices. On the front of energy security and relief from Russian gas, the Government and Minister Cingolani are doing so much, but on the front of the dear energy, in spite of geopolitical events, the instability of the markets, the difficulty of supplying gas (in these days we also have the stop of supplying Russian gas through the Nordstream)... Mr President, I cannot move forward. I ask you whether you can take a break and resume my speech later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u18	Mr President, the Draghi Government has beaten every record: 50 trusts in fifteen months. The rifts in this majority to say the least anomalous and unnatural are evident and, I add, irremediable. The procedure of the decree aid to the House was emblematic, but here the problem is that politics has been replaced more and more technocracy and the idea of supporting a government of national unity with all the traditional political forces could only be counterproductive and bankrupt. It seems that the knots come to the comb only now, but in reality the insuffering in the forces of majority is ontological: the one born round cannot die square. On February 17 and 18, 2021, when the Senate and the House voted for the new Dragon Government, there was a parliamentary appeal that preferred not to come to terms with other political forces and refuse the inevitable compromises to which they should have gone and was expelled immediately. [[Applause]] Today, the main political forces claiming to be anti-systems are questioning their role in the Executive, but what perspective was imagined when the idea of joining the new majority was envisaged? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Abbot, you can't pick up on your phone in the Chamber. After four years in the legislature, you still don't know? It says in the Rules of Procedure. Please, Senator Angrisani, continue. Wasn't it already obvious that they would lose their essence and soul within the most heterogeneous coalition in republican history, also betraying those same parliamentarians who had trusted in a new direction? We could not say yes to Draghi then, let alone now, that he is leading our country more and more towards the abyss. Almost a year and a half has passed since the establishment of the Government until now and on the eve of the final vote on the aid decree someone speaks of the hard line of the majority. I am sorry that this was an opportunity to clarify and blacken out its political agenda, especially in terms of welfare and support for the weakest sections of the population, taking the distance from a government that did not have these priorities. Only a few of us had the courage to make a choice of opposing field and immediately take sides with the opposition. Now it's late, trying to patch a tear that can't be sewn up. The problem is that the conditions had to be put well before, because, if we had remained consistent with the policy line, no one would have joined an executive whose President spent his professional life in close correlation with the financial lobby. It is clear that the presence of political forces with diametrically opposed ideals between them would cause the implosion of some part of the cause, but who is the cause of his ill crying himself. Those who firmly believe in certain values such as environmentalism, legality, social justice and the common good cannot and will never agree with certain political choices, such as the incinerator of Rome or the regasifier in the city of Piombino. This does not help citizens and businesses. We continue with the sending of weapons, not to mention the problems that are causing companies and families the blockade of the superbonus. The aid decree should have helped the Italians to face inflation, rising commodity prices, high petrol and other problems, but there is little concrete aid. Today the main political forces have not remained consistent with the policy line and therefore companies will receive change compared to their real needs. We have proposed amendments to the House with our colleagues in Alternative to improve the measure, one of which was intended to lower VAT on foodstuffs, but unfortunately they have been rejected. Those who support this Executive must take responsibility for the entire government action, which is acting much in evil and little in good. This government and the majority that support it resemble much the dragon of the apocalypse with seven heads: one looks simultaneously on one side, on the other and on the other. Thus, for example, if any party insists on the liberalisation of light drugs and on the reform of citizenship, others push in the opposite direction, in a continuous pull and spring, leading to the people distrust and uncertainty. Then there is military support for the war in Ukraine and the reckless increase in the cost of living, which has contributed to the increase of an even greater gap between the social classes. All those who want to build a new political agenda, based on law and work, are called into question and are opposed to the program carried out by Draghi. I do not know who will pull the plug on this Government and what consequence this will cause, but we made this choice at the beginning and we proudly vindicate it, demonstrating that our assessment had been made with awareness and consistency. In conclusion, the real aid to the Italian population is not this measure, but it would be to send this Executive home and finally lay the foundations for the construction of a social state, which takes care of the quality of real life and the real well-being of the citizens, without further disappointing them. It's up to us. Convince them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u19	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u20	Mr President, the government, ladies and gentlemen, today is certainly a day we will remember. In fact, we have worked very hard these months to try to respond to the emergencies of our country. We did it with responsibility. We at Forza Italia have done so with the great responsibility that President Berlusconi has asked us to do. The facts of these last days, however, frankly, leave us quite disappointed. Today we will discuss the aid decree, which certainly serves the country, because it has a whole series of measures that concern for example the bills, the enterprises and, more generally, the measures that the Italians require, and we were faced with the umpteenth fibrillation. Once it is said that it is because of the heat-to-energy generator, one that is for the new points and another that they invent issues that have absolutely nothing to do with probably the real and real issues of the country. [[Applause.]] It is important for us to make it clear that we have on our back the meaning and weight of this responsibility and we would like the other forces to do the same. I do not know what they think they are pursuing those who believe that the best way is to make Parliament and an authoritative government fibrillare, which above all has made us authoritative in Europe and beyond, which has managed to pass the dependence on Russia's gas from 40% to 25%. [[Applause]] and which is clearly positioned in Europe and within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance. Decounting this picture clearly means having different scenarios in mind for our country, at a time like what we are living through a serious international crisis. In these days we have understood that our citizens and our voters do not understand this parliamentary ballet and - worse - they are afraid of it, fearing what can happen. This is the biggest reference to responsibility that I think should be made today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u22	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is a busy day, which will determine the progress of our country's political agenda. As a matter of fact, today we are voting for confidence in a measure that is so long awaited by families and companies, which can already be identified by the name, namely aid, whose aim is to give oxygen to an economy in difficulty and breath to families. It can be defined, to all intents and purposes, as a buffer measure, capable of safeguarding the resilience of the country. This government was born with the need to address the first pandemic emergency, with the task of implementing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The situation was aggravated by the increase in raw materials and the shortage of raw materials, the energy crisis and the conflict in Ukraine. Then the water crisis was added. In short, there has been a succession of crises that put to the test the economic and social estate of the country. Allow me to make a point that, from my point of view, highlights the fragility and questionableness of past political choices, starting precisely from the first emergency, namely the health one. The continuous cuts in health care, the closed number for access to university courses in medicine and the centralization of services have in fact made pandemic management complicated. There is also energy dependence, with the sector in the hands of the foreign markets because of the continued existence of a political part. And why not remember the tap bonus when the water supply is a colabrod? When we take measures, it is right that they are in part tailored to the needs. However, we must have planning, which goes beyond today's vision and looks to the future, because we owe it to future generations. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan has this purpose, that is to give a programming and answers to the problems that, over the years, have led us today to be unprepared to face all the emergencies that have followed in the last two years. The instruments are there to make structural reforms, you just have to have vision and courage. Entering into the substance of the measure, it is characterized by forms of support attributable to the energy sector, with interventions for the containment of prices. We know that without this intervention the increase in bills for families would have reached almost 40%. These increases are sterilized thanks to the solidarity contribution requested from gas operators, which is added to the taxation of extra profits. Electricity tariffs will increase by 0.4 per cent, while gas tariffs will remain unchanged, thanks to the zeroing of the system charges for the third quarter of 2022 for electricity and the reduction to 5% of VAT on gas. Other measures have been introduced to contain the inflation effect (which, I recall, has reached 8%), with a one-off bonus of 200 euros for different subjects, including employees with a gross salary, out of 13 monthly, not exceeding 2,692 euros per month and pensioners with a personal income not exceeding 35,000 euros per year, in addition to the categories of seasonal and domestic workers. There are also measures to support enterprises. Thanks to an amendment of the League, there will be simplifications for electricity and gas utilities for non-energy companies, to facilitate the use of tax credit 2022. [[Applause]] Now it will be the gas and energy supplier himself who will communicate free of charge the data necessary to determine the calculation of the increase of the cost of the energy component and the amount of the deduction due to the company. Another important issue concerns local authorities, alarmed by the increase in costs that would have affected the provision of services. In the improvement of the text has been inserted the possibility to use the leftovers Covid to provide facilities on the Tari, and the possibility to use the resources of the revenues collected from the fines for the cover of the expenses of gas and light utilities (only for the year 2020). Another satisfaction can be expressed for measures to support an important sector such as fisheries, for which 23 million were allocated to extend the tax credit until 31 December for the purchase of fuel. In fact, Article 18 of Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March introduces a tax credit in favour of undertakings operating agricultural and fisheries activities, so it would be appropriate for the Government - and the League asks it, since an agenda has been approved on this matter - to take appropriate action to extend tax credit to agricultural enterprises until the end of 2022. I remember that farms, in addition to expensive energy, are facing the drought crisis, which has put crops at risk. [[Applause]] I want to thank my colleagues in the House, who have worked on this decree-law trying to improve it, and I believe that it is important at this moment to give all the answers that citizens expect with the seriousness that has always distinguished the League. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u23	Senator Arrigoni, if you wish, you can resume your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity. I'll try again. I said that, on the front of energy security and relief from Russian gas, the Government and Minister Cingolani are doing so much, but on the front of the dear energy, in the face of geopolitical events, the instability of the markets, and the difficulty of supplying gas (in these days we also have the stop of supplying Russian gas through the North Stream), and the abnormity and the unpredictability of gas price levels, the situation is worrying and I fear that for autumn it will become dramatic. The industry can't stand it anymore and above all it has no certainty. Now the unknowns on the supplyings multiply. For a few days, some sellers have already informed their customers that, given the price levels of electricity, from 1 January 2023 they will terminate the supply contracts. Added to this is the growing difficulty of large companies in defining gas supply contracts for the next thermal year, since the main operators, having difficulty finding it on the wholesale markets, do not undertake to guarantee the contractual delivery of the gas. On the basis of this, some business associations - I think of Assakarta - have launched the alarm for the imminent closure of production facilities: a drama for the economy and for employment. I shall conclude by saying that we need much more for our energy. Premier Draghi announced by the end of the month a new intervention with several billions. Well, the League is asking for it to be powerful. [[Applause]] , financed also through a budgetary deviation, also because it will have to counter the price levels of gas and electricity continuously rising (in these days are nine times those of the pre-Covid years). Today the single national price of electricity (PUN) is 446 euros per megawattora and 180 that of gas. We are practically at double levels compared to the average prices of the first half of 2022; the quadruple compared to the average of 2021. Therefore, if we do not intervene decisively, we will have unsustainable costs for families and businesses, even in the protected sector, affecting the maintenance of the system. The League, as indicated in the motion that will be discussed next Thursday, calls for the following measures to be extended and strengthened throughout the third quarter: tax credits for energy purchases by companies, obviously without the de minimis regime [[Applause]] ; the cut in excise duties on fuels (remember that ends on 2 August); the zeroing of excise duties and the cut in VAT on gas for motor vehicles, which has alarming prices, which put at risk the existence of a supply chain; the tax credit for the purchase of diesel and petrol for fishing, agriculture and road haulage; we also ask that new contributions be made for the municipalities which are in short supply and that at last 5% VAT be provided for indirect gas. Premier Draghi is right to insist in Europe on the roof at the price of gas; however, if he ever succeeds in obtaining it from Europe, it will be months longer and in the meantime we increase national gas production without delay to reduce our energy dependence, including by amending the Plan for the sustainable energy transition of the suitable areas (Pitesai). [[Applause]] Finally, it is true that the superbonus is expensive. It was inevitable that it would end this way: too ambitious and not sustainable, but today there are companies, technicians and families that have started work and are stalled. [[Applause]] They've been in debt, mortgaged property, and they're failing. I turn to Prime Minister Draghi and Minister Franco: to give legal certainty, we must give them a way out too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u25	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u26	Mr President, I would have liked to talk about the aid decree, which came to the examination of the 11th The Commission has been fired in five minutes on Tuesday, but we have not been given the opportunity to discuss it or to analyse the amendments. I would have liked to talk about the exodus of trade, abandoned by this Government, of the workers of the agricultural world, of the precarious who must beg a contract, of the fishermen (who greet) who at this moment are manifesting against the dear diesel oil, which you mitigate, but do not shoot down. I would have liked to talk about taxi drivers, hoteliers and restaurateurs, who are in the square right now demonstrating for their rights, to keep their families, forgotten by you. [[Applause]] I would have liked to talk about the crisis in Ukraine, because you talk about peace, but nobody applies for diplomacy, to find a diplomatic solution: we send weapons and money for weapons, while people die and Italians suffer the economic crisis because of this war. I wanted to talk about these things, but I have to talk about one of the senators' virtues: courage. You are all pretending not to understand what is happening: a political force that has been in the government for four years now speaks to us of minimum wage, but the provision on minimum wage has been incardinated in 11a. Commission just four years ago, so it is you who do not approve it! Even the bill on caregivers was you who didn't approve it! Today, however, we read in the newspapers that the senators of that political force do not participate in the vote. Senators must be courageous and take part in the vote: yes or no to trusting the Dragon Government, yes or no. Otherwise it's running away and it's the cowards who do it. We are offending the memory of the senators of ancient Rome, always in their place. Since there is the Rules of the Senate, we also change our name, because you are not worthy of the senators of ancient Rome, that you are offending with this theater, as you are offending the Italian people: yes or no, inside or outside; instead, we see and do not see, today yes and tomorrow no, we see what will happen. The Italian people cannot wait, because they are suffering. Yesterday with Senator Paragon we talked to the taxi drivers, who were crying, because they see their future uncertain, not safe for their families, while they simply want to work. You are playing on the workers, on the people who really suffer, on the disabled, on all those realities that you want to defend by voice, but that you are not actually defending. Talk about the fact that citizens do not vote and abstentionism: perhaps it happens because they no longer feel represented. You invented that baitage to allow some parties to collect signatures, while others will have to collect them. We care little: we will collect them, because we will be present in the squares to tell what happened. The minimum wage measure is being examined by the 11th Commission for four years; the draft caregivers law is being examined by the Commission. Tell the truth: some measures have not yet been approved because they had to bear the signature of this or that other senator, before this or that other party. Let's tell the truth: Palace games, those games that we want to shoot down, that someone said they would shoot down and instead, in addition to the tuna box he took the breadcrumbs and also the steak, while there are people really that, with 4 euros per hour, can not have that steak. I'm sorry if I make it simple, but I come from the people, I'm one of the people and I've suffered for being unemployed like so many. So, I want to talk to the people. I'm not talking to you, but I'm talking to the people. We will win, people, because you will go home! We are not afraid to go to the vote! Get down and let's go to the vote! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u27	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, colleagues from the beginning of the parliamentary term have established the practice of defining measures with a name as well as a technical designation. Often, in the past, the pompous name is not matched by an equally important content. In my opinion, however, this is not the case. Defining this as an aid decree is entirely relevant, because it contains measures of 14 billion: measures in favour of our production system, in favour of our population and in favour of all categories in difficulty. It is no coincidence that, as a first reference to content, I want to talk about the fund for companies in crisis. For two years there has been talk of crisis: crisis for the Covid-19, crisis for the supply chain, crisis of the caused by the war in Ukraine, crisis caused by the dear of raw materials, crisis caused by the dear oil. It has been two years, practically, that we have been facing one crisis after another. Therefore, taking measures in favour of businesses could be crucial to their survival. [[Applause]] Evidence, however, that it is not a question of rain measures, of one-off aids, aimed only at giving a small temporary limited comfort. To expect an increase in the tax credit for the purchase of structural goods means to look to the future; it means to push the enterprise and investments; it means to push our productive activities to their improvement; it means, precisely, to focus on the future, to the future and not to the present survival. In this respect, measures for drivers also apply. We know that inflation in Europe is not driven by such flourishing economic growth as in the United States, for example, in recent years. Inflation in Europe is determined, almost exclusively, by expensive raw materials, primarily oil and gas, then aggravated by the fact that the exchange rate ratio between the euro and the dollar has gone against us. This is because, paying for raw materials in dollars, it is clear that, if the dollar strengthens against the euro, raw materials cost more, despite a fall in the nominal price. I would like to make this observation because many people are surprised that, with oil at 100 dollars per barrel, fuels are still close to two euros. But if, when it was 110, the exchange rate was 1 to 10 and now it's 100, but the exchange rate is 1, it's obvious that the price is the same; it's the exact same price we paid before. Therefore, to implement measures in favour of road hauliers, which in Italy are fundamental [[Applause]] for our production system, as practically all transport takes place on rubber, means supporting not only that production category, but also all Italians, because in this way we help to reduce the final cost for consumers. It has already been said about the 200 euro bonus, which is not high, of course, but it is a help. It has already been said of the extension granted to those who are doing the work for the superbonus, for the bonus 110 percent. On this point, however, I would like to dwell, because, on the occasion of my explanation of vote in this House on the conversion of the decree-law bills, I had complained that I could not intervene in the improvement of that provision, highlighting the need to derogate also from Article 136 of the Single Construction Act, in addition to the derogation contained in that decree from Article 142. The derogation from Article 136 is also contained in this measure and this is a personal satisfaction for me. It is in fact a useful measure for the whole of the national territory, but indispensable for the Commons earthquakeed, which are very often found to fall within the limits of Article 136 and not in those of Article 142. Therefore, in addition to intervening with economic support, the Government also intervenes in this measure with measures in favour of what has already been done, to simplify procedures, to eliminate problems, to give opportunities to those in a situation of difficulty. In this respect, the measure in favour of the municipalities also applies. As a former mayor I am obviously very sensitive to everything that is in favour of the municipalities, both because I believe that the mayors, especially of the small municipalities, are in trenches, and therefore must give concrete and immediate answers citizens [[Applause]] , both because already before all these emergencies it was difficult to give these answers. Now that public lighting prices have quadrupled; now that heating prices have increased (the municipalities obviously have many public buildings to heat); now that the revenues for these municipalities have decreased, it is clear that taking these measures means allowing these administrators to continue with their voluntary activity. Being mayor in a small municipality I guarantee you that it is volunteering in its utmost essence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u29	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u30	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary Sartore, today in this Chamber a vengeance is consumed, which is not the vengeance of the Count of Montecristo, but the vengeance of the Earl of Circolobottista, of the one who says no to trust, but does not withdraw a rag of Minister, Undersecretary or that plethora of consultants. He stays with his feet anchored to his armchairs. This is the bizarre situation: they say no to this aid decree. I fear and think that President Conte has not yet digested his defen extraction of January 2021, which was not caused by a conspiracy of palace, but was simply the scarcity or the end of the thrust of that government. That's why Count got revenge today. Today the Movimento 5 Stars will say no to a decree-law of 23 billion. I want to list, for those who listen to us, what they are saying no to today. It says no to 31 million Italians who will have 200 euros; it says no to the cancelled charges for domestic users; it says no to VAT on gas at 5%; it says no to the storage of winter and autumn, where, thanks also to the TAP - on which the Movimento 5 Stars was against - it will reach the 20% percentage of gas needs in Italy (even in that case they had said no to the TAP). It will say no to the reduction in fuel prices; it will say no to all those precarious employment contracts, for some of which there is a one-off EUR 500. Madam President, we will not say that today the Movimento 5 Stars is doing Putin a great courtesy; I do not allow myself to say that. But an analysis of reality is inevitable: in a destabilized Europe, it is certain that Italy contributes to its destabilisation. We cannot hide behind a finger: it is Putin's plan to destabilize and, therefore, to support a lack of balance in Europe. I want to say very frankly to the friends of the 5 Stars that it is time to make it clear, not with the country, but above all within your movement, because this crisis of identity you cannot make the country pay. We would agree, before this Vietnam of the wide camp, inevitably to ask for the early elections. But the reasons why we have our confidence in this Government have not failed compared to January 2021, indeed they have become worse: besides the pandemic there is a deep international crisis. And what do the 5 Stars do? They withdraw their trust in this Government, paradoxically keeping Ministers. We say this very clearly: President Conte spoke yesterday in his speech about Rome, about the Capital of Italy. I invite him to go not only to the outskirts, but also here to the historic center of the Capital. Take a look at what's happening, see the garbage. He said he was against the heat-to-energy plant and asked, a bit like the kindergarten children Mariuccia: why the extraordinary powers to Gualtieri yes and to the Raggi not? It is evident why not to the Rays, before the schizophrenia of the Rays government of the Capital of Italy, when he said no to the Olympics. Do you remember? He said no to those Olympics. [[Applause]] He probably listened to the suggestion of Di Battista's mechanic. But then he changed his mind - maybe he went by the cartomante of Piazza Navona - he changed his position diametrically and said yes to the Olympics. In the five years of the Raggi government - I remind President Conte - there is no rag of project for the Capital, there is no rag of infrastructure, there has been no vision not only of the future, but also of the ordinary management of the Capital. Suffice it to see the democratically expressed results of the Roman citizens a year ago. Madam President, we in the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group, President-UDC, want to reassure the Italians that we are turning back to the prerogatives of the President of the Republic: in case there is no more a majority, the early elections are also good. As far as we are concerned, we do not fear them, but this parliamentary group, as always and always, will put its particular interests ahead of the interests of the country. Let us reassure the Italians: in case this majority and this Government could not be completed, the centre-right will think about it as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u31	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u32	Mr President, if anyone were to ask me what the aid decree is for me, I would say that it is the standard act for which the Dragon Government was born and for which the majority supported it. This is a measure that contains a large sum of about 20 billion in favour of Italian companies, in favour of Italian families and local authorities. It is practically a measure that supports Italians and Italians in the light of the difficult moment that we are living. The measures were listed first in detail: the bonus of 200 euros; the 7 billion to contain the expensive electricity and gas bills in the third quarter of this year; the 23 million euros for the dear diesel oil; the liquidity to companies. In short, it is a measure that deserves our support, a measure that makes me scream, even if it is underneath: nothing but free cane and easy citizenship! [[Applause]] It is a measure that Italy needs. All this happens in a difficult context, which still sees Italy in the grip of the pandemic for economic, health and social problems; a pandemic that seems not to want to abandon us and that is still threatening our country in recent weeks. Then the war broke out at the gates of Europe; we have an inflation that exceeds 8.5%; there are the expensive bills, the gas cut by Russia, the loss of the purchasing power of salaries and pensions, the debitory records knocking on the doors of the Italians. There will be €26 billion debitory folders; €2.6 billion has already been notified and expects a total of €13 billion to be notified by the end of the year. I would like to say a few words: what does Italy need in this regard? It needs another renewed, convinced fiscal peace, and for this reason the League and Matthew Salvini fight [[Applause]] : a fiscal peace that aims to protect not criminals and evaders, but those people who unfortunately have found themselves in difficulty and have not been able to honour their debts to the Erario; people who are not to be abandoned or massacred, but supported because it is necessary - even more at a time like this - to give them a new opportunity. Then we have the high prices of raw materials, which also puts construction in difficulty; we have the high prices of food, and, as if it were not enough, drought has been added. In this context, in which all of us have been called to responsibility, in which the League has renewed - until last night - a behavior based on responsibility and loyalty provided that it is aid to Italy, provided that the nation is supported - I say it not because I allow myself to judge in the house of others, but it is right that Italians say it - what does the Movimento 5 Stars do? Run away in the face of responsibility. Run in front of an important act of about 20 billion in favor of the Italians. [[Applause.]] Last night we had a nightmare, like me many Italians, an absurd nightmare: a country, ours, the Bel Paese was nailed for hours and hours to wait for the outcome of the national council, the message of President Conte; a nightmare because it reminded us of that expectation of the famous directs of two years ago of President Conte, when he was to announce in a facebook non-existent decrees in a Facebook way during a pandemic, in full gravity, managed in the worst of ways. But can Italy really continue to live waiting for those moments? And then what gave birth to the consultation lasted a day? An incomprehensible statement, which should be translated out of respect not for us but for the Italians, out of intellectual honesty towards the Italians. After hours and hours of confrontation, President Count says that the Movimento 5 Stars does not vote and, therefore, escape from the responsibilities; that however is ready to support the Government and President Draghi without signing bills of exchange in white, in spite of the most difficult and incomprehensible language of the First Republic. Then, there is even an escape forward: President Conte says that the announced massive decree, full-bodied, that President Draghi proposed by the end of July, makes him happy and makes joyful the entire Movimento 5 Stars and that that same decree is due to the political action of the Movimento 5 Stars. This is completely incomprehensible. Today we are dealing with an important measure, one of the most important of this majority and of the current Government and, just a few minutes from the vote, we do not know what the political force that represents the largest number of Members in this House and also in the House of Members really wants to do. [[Applause]] The moment of responsibility is not over: it is in full. Honesty, and not that which you called with great malice, but intellectual honesty towards the Italians who have given you confidence, is in the fullness of his moment. We do not expect to convince you or judge you - that is what Italians and Italians will do - but we demand to free Italy, which can no longer be hostage to a bluff, because the Movimento 5 Stars has turned out to be a real bluff. [[Applause]] Italy has to run. Italy must return to dream and this is done in two ways: either with an authoritative and solid Government or giving the word back to the Italians. No more threats. Enough with the palace games that look at your selfish interests and not at the general interests of the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u33	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u34	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the more I listen, the more I feel like I am experiencing a schizophrenic situation. If we could look up a little bit from our navel and look around, we would see how these polemics, or fibrillations - if you prefer to call them that - are really incompatible - not because I say so - with the time we are living. [[Applause]] We are hanging, as if it were speaking Zarathustra, from the decision of our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. Moreover, I would remind my colleagues of the League that, in order not to be less, Salvini declared just yesterday that from now on the League will vote only the measures useful to Italy and the Italians. But I ask: have we adopted any unnecessary measures so far? I don't really understand. [[Applause]] In addition, being in the government is not like going to the restaurant, where you take a menu and decide what to take and what not, if the appetizer or ice cream. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the responsibility of being in the government that can help the country. Action more Europe was against the Government Count one and the Government Count two and strongly supports the Government Draghi, which has brought Italy back to be an authoritative protagonist at European level and beyond. And I'm sorry if it's too little. It is little for those who believe that everything revolves around the large ring joint. That is not the case, because the decisions taken in Europe have a direct effect on Italian families and citizens. [[Applause]] I do not even understand why we are talking about foreign policy when we are talking about Europe, because it is now internal politics, for example the market and how it is regulated. Of course, how everything can be improved; indeed - in my opinion - we must have the courage, precisely in view of these challenges, not only to invoke the Europe that is not there, but also to try to give us the Europe that we would like and that would be useful. There is no point in calling for a Europe of health, an energy Europe or a social Europe. Sorry, everyone has their own nightmares and desires, but - given the current treaties - it seems to me that the European Commission has given more than a council signals of representation and important decisions. So, someone said they're refusing. What did someone say before me? Oh, yeah, he talked about free drugs. What are you talking about? We are talking about a self-cultivation measure for four plants. A colleague has rightly said that he cultivates it, smokes it and thus takes away the profits of the mafias. That's exactly it. Of course there is also the whole problem of the legalization of immigrants. We all cried about Ukraine, someone cried about Afghanistan. We quickly forgot them. Tens of thousands are coming to our country now, of course, while - as you know - Confindustria and Confartigianato have explicitly said that they are missing and need workers, proposing to take them with a private plane, I don't know where. Sorry, but we have them in the house. I think the more we legalize them, the more we increase our security. Having said all this, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the measure we are examining is in the right direction. Therefore, please take on your responsibilities each of you, because the Government - you have presided over two - is not about to get off the wagon, but is about to assume responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u35	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u36	Mr President, I did not actually intend to speak in general debate, because I thought I could do so in the debate on the vote of confidence that all the newspapers today announce as certain. However, it is enough to read the agencies, or to listen to what is happening outside this Chamber, to understand that there is an attempt, which we can call desperate, to avoid the vote of confidence because the Movimento 5 Stars said that it would not give confidence to the Government, of which it is the main representative. And then I run to the shelter and I speak now, even if only for six minutes. I understand very well the correct intransigence - now we call it that - of President Draghi who said no to Draghi- bis, putting in ambasce those who would like to pull the rope, without breaking it. They'd like to pull the string, have some protagonism, but go ahead and sit in the chair. That's the figure. So what's the attempt? It's to put the dust under the carpet. How do you do that? They say not to take a vow of trust. Finally, after an incredible number of votes of confidence, this time that serves to clarify, the Government is desperately trying to have the amendments voted to hide under the carpet the dust raised by the Movimento 5 Stars which claims that the Government should fall. [[Applause]] I could say that we had said that and that from the beginning we had argued that this Government is an iattura for Italy. No, you don't. I say - and I am referring to the friends of the centre-right - that I have always respected their choice, different from ours, to be in the government, but I am glad that they have now considered the fact that, with this Government and under current conditions, we cannot continue. While there are expensive bills, war, inflation and everything we know, Draghi cannot spend his days agreeing not only the center-right with the center-left, but also Letta con Renzi, Conte con Di Maio e Conte con stesso. Poor Dragons must do that too. [[Applause]] We therefore feel that we should appeal to the President of the Republic - who is among the very few who have not voted for him - to whom - he knows - he joins me with a personal esteem and also with something that is very similar to friendship. President Mattarella, I know that you, even by a political nature, are trying to find a way to rectify the situation, but please look at what is happening in this House this time and listen to the speeches that are taking place. I do not say in the First Republic, but in any parliament of the world a government with positions of such profound contrast between the parties that compose it, as it is happening here, would not stand. Mr President of the Republic, instead of attempting an impossible patchwork, do what the Constitution allows you to do in this situation: put your hand on your conscience and give the voice back to the Italians, so as to have a compact, cohesive government with a serious programme and not the ridiculous opposition that makes us and the Italians ashamed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Senate, I would like to express my condolences for the death of Eugenio Scalfari, one of the greatest journalists of the twentieth century, who founded the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" and the weekly "L'Espresso" as well as being an important representative of Italian politics in the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like to give him a minute of silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u39	Mr President, I join, on my own behalf and on behalf of the whole Democratic Party, the memory of Eugenio Scalfari, a distinguished journalist, but also a great man of culture and a passion for politics. Few journalists like him in Italy have been able to draw paths, build editorial proposals and also have such a great passion for the country, in a way not only genuine, but refined, not poor and not taken for granted, as unfortunately we often see today. We remember it with emotion and affection. The decree-law that we are about to vote on today contains urgent measures on national energy policies, on business productivity, on the attraction of investment, on social policies and on the crisis generated by the war in Ukraine. The text that came to the Senate, after the House of Deputies had discussed it and voted on it, has undergone numerous changes and additions, which have enriched and improved it compared to the text approved by the Council of Ministers on 17 May. Who sits in the parliamentary classrooms, who has the responsibility to define the political direction of the country, who assumes the burden of supporting the national government cannot fail to perceive and feel strong the gravitas of the moment, to use the words spoken yesterday by the national secretary of the Democratic Party Enrico Letta. Having placed on its shoulders the burden of accompanying the country in this very difficult international situation, after the dramatic phase - which has not yet been completed - of the pandemic by Covid-19, needs to be able to read needs, to define possible answers, to discern the choices to be made in the awareness of having scarce resources by definition. The magic wand narratives, where everything you want can be realized, have been set for a while. It is time instead of fatigue and responsibility, confrontation and renunciation. For every political force it is not the time of the demands, but that of the responsibility, and it is with this responsibility that the Government Draghi, supported by very different political forces, has made courageous choices, putting in field total resources for about 20 billion euros, to give answers to families and enterprises. Important resources aimed at combating rising inflation and the very heavy dear energy; measures that have the inexorable and shared goal of safeguarding the country's hold. The short name of the measure in question, decree-laws aid, summarizes and describes exactly the purposes and contents of the measure. In the field of energy, the decree-law in question intervenes on the containment of prices for final consumers. The effects of price increases on the electricity sector for the third quarter of 2022 are reduced. As regards fiscal and financial policies, the measure to counter also increases in the price of methane gas on estimated or actual consumption in October, November and December 2021 is extended. The tax credit of 20% of the expenditure incurred for the purchase of fuel for fishing enterprises is also extended to the second quarter of 2022. Some tax credits granted to energy companies are also increased. In terms of work, the aid decree provides for the payment of a one-off allowance of EUR 200 for pensioners, employees and self-employed persons (we are talking about a crowd of more than 25 million people). Local authorities also receive concrete aid from this measure. There are 170 million additional for 2022 in order to ensure the continuity of the services provided in relation to the increased expenditure on electricity and gas users resulting from the energy crisis. For municipalities with more than 500,000 inhabitants, a €665 million fund is established to strengthen the interventions of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. To these significant interventions, which bring to 35 billion the resources allocated by the government in recent months to cope with the emergencies that we live from the war in Ukraine, is added the political action taken to start a new social agenda. The Draghi government has announced that it wants to put at the center of the action of the next months and the next budget law measures to counter the precarious work, to favor the minimum wage, to counter a phenomenon that in Italy affects 4.3 million workers who work with less than 9 euros per hour. The Government also intends to operate on the reduction of taxes on labour, on the tax wedge; there is therefore the possibility of a concrete turning point that brings to the center of the political action of the coming months the significant issues on which many political forces have brought their action in the past months and also in these weeks. We note, however, that there are political forces that, with their choices, decide to profoundly change the political scenario we are experiencing. We support this decree-law and this Government with conviction and responsibility. We know that being in the government, like being in any city council, cannot mean uncertainty and desires from a la carte menu, as Mrs Bonino reminded us just now. Families today are frightened by the erosion of wages due to high energy, rising inflation as never before seen in the last thirty years. There are demands from companies that need answers that must come in the coming weeks, with the next budget law. I cannot stop to think that those who are following today's debate or the political chronicle of these hours are shocked by what they are recording, while perhaps today they have received a particularly heavy gas and electricity bill or while they are filling up petrol at 2 euros per litre. In the face of this situation, I believe that each of us, each of us, each political force, should question ourselves and place ourselves on a matter of responsibility. If we also put a question of responsibility, we do not do it to put someone with our backs on the wall, but because we are aware that outside this building today there is a condition of great difficulty that, as many analysts have already made clear, will only worsen in the coming weeks and autumn, for the reasons that we well know. This government was born to give answers and in the decree-law aid there are certainly some significant ones. The political action in the coming months will lead to further significant responses and the social agenda that has been launched this week by President Draghi will bring more. There are answers at hand, but if there are political conditions for continuing this action. For our part, there is not only all the responsibility, but also the political will to achieve these objectives. The Democratic Party is there and President Draghi can count on our support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, last night I happened to see on my bedside table a book of aphorisms by Ennio Flaiano. This morning I remembered, coming out of the house, a volume titled "Un Martiano a Roma e altri farse" and I imagined that I was the Martian in Rome. I tried to observe with the eyes of an extraterrestrial the events of these hours. I have seen a country shaken by a war, prostrated by the energy crisis and inflation, reduced by more than two years of pandemic, intent in an effort of national unity to save itself and possibly restart. Risking in this situation scenarios of instability due to events within a Movement in political crisis and leadership appeared to me something from another world. I then crossed an eternal smelling city, flooded with garbage, populated with wild boars and panthegans, to arrive here in the Senate and find colleagues of the aforementioned Movement outside the Chamber, metaphorically, willing to everything in order not to vote for the realization of a thermo-valuer that would allow to dispose of waste and produce energy. I have heard the lamentation of many companies, full of stranded debts because of a bonus devised against every law of the market and the basic economy. A lament against which some would like to perpetuate by law the accumulation of virtual credits instead of helping, before anything else, an entire chain to dispose of those already stored. I then noticed, in every corner of the country, announcements of companies looking for staff and aspiring employers that this job does not know who to give it to, because, among other things, it was preferred to disembodi an entire generation with the state allowance. And I have heard that that allowance must not be removed even if the recipient refuses all the employment offers that are proposed to him. I have heard parliamentarians from this Republic, I have heard leaders who have held the highest responsibilities of government in the recent past, say that the vote of confidence must be deserted for fear of a hot autumn. As if it were not precisely today's private sector that put at risk all the instruments that this Government and this majority have to stem the economic and social impact of reducing the purchasing power of households and the productivity of companies: the budget law, the PNRR and the reform process that is the prerequisite. We are talking about essential measures for the keeping of accounts, for the support of workers and companies, for investment and for debt sustainability. At this point, Mr President, I have taken up human form. To tell the truth, I would have liked to have done a further experiment and to look at the local events from the perspective of some foreign entities: from Putin's, for example, that after witnessing the fall of Boris Johnson he sees today waving, I imagine without too much displeasure, the government that in the European Union has kept the most stark bar of firmness compared to Ukrainian events. But we come to us, here, today, struggling with a debate that even with a human gaze, too human, appears decidedly lunar. Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, referring to your leader that the favor of the darkness that has enveloped the decisions of these hours will not prevent the Italians to clearly see the facts and their potential consequences. Today marks the anniversary of the taking of the Bastille and the already Prime Minister Conte, whom we remember during his Governments, in times not far away, passionate of General States, we point out that playing the revolution to cover with shots of rifle the political inconsistency can be very, very dangerous, especially in an international framework such as the current one and with a country in the balance between hopes of economic recovery and the spectre of recession. Colleagues, in front of those in this legislature who have ruled with governments of all shapes, and seeing the elections approaching would like to return to the origins and convince us that politics is a crap, we must proudly reaffirm that politics is a resource. That, at such an exceptional time, represents the only opportunity to confront the war, the crisis and the consequences of the pandemic, allowing the Italians to hope for the future. Some things then we have to tell ourselves, knowing that, in a framework of national unity, it is sometimes up to everyone to swallow something unwelcome. We must tell us that the Executive of Mario Draghi, with all the limits of his formula, on the pandemic has guaranteed an efficient organization after inheriting a disaster; he has completed with General Son the vaccination campaign; he has reopened the country. On the war he reaffirmed for Italy a prominent role in the Euro-Atlantic concert. On inflation he laid the foundations - hoping that today will not demolish them - so that, between cutting the tax wedge and instruments such as the minimum wage, autumn may be a little less hot (and I am not referring to the gas shortage). In this context, those who do not consider politics to be a resource favour the only biased logic even to the detriment of their potential alliances. Which as an opponent may not even displease us, however it is disappointing that in the face of situations of dissent the first thought is not to run to govern credibly in a different way but to assume destructive positions in order to glean some votes. Because destructive positions, in fact, destroy everything. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the time for responsibility. We also allow ourselves to appeal to rationality, which certainly belongs to so many exponents of a movement, perhaps a brain, not only to secure a majority for this Executive in numbers, but to correspond to the nature of an institutional government. This government must go on for us. Vote is not a drama, but at the electoral deadline we have arrived substantially and, if we arrive by sending the country running in the air, we risk that the vote is not the time when the citizens can attribute their representation and that representation to govern, but the assumption that the politics is recommissioned and we must again resort to some reserve of the Republic. Those who today destroy know that they assume the responsibility of destroying democratic physiology for the near future; and doing so in the name of an alleged "purity" is even surreal. We, those of the old politics, have loyally supported the Dragon Government without the so-called armchairs, although we have all the numbers to claim them. At certain times, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that denied representation did not particularly reward us. But politics is worthy of this name if it can live with an ethic of conviction with an ethic of responsibility. As far as beliefs are concerned, I would appeal ideally to President Draghi to tell him clearly: so far, in particular in these days, you have shown what your convictions are, including how you behave in politics and within the institutions. We shared his beliefs. But this, Mr Draghi, is the time of responsibility. For everyone, for you, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u43	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall dwell on the substance of the aid measure, which allocates more than 19 billion for 2022 at a time of major crisis. I will then leave the statement of vote for political considerations to my Parent Company. With a three-hour, four-hour war, the prospect of growth and post-pandemic recovery has been put in great doubt. There are clear inflationary pressures, confirmed by Istat and confirmed, as far as the American economy is concerned, just yesterday by the consolidated data. There are serious risks to the international supply chain. In essence, there is a situation of very strong uncertainty on the markets, leading to lower growth estimates and upward inflation growth estimates. The European Commission has called on all countries, including Italy, to recalibrate the economic policies that have been implemented in the last two years following the pandemic, directing them more towards price stability and the social protection of the most at risk groups due to inflation. These investments must be directed towards reducing the dependence of European countries, including Italy, on Russia's energy resources. As for Italy, in 2021 the economy went well, the production bounced at +6.6 percent, but in the second half of 2021 the increase in the prices of the factors of production and the necks of the bottle on the side of the offer began to weigh on the industrial activities, adding to a rapid and uncontrolled increase of the prices of the energy that has affected the purchasing power of the families and the weakest bands of our population. The growth forecasts, therefore, are very modest and the economy should return to growth in a more sustained way perhaps next year, thanks to the funds financed by the Recovery and Residence facility of the European Union. Our gross domestic product is expected to grow to 2.6% in 2022, mainly due to a drag generated by the solid growth of 2021. The situation is very worrying and at this moment the adjectives that may concern political action are those just mentioned: responsibility, loyalty and correctness. Responsibility, loyalty and fairness that we at Forza Italia have demonstrated right from the start, even in a position of opposition at the beginning of this legislature, but in this Government Dragons actively and effectively participating in this political majority. President Draghi, do not get tired: the country at this stage and in this context needs its authoritative leadership, which is also proposed as a leader at European level, given the serious crisis of political representation of other countries. The call to loyalty and fairness by Forza Italia is confirmed by all the initiatives that our representatives to the Government and our members in the various Commissions have brought. On the subject of the aid decree, it contains interventions - already mentioned by my colleagues before me - in various areas: I remember, because we are particularly concerned, the aid given to the fisheries sector, a very important sector that is going through a period of crisis that is really heavy and not governable, mainly due to the increase in the cost of fuels. It is basically an omnibus decree which contains urgent measures on energy policies, in support of business productivity and for the attraction of investment, on social policies and there is also a prediction regarding the effects of the war crisis in Ukraine. It has then put its hand on citizenship income: I hope that sooner or later this history of citizenship income will be clarified, because there is an emergency income for those in crisis in the country and there must be no income for those who do not accept job offers. There are entire sectors of seasonal work in the tourism and catering sector which, due to the production peaks of the companies, do not find labour. The policy of foreign flows, Mr. Undersecretary, must also be monitored. There are companies that are waiting for the next harvest season of agriculture: if the permits are not released we will be in a serious harvest crisis, as well as the damage that drought is causing. Then there are the sectors of animal husbandry, tourism and the hotel: all sectors that are going well and would be much better, but unfortunately they cannot find labour. For the increase of energy prices some companies, in my region, have declared the closure because they work with serious losses that they are unable to bear. President Draghi has announced these days, speaking with the social partners, trade unions and employers, that another important measure is expected at the end of July; we are waiting for it, companies are waiting for it, as well as companies, because the situation is really dramatic. Colleagues, looking at this situation from a macroeconomic policy perspective, the picture is already clear: those who are well are getting better and those who are sick are getting worse and worse. This delta is increasingly dangerous and increasingly marked and, if not governed, can lead to truly dangerous system crises, which must be avoided. Forza Italia is loyal, responsible and correct; we expect forces that call to this majority to be equally so. The conversion of this decree-law, which however we must bring home in the day, will be a first response to this situation of serious crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u45	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 50 of 2022, so-called aid decree-law, contains a series of vigorous measures to support families and businesses, our social and economic realities in serious difficulties already due to the disastrous effects of the pandemic and the upheavals it has caused, but further tested by the indirect consequences of the war of aggression in Ukraine, by the dear energy, by the economic upheavals and by the inflationary peaks. The rate of inflation has now reached almost eight percent, values that have not been seen since 1986. Our country is suffering a real shock, from which, with stubbornness and commitment, it is trying to get out. The measure before us today contains urgent measures relating to national energy policies, business productivity, the attraction of investment and social policies. Of course, the decree-law could not and cannot be the panacea of all the evils and all the complex problems that grip our country and that involve in a more or less similar way the other members of the European Union. At the same time, it cannot be denied that the measures taken represent a concrete, albeit partial, response to the demands of businesses, commercial activities, associations and families, with the intended economic, tangible and concrete support. When a storm of epochal dimensions strikes a community whose causes are difficult and complex resolution, both for the heterogeneity of the subjects involved and for the multiplicity of critical issues to be addressed, there is only one certainty: to face together, each for its role, with a sense of responsibility and collaborative attitudes. [[Applause]] We need to be loyal and consistent, not to put each one of our own flags or make their own electoral ads, but simply because we need to work and cooperate together in the interests of the citizens and the country. In my opinion, party interests must not be put before the need to carry out fundamental interventions to combat a national and international emergency. All this is an obligation of the representatives of the citizens and institutions, and at the same time it is a duty to the Italians. Our fellow citizens do not need dancing and obnoxious positions; they do not want polemics or, worse still, political blackmail. On the contrary, they ask for concrete answers to the real and daily problems with which they live and live together every day and with which they face the difficulties that they face in any case with a spirit of sacrifice. Divide now with unilateral attitudes, under the pressure of polls or guided by the vague quest to widen their electoral consents, means not doing the good of Italy [[Applause]] and put at risk the estate of our country. In this particularly difficult historical moment, the priority is Italy. As has been said, we need compactness and availability of all political forces, we cannot abandon a government of national unity born, in fact, from the emergency, without evaluating the very serious and consequent effects that such a decision could entail. This will result in a serious delay in the application and use of PNRR funds and in their delivery, in the formulation of the budget law, with a probable provisional exercise, without considering the weakening of positions and leadership within the framework of the European forum. You cannot work under the heavy and asphyxiating weight of ultimatum: you need clarity and a far-sighted vision that you look to the future for the common good of our country. It is essential to participate in the Government of our country not suffering or compulsory, but responsible and collaborative. We are faced with difficult battles in European contexts, such as the one to get a maximum gas price. The achievement of this objective is, in my opinion, as suggested by the experts, a condition sine qua non to cool inflation and lower the cost of bills. There is no need for populisms that promise unrealizable things, nor exasperated sovereignisms: we simply need a country rebuilt in a pragmatic and perfectly and firmly integrated in the European context and in the Atlantic chessboard, a country that can look with a new spirit, with a renewed enthusiasm and with more certainty to the near future, able to overcome and overcome the contingent difficulties linked to the pandemic before and to the war in Ukraine after. The Italian citizens want all this, it is our moral and political obligation, our institutional duty to lay the foundations and work to achieve it. Let's move forward with confidence and consistency, Together for the future there is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u46	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u47	Mr President, here we are discussing the serious crisis that the nation is experiencing, but out of here they live on their own. There is an old proverb that says: while the doctor is studying, the sick person dies. Never before can this truth be seen at this moment. Outside these buildings, there are families that can no longer pay their bills, who can't provide their children with primary goods. There are all the small and medium-sized enterprises that have built up all their reserves to survive, but they are exhausted by now. Obviously, this crisis has been underestimated, which stems from causes and causes that are not all linked to the conflict in the heart of Europe that this Government feeds by sending weapons, but also by criminal speculations that in bringing our families and our businesses to their knees are enriching someone who acts in the shadows. In the short time available to me, I will concentrate on the subject of my own competence: agriculture and fisheries. Although one of my amendments, tabled to the last financial year, but also to the decrees Ukraine 1 and 2 and support, has been incorporated in Article 20 of the decree-law in question, the measure comes late and is no longer sufficient. Apart from all the difficulties, which I report here, that banks create for operators who go to ask for measure U35, as is called Article 20 in jargon, saying that they do not yet have the directives, that they do not know anything, that they have to ask for, farmers and fishermen are called on July 18 to pay the first instalment of contributions, but they do not have the money and they will not be able to honour these charts. That is why I also tabled an amendment to this measure, in order to call for a moratorium on these small and medium-sized enterprises that are no longer able to survive, if they are not supported by this Government to go through this delicate and very dangerous moment, for them and for the whole national economy. Of course, yet another confidence has been placed, denying, once again, Parliament's legislative prerogative. For my part, I shall continue to table this amendment, apart from the policies we are witnessing in these hours, every useful measure and from this House I declare, once again, all my willingness and all my closeness to the farmers and fishermen in difficulty. I hope that the government can finally direct all the funds to those who have done and continue to make the nation's economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u48	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u49	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote concludes, I hope, not a phase of great awareness and responsibility, but the politically complex process of the so-called aid decree, which is placed in a serious international crisis, with the war, the energy crisis, the climate crisis, the consequent inflation and now, once again, the growing pandemic. For this reason, the measures take place in key sectors for the country (energy, business, work, territorial authorities and reception), with social and economic support for all sectors of the country most in difficulty. In seven months, since the beginning of the year, the Government has allocated more than 33 billion to stand firmly on the side of the country's needs and has done so in an unprecedented way, which responds to the crisis, drawing resources from a strong measure, taxing the extra profit of energy companies, first at 10 and now, with this measure, at 25 percent. He did so in this way, changing the rules in the course of the year, with a strong measure, which is explained only in a moment of serious emergency, and drawing from the folds of the budget the resources deriving from the rebound of GDP, from the growth supported by the PNRR and from the other measures put in place by the government, without any new deviation. Similarly, without any further deviation, the next July decree will be made, which intervenes on the weakest groups, on the tax wedge and on the minimum wage, modifying the collective bargaining and strengthening also the decentralized bargaining. It is not necessary at this stage to break public accounts as long as we grow up, just as it is not necessary to break a majority of national unity, when the country and its most difficult part ask and when the government is doing and is doing well. The aid decree does and does good, and that is why our vote will be a double conviction, on the merits and on the trust of the Dragon Government. Ours will be a yes, although as Italy Viva there are in the decree norms that we would have written differently. I am thinking, for example, of the rule that, in order to protect the historic centers of large cities, it places a close on short rents. It is a rule which, in our opinion, violates the basic rules of property rights. I am also thinking of the superbonus rule, which has proved to be a good intuition, but which has been badly written at the origin, has been changed too much and has lent itself to too many abuses, putting into difficulties businesses and families that have implemented it in good faith. The problem is still there and remains to be solved. In order to protect the legitimate expectation of who started the work, it is necessary to allow further disposals, in view, as we have all voted in the majority, of the gradual absorption of the measure, according to the dates written in the budget law for 2022. We would also have written in a different way the norm on citizenship income. It is good to predict that job offers can also come from private employers - there would be no more - but the real crux of this measure is as it has been written. The gap between support and active policies does not work, because it does not bring the benefits to a successful conclusion and does not allow active policies to work. Reason must be taken seriously. Despite this, we vote yes. We did not insist and we do not even get to the extreme fact of not voting for the government we support, at such a time. We want this government to move forward, because emergencies are very serious. We must make the social agenda, complete the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, cope with drought (as Minister Patuanelli said in this House yesterday) and work on peace and the unblocking of granaries in Ukraine, the roof at gas prices and inflation. It is not the time to escape and parade, putting the country in serious difficulty. It is necessary instead to understand that the moment is critical and that the decree aids gives answers very solid on the dear bills, extending to the whole third trimester of this year important measures, like the bonus social gas and energy, on the tax credits for the companies gasivore and energeticore and on the road haulage and widening the reduction of the VAT for the administration of the methane gas. The measure gives answers to the sectors in difficulty of the Country with the bonus of 200 euros in favor of all workers and pensioners with an ISEE up to 35,000 euros. It also gives answers to the energy transition, simplifying it and pushing it forward quickly. We need to change our energy mix, closing the gas supply, but also moving the country towards the energy that Europe calls clean. We need to make ourselves more independent, so that Italy does not have an unsustainable energy for a long time. The measure gives answers to those who have suffered indirect damage from Russia's wretched attack on Ukraine and the resulting war crisis. Enhance corporate liquidity guarantees: External trade insurance services (SACE), non-refundable resources for small and medium-sized enterprises, tax credits to enhance the foreign business activity of enterprises. The measure also provides funds for the reception of people who are living on their skin death and destruction in their country. Tax responses are given, as much of this Government has been asking for for a long time, with the possibility of compensating claims to the public administration and, as Italy Viva has asked, to install up to 72 installments the folders, for a maximum amount of 120,000 euros. I have chosen to list these very important answers that are given to show that this is a fundamental measure that meets many needs of the citizens and that deserves to be voted with conviction. It can certainly be argued that it is not sufficient to meet all the needs of the country and so it is. The Government, in fact, has already undertaken to adopt a very important decree at the end of July to counter inflation and support the purchasing power of workers and pensioners. Surely you can't say that 20 billion isn't oxygen. We certainly cannot vote no; we cannot vote no, we must vote yes. We have a serious Government, we have a capable and authoritative President-in-Office of the Council, who knows how to lead Italy and Europe through great difficulties and who deserves all our trust. Some people are calling it irresponsible who doesn't support it, but I think it's something even more serious: I think it's bad faith. Not supporting this Government means not supporting Italy, not even in a very delicate geopolitical context. We support the Government and Italy and ask colleagues to continue to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we are at the end of the comics and I hope that this situation, which the Italians have now understood to be carried forward only for the sake of perhaps some of us, but certainly not of the Italian people, has come to an end. I would first of all like to address the parties in the centre-right, but in general to the whole of Parliament and all political forces, so that we finally have the courage to say: the experience of a government that has tried for too long to unite everything and the opposite of everything and the extreme left to those who believe in meritocracy, liberal values and autonomy has ended. What were the results? They are the ones we see in the squares and numbers and we read in objective sources, not in the words of a representative of the opposition. To begin with - and I address the esteemed and co-regional friend and colleague who preceded me, Senator Conzatti - as irresponsible is to continue with this Government, which - we must stress - has seen the public administration's debt to enterprises increased by 12 billion, to quote a number. So the so-called "Govern of the best" was not even able to reduce the impact of the debt that is penalising the entrepreneurial system, because the public agency does not pay. Not only did he not reduce him - and with a banker of Professor Draghi's level we had some hope too, who were and remain in opposition - but he even increased it by 12 billion. What is worse, ladies and gentlemen, is the answers that could be given in a decree-law that, in my opinion, has the arrogance today to call itself a decree aid (after which I will explain why I speak of arrogance). We could use the tax currency, which could be a prompt and immediate response to companies that are not paid by the public administration; it could be a prompt response to companies that are in difficulty because the State, the Regions and the Municipalities do not pay them. Those companies that, thanks to the Draghi Government, have seen an increase of 12 billion the exposure could be granted tax credits in maturity, even five years, but allowing these credits to circulate, which is exactly what you are not allowing the building bonuses. At last - I want to take it in word - the Movimento 5 Stars decides today (it seems) not to participate in the vote, that is not to trust the Government, on a topic like the building bonuses, on which the Government is mocking the Italians. Even in the decree-law under consideration, as colleagues know very well, on the subject of the transfer of tax credits and the tax currency is not being made the interest of the country; they are simply following the things that are said under dictation outside this country, probably from Brussels and the financial companies that have interest in maintaining a certain type of rating for our country, that have interest in that our country does not grow and maybe to that the financial companies of our country, not because they are less good, but because they have a lower rating, cannot compete in the management of savings with those coming from outside our country, maybe Germans and French. In this way, our savings are not managed and used in Italy, but abroad. These are therefore the answers that the Government and Professor Draghi must give not to the Brothers of Italy, who are asking him, but to the Italians, who deserve to listen to them. Do you really believe that Article 14 of the Decree-Law helps solve, for example, the problem of 60,000 Italian companies that are about to fail because of the inconsistent and persevering position of the Government on the subject of superbonus? The Government, in fact, on the one hand, seems to give an opening and say to reopen the circulation of the credits, allowing the banks with Article 14 to make an extra sale to the VAT consignments. It is therefore allowed to the banks (who do not buy more credits, therefore the enterprises are crippled and the citizens are desperate) to free their tax drawer and therefore to start again. That would be the logic that any thinker might have. Instead, this Government, on the one hand, inserts Article 14, but on the other hand, it happens, at the same time, comes out a circular of the Revenue Agency (who knows who inspired) according to which the assignee, that is the entrepreneur who should buy the credit, is responsible for the goodness of the credit itself. You understand very well that, first of all, this is a forecast that does not serve, because upstream there is a visa of conformity of the professionals, therefore the activity of the banks and the insurances that have obviously verified everything; therefore, to pretend that a simple entrepreneur, who does not do the work of the banker, neither the State Controller or the official of the Agency of the income, in buying the credit is also held responsible for what happened upstream, means with one hand to give an opening and with the other to establish a closure, then to make fun of the Italians. Would that be help, ladies and gentlemen? Who says this government really believes that Italians have slices of ham on their eyes? Do you really believe that, 60,000 companies, 500,000 workers and the about 5 million Italians involved in the superbonus have slices on their eyes and believe in your nonsense and your teasing? We can always move forward on what you have the courage to call decree-law aid. There are tax credits that you recognize, but, by chance, last week (and it is not a coincidence, because we of Brothers of Italy do not rely on the case) we questioned the Government to ask how those tax credits should be treated. The government has told us that they are on the same footing as non-refundable state aid, so it means that we will overcome the ceiling, so those companies to which you have recognised and recognised tax credits will have to return them to the state: a further mockery. I could then, Mr President, talk about tax credits in the energy sector. In paragraph 3-b of Article 2 you linked the tax credit to the de minimis, so in fact these companies will not take anything, because with the de minimis they will not have the right to take this money. This is another mockery; I do not think it is an opinion, these are objective data. Starting to conclude, because it seems to me that time is coming to an end, I would also like the Government to give some answers to Italians and maybe even to us (I of cognitive deficiencies will certainly have many). We are waiting to hear from the government, about fuels, why fifteen years ago the cost to the barrel of oil was higher than today, but the fuel cost considerably less. You have to explain to us why today we are teasing Italians even at the petrol pump. This is not the way to run a country. We all have a whisper of dignity, I ask you with my heart: let us send Parliament before the voters, let us give the country a coherent and loyal political majority, that can finally govern and not make fun of this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u51	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u52	Mr President, allow me to join in the mourning for the disappearance of Eugenio Scalfari. Today Italy has lost a figure of extraordinary standing, an absolute protagonist in the history of journalism and politics in our country. Mr President, today we are debating this decree at a very difficult stage for Italy and for Europe, as all our colleagues and colleagues who have spoken have mentioned: the war, which began with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, continues; the energy crisis and inflation are hitting families and businesses hard; social inequalities are widening, because inflation is the most unjust of taxes and energy inflation is even more unfair; our production system is losing competitiveness, starting with companies with higher energy consumption. Mr President, the government has put in place major interventions over the last few months, with support for families and support for businesses, starting with the most fragile households and companies with the highest consumption of gas and electricity. Again, there is an important effort to diversify gas suppliers. As President Draghi said, our dependence on Russian gas has fallen from 40% of the year to 25% of the current year. I also mention the increase in national gas production and the simplification of procedures for the installation of renewables. This decree, the decree aid, which, after reading to the House has touched almost 12 billion euros of interventions, is a decisive part of this strategy. Let us remind you, Mr President, of the measures of the decree: the zeroing of the system charges for electricity, the reduction of the general charges and the VAT of gas for the third quarter of this year; the fund for the expensive materials of public works; the bonus 200 euros, which is coming to 31.5 million employees and self-employed and pensioners (a measure that alone is worth 6.5 billion euros); the refinancing of the social fund rents; the voucher for subscriptions for local public transport; the resources to help the local authorities cope with the expensive bills and the extension of the tax on the extra-profits of energy companies, with which the 200 euro bonus is financed, with a social redistribution measure. Of course, Mr President, it is legitimate to make different assessments of the individual choices of this measure and to highlight the problems that this measure has left open, starting from the release of the sale of credits on building bonuses, which covers more than 5.5 billion credits and tens of thousands of households and businesses. In the last year and a half, every measure of this Government has been a meeting point between political forces that express different visions of the future of this country and that have different ideas on how to address the nodes that have manifested themselves. If this Government has gone ahead and produced results, it is because there has been a systematic and patient work of composition; because every political force of this majority has renounced a piece of its vision and ideas to find, after measure, the necessary meeting points; because there has been a job, which has allowed us to achieve important goals. I am thinking of the presentation and approval of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, of a vaccination campaign that has led more than 90% of Italians to complete the vaccination cycle; of the respect of all the deadlines of the Plan (of the 51 objectives planned for 2021 and of the 45 planned for the first half of this year); I am thinking of the measures for the dear energy with this decree-law reach 33 billion euros, without an extra deficit compared to the planned budget law 2022. And finally, but certainly not in order of importance, there is the confrontation initiated by President Draghi with the trade unions and the employers for a new social pact around the introduction of the minimum wage, as proposed by Minister Orlando, around a structural and important cut in the tax wedge for the benefit of payrolls, around the revival of productivity and the implementation of the national plan for recovery. This social pact - as we in the Democratic Party have been saying for a long time - represents the change of pace needed to deal effectively with the economic and social situation facing us, which is becoming increasingly difficult. Don't vote for the government, President, that would be a serious choice. It is a serious choice and an objective political error, because it calls into question the Commission at such a dramatic stage for Italy and for Europe, interrupting this path. Such a choice would inevitably have political consequences, far beyond the calculations and what we have read in these hours on the media. Mr President, sovereignty belongs to the people, as it is written in the Constitution, and no one, less than ever the Democratic Party, is afraid to address the Italians, to whom the last word is due. However, I believe that if we asked the Italians what they need today, the last thing they would answer us would be "a crisis of government." [[Applause]] Italy, in a dramatic phase like the one we are experiencing, needs a Government in the fullness of its functions and the Democratic Party, Madam President, works for this, for the continuation and relaunch of the activity of this Government, knowing what is the political figure with which this Government was born. It is an Executive, the one led by President Draghi, who started his journey in an exceptional situation, starting from a common assumption of responsibility of the forces of this majority, which were and remain very different from the political point of view and their programmatic profile, who responded positively to an appeal of the President of the Republic and who assumed, all, the responsibility to support, in an exceptional condition, this Government, in the general interest of the country. The Government is based on this assumption of responsibility by all political forces, all of which a year and a half ago made that choice in front of the Italians. [[Applause]] President Draghi made this very clear, with the words he made yesterday. We are at a crucial junction and it is time that every force of this majority made clear before Parliament, so before the country, if the conditions that led us a year and a half ago to start this path and that led us to produce the results that I remember are still there or have failed. It must be said clearly and without inflaming, because it is a duty of transparency that we have in front of the Italians and in front of this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u54	Mr Casellati, Government, fellow senators, today we have to approve the so-called aid decree, which has a financial capacity of about EUR 23 billion. I believe that this is a necessary measure, just as all those who have so far been in this House, we in the majority and this Government have all agreed, all together, precisely because of a great sense of responsibility towards the Italians. It is therefore a measure that does not deviate much from those approved until a few weeks ago against the pandemic or economic support for the consequences of the health crisis that has occurred in our country until some time ago and that still exists today. To this we add the economic crisis that comes from an unexpected and unwanted war. It is a moment of great emergency: hence the need to put in place measures to support families and businesses. We at Forza Italia have moved in this direction and today we believe this Government in line with the genesis of its formation: it is an emergency government, born thanks to the political intuition of President Berlusconi, who has put the interests of Italians ahead of those of his and our political party. [[Applause]] That is why today we continue to see in a moment of emergency and responsibility the main political factor to put at the center, because many of the things that have been done today are also due to the proposals that Forza Italia has made, starting from the vaccination plan, the first proposal that has finally got the country out of the pandemic; or rather, today we live with the pandemic thanks to the full-bodied vaccine plan that we have approved. It therefore seems incomprehensible to us that a majority force today calls for political discontinuity with regard to the emergency that the country is experiencing. This is not discontinuity, but the political schizophrenia of a movement that perhaps - as other colleagues said - has now lost a political vision that perhaps never had. [[Applause]] Politics requires proposals and not protests. That is why we are in this Government, as we decided a year and a half ago: precisely to bring our proposals to a difficult time for the country. We, too, have a number of problems, such as the fact that today this measure is armored, since it has been closed down in a branch of Parliament. We express our criticality with regard to a monocameralism that does not belong to us. We also wanted to bring forward better proposals, but our colleagues in the House of Members have done so. They have made important proposals, for example to help the fisheries sector, which is in difficulty in recent weeks. We have put forward proposals to try to unblock the superbonus, put forward changes to the citizenship income discipline, put forward proposals for the power stations in Brindisi and Civitavecchia or for support to local authorities. We have also made simplifications on procurement; we have also spoken of the South in this decree. It was a very responsible job. We do not fear elections, Forza Italia does not fear them at all. We are available, but we must continue our responsibility towards the Italians and the country, because today a forecast of the duration of this crisis and of this war we do not have it and no one can do it. That is why we need these decrees, today's aid decree and other support measures for families and businesses. We still have a lot to do to help companies with SACE guarantees, which need to be extended again, because we need to help companies in difficulty. We have set up a lost fund of 130 million for companies, small and medium-sized enterprises which are currently in difficulty. We have thought about updating the prices of the expensive material and we still have to intervene on the superbonus, because we have to unlock the situation of the sale of the credits and bring to completion all the yards and all the practices that today in our country are open. [[Applause]] We need to help the categories, professionals and businesses that are in trouble today for the superbonus. As for energy, there is a boost to renewable energy and aid to local authorities. But you're on the ground? [[Applause]] Mayors will soon have to cut public services to citizens and public lighting will be off at night. These are the aid that we must give to Italians today, in this case to local authorities, such as support for fishing, as I said, at a difficult and complicated time for the country. This is the direction: aid and support. Today in this House, however, there are those who will abandon, leave and say no to a measure of aid and support for the Italian people. For this reason we believe that, on the road of responsibility and support, the path is still difficult, because we do not see, precisely, a way out. Yet, with great responsibility, we are still here today to vote on this decree-law, and we are voting on it because we are responsible to the Italian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u55	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u56	Madam President, I asked to speak because I think that the disappearance of Eugenio Scalfari can offer many ideas for reflection today to a Senate engaged in a vote of extreme sensitivity. Scalfari was in fact an extraordinary journalist, an ironic man, educated, but he also had a great political passion. He directed "L'Espresso" and then founded "La Repubblica" (the Republic), a newspaper different from all the others, and made it a very authoritative newspaper, with a success of diffusion that no other newspaper had ever achieved in such a short time. From the beginning he has deployed his newspapers in the field of the center-left, without making them, however, never party newspapers, in fact, often hosting opinions different from his. Colleagues, soliciting other points of view is not only a recognition of the fragility of Italian politics, a fragility that we too today, in this delicate political juncture, are confirming, but also corresponding for Scalfari to its nature, its curiosity and its love for dialectic and intellectual controversy. By political culture Scalfari was a liberal socialist and was also a member of the Italian Socialist Party for a legislature. His political figure was secular, an independent secular left. He was never a communist or a Christian Democrat, parties that did not belong to him, but that he respected, so much as to maintain strong bonds of friendship with many of their leaders. Mr Scalfari was constantly seeking a balance between professional rigour and political passion; a balance which we, too, should endeavour to find in this vote today. He always took responsibility for what he wrote and never hid where he stood. With Scalfari, Italian information has grown and matured. He's trained entire generations of journalists. He taught a new way of making newspapers more attentive to the news, deeper in the analysis, more incisive in the investigations, more spigliato and more combative, even politically, but he was not only a great journalist. Nature gave him many talents, which he certainly did not waste, but used with the tenacity of his Calabria; talents of publisher, director, intellectual, writer and poet: in all these inclinations he knew how to excel. It was never trivial, never irrelevant, never superficial. Scalfari was not a believer, but he wondered about the origin of man, and those who had the fortune to listen to his extraordinary stories of friendship with Pope Francis, their conversations and their phone calls, have intuited the richness of his secular spirituality. Now that he has disappeared, it is a comfort to all of us to remember that he loved very much the life he had, with his books, his colleagues, his friends and the love of Simonetta and Serena. He liked his whole life: he read, wrote, played Armstrong and Piaf, he did it when he was young and he continued to play them even as an old man. Until a few weeks after his death, at the age of ninety-eight, his daughters Enrica and Donata read to him Dante, D'Annunzio and Garcia Lorca. This was Scalfari and with him not only died a special person, but ended an important piece of our country's history and we should reflect on this leap of epoch that we are living and that we are witnessing. He loved young people and young people loved him, because they recognized in him the desire to fight for his country. His most important legacy goes precisely to the younger generations, so that they can take on their shoulders the destiny of an increasingly integrated Italy in Europe. Mr President, I was pleased to be able to remember Eugenio Scalfari on the day of his death, and I think it was important to remember him in a debate in which, for all of us, the memory of the time that has been could be a great lesson. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u57	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u58	Mr President, the conversion work of Decree-Law No 50 of 17 May 2022, the so-called aid decree, which - let us not forget - takes place in a dramatic historical moment, or rather falls at a particularly difficult time of a historically dramatic period, which is even worse. I repeat the inconvenience for the timing of the work imposed by the government and for the de facto monocameralism that I hope can soon be archived as a great constitutional force. I thought my first parliamentary experience had been in a very difficult legislature, the XVI, with the President of the Council Berlusconi: there was the earthquake of L'Aquila, the great world recession started from the financial crisis of the United States, the very high spread, the floods, the resignation of President Berlusconi in November 2011, the rise of Professor Monti with his own measures defined a few years after recession, the suicides of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Well, this parliamentary term is even more dramatic. Many speeches have been made by colleagues in the House who have improved the text, especially in favour of territories, entrepreneurs and municipalities. I remember the 31 million citizens receiving the 200 euro bonus; I remember the one-off allocation of 500 million for 2022 for self-employed workers, for professionals enrolled in compulsory social security schemes managed by private institutions. The municipalities were allocated the residues of the Covid funds not used for facilities on the Tari and 150 million to stem the increases in energy bills, temporarily giving the possibility, for 2022 only, to use also the proceeds of fines to stem energy costs. I imagine that it will be a condition shared by all of us to be contacted every day by very worried mayors who do not know how to bear these costs, how to guarantee heating in schools, libraries, municipal clinics, municipal offices, cadastral poles, civic halls. The mayors are already heroes - as other Members have mentioned this morning - but we really need to give them the opportunity to operate, because they represent the institutions in trenches which, every day, must give convincing answers to all citizens. The same dramatic phone calls come to us from the entrepreneurs, who say that the bank from today does not grant them the transfer of the tax credit; that they are out of 2 or 10 million, that they do not make it and they skip. We must give these people answers, and unfortunately we do not have all the answers they need. Needless to say, the 110% bonus was an expansive measure, because the changes that are taking place have complicated the realization of the works and even in some cases put at risk the holding of small, medium and large companies really important. I guess we'll have to keep going. We still come to the absurdity of the heat-to-energy plant. You've seen a stomachache of some unintelligible. Waste management remains a disgrace to Rome and Italy as a whole, due to the enormous economic, environmental and image and dignity costs. We need seriousness, and we do not need distractions from the program of an emergency government by a majority that, in another context, would never have been born. This week we have seen a psychodrama, of which we would have gladly done without, remembering that one must never fear the vote of voters and electricians. I hope for more serious and responsible behaviour towards not only the institutions we represent, but also and above all towards the country, which is lost and with little expectations of recovery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u59	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the situation in which the country is located is different and, unfortunately, more serious than that which existed two months ago, at the time of the writing of this decree-law aid. The economic emergency does not appear to be part of the picture; indeed, the latest data, including the weakening of the euro linked to the prospects of European recession, give us a much more worrying overall picture. I recall the recent and drastic fall in the SME indices (purchasing managers index) of the manufacturing sector in Germany and other major European economies. It means that, in essence, German entrepreneurs, who represent the first European manufacture, expect to have few orders. Again, there is a real possibility of a further reduction in the supply of Russian gas, with all that will result in the increase of bills and the prices of basic necessities. The effects on the lives of citizens and businesses are likely to be unsustainable, with company closures, the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs, an increase in the number of families in difficulty, and an increase in poverty. For all these reasons, we believe it is essential that the Government tackles the situation in the chest, by urgently approving a new decree-law that puts in place at least 30 billion euros and has the following objectives: to help concretely and without hot cloths all sectors still in crisis for the pandemic and those in difficulty for the war; to cut the so-called tax wedge, to put more money in the pocket to those who have low incomes, continuing and widening what is done with the budget law approved in 2020, during the Government Count II; to put in place aid to families and enterprises on bills and energy costs; to reduce VAT on first-hand goods and energy products; to increase and extend to other sectors taxes on extra profits, that is on those who have had extraordinary profits thanks to the war and the pandemic [[Applause]] ; take hard action on speculations that are driving the prices of many products and provide for an extraordinary plan of installment and c-breaking of the debitory folders, at least until 2020, to allow honest taxpayers, who are the vast majority and are in economic difficulty, to pay taxes in full, without discounts, but not to pay sanctions and interest. These are not evaders: they are citizens who have declared their incomes, but they did not have the money to pay taxes because of the crisis. We trust that this can be done by the Government as a matter of urgency. Draghi's words at the press conference on Tuesday seem - I stress - to have accepted the invitation of the Movimento 5 Stars. In order to find the resources, in addition to the extratragettito mentioned above, one must have the courage to put on the field a budgetary deviation that the Movimento 5 Stars asks for for for months [[Applause]] , but that the government has not so far thought to do. This accountant's expectation has not borne fruit and will not give it. I want to remind the passant that the spread at this time is almost double what was there during the Count II Government. We hope that this expectation will end soon, because the continuation of the impasse would have the only effect of costing more for the country system, because it could kill many more companies, they would lose more jobs and the effects of the crisis would be greater. [[Applause]] I remember that during the pandemic, in 2020 alone, the Government of Conte II approved five budget deviations for a total of 130 billion; resources that protected the economic fabric, laying the foundations for the following year the Italian GDP to mark the record increase of more 6,6%, which was the best figure in Europe. The effect of that growth, the result of forward-looking and courageous investments and not the result of accounting calculations, is also positively influencing this year's GDP, with a drag effect that Minister Franco himself quantified in a 2.2%, as he noted during the Davos forum. So we are now afloat thanks to the interventions of the Count II Government. [[Applause]] Today the needs are even greater than those of 2020 because the effects of the pandemic are being added to those of a war of which the end is not known. [[Applause]] Such a difficult and dramatic situation cannot be dealt with with with micro aid, but it requires courageous and ambitious shock therapy. If the government continues to reason with the mentality of 2011, with austerity, with the help of a hundred years, we will not get out of this crisis well; indeed we will come out very badly, exactly as happened in 2011 and in the following years. History should teach us something. We are confident, however, that we will convince the Government to do so and, like Movimento 5 Stars, we do so every day. In these hours there has been talk of minimum wage. We at Movimento 5 Stars have been doing this for years and since 2019 we have presented a serious and concrete bill in the Senate, but here too it takes courage from the Government. You have to do it quickly and well. Have you read the latest data? There are 4.5 million Italians who are poor workers: 257 collective agreements that pay under 9 euros. What needs to happen even more in order to put a hand in this sector? [[Applause]] There are hundreds of testimonies of men and women who are offered wages that insult dignity: 280 euros per month, as we have read in all the newspapers, for ten hours of work. There are hourly payrolls - payrolls to say - of about one euro per hour. Do we still want to endure this situation? What really must happen if we are to take action to guarantee Italian families a free and dignified existence, as enshrined in Article 36 of our Constitution? In other European countries, the minimum wage already exists and this shows that distributed wealth increases and certainly not decreases; consumption and general well-being increase. Speaking of dignity, we of the Movimento 5 Stars strongly wanted the decree dignity and therefore we want to return to that spirit and to the objective of promoting stable contracts, because without stability there are no life prospects for young people; there are no projects of family and children, without which every year we find ourselves dealing dramatic with the demographic decline, except then organize, to wash our conscience, hypocritical family day. Employment contracts must be stable and, when they are not, they must be entrusted to the logic of the cause. On citizenship income I listened to indecent and false words, among other things. Official data from Istat and not from the bar, trash TV programs or social media should be sufficient. [[Applause]] The official data tell us that, thanks to the income of citizenship, in Italy there is a million poor less. [[Applause]] The effectiveness of this measure has also been certified by those who are historically committed to combating poverty and marginality. I am referring to organizations such as Caritas, Save the Children, the Community of Sant'Egidio, important economists and also the OECD: everyone agrees that citizenship income is a measure that has marked a turning point in the fight against poverty. Data on active policies are also encouraging. Anpal's data - I am always referring to official data and not to those of the bar or television programs - tells us that citizens' income recipients have signed contracts in more than 700,000. In a period of crisis such as the current one, marked by the pandemic and the war, we must be satisfied with this result. Sure, you can do more and more. Employment centres could work better and the regions, to which the Constitution assigns competence on this matter, have done little or nothing. In fact, seven out of twenty regions have not hired even one employee, despite the government's provisions. [[Applause]] I would point out that five of these seven regions are governed by the center-right which, one day yes and the other as well, attacks this measure. I conclude with a quick hint of the superbonus. We expected a real release of the credits just to save the thousands of companies that trusted the state and that now have tax drawers full of tax credits. This rule, however, has not arrived and, therefore, we run the serious risk of those companies failing and losing hundreds of thousands of jobs. [[Applause]] We ask once again the Government, Minister Franco and President Draghi, who obviously do not like this measure - they have shown it in every way - to intervene courageously because we are sitting on a social bomb. You have to intervene on the superbonus. Finally, I would like to stress that the measure in question contains a rule which - I am sorry, but I must say - seems very provocative. I am referring to the incinerator rule, which has nothing to do with aid and which we had responsibly proposed to the Government to remove and incorporate into any other regulatory carrier, but we have been told no. [[Applause]] That means on the part of someone to continue irresponsibly pulling the rope. Instead, we want to continue to take care of the Italians and propose every day solutions that go in their exclusive interest. We continue to be confident that the Government and this majority will listen to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u61	The general debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2668, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 50 of 17 May 2022 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u63	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 50, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u66	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, a year and a half ago, our Group responded to President Mattarella's appeal for a government of national unity to face the pandemic. The vaccination campaign had to be developed and PNRR projects had to be put to the ground. Meanwhile, a war broke out that ripped out the rules of engagement at international level, showed our energy fragility and resulted in an even deeper economic crisis. At the same time, the consequences of global warming, between drought and fires, are entering our daily lives with a tense leg. As if that were not enough, the pandemic has resumed to hit hard and the coming months are once again a question mark. In the face of such a delicate situation, we are among those who ask the government not to change its march, but to move forward with the same conviction and determination as it has shown since its birth. In the eyes of foreign chancellors and markets (where our debt is financed), but above all of citizens, who every day lose purchasing power, and of businesses, which face problems of increased costs and access to raw materials, a government crisis would appear to be an absurd and incomprehensible fact. It would be even more so if this crisis were born around a measure designed to help those who suffer. There are 16.5 billion in order to finance interventions like the energy bonus of 200 euros in favor of the incomes medium-low, for the credit of tax also for the enterprises not energeticore, for the aids for the field of the road haulage, for the simplifications for the field of the renewables, for the funds and the guarantees for enterprises in crisis of liquidity, for the measures to contrast of the dear materials, for the safety of the works connected to the PNRR. Mr President, our vote is not only a vote in favour of the measure, but it is also a strong vote in favour of this Government, which enjoys and will continue to enjoy our trust and support. The fight against inflation and carovitation, the commitment to freeing Russian gas and the development of new energy policies, the use of PNRR funds and the fight against the pandemic and drought, not to mention the many dossiers we have to deal with in Europe: in the face of these problems, which require answers not over a few years, but a few weeks, the only way is still that of responsibility and national unity. Of course, we can discuss and deal with whether the best route is the minimum wage or the cut-off of the tax wedge; whether a new budgetary deviation is necessary or whether we need to take a more decisive step in Europe; whether we need to work on access to credit or we need to take action on the Equitalia charts. What can't be done, however, is to destabilize the country in the hope that it will gain political advantage from this situation, and that's what I see at the moment. Also because, on the right and on the left, I don't think anyone will gain any kind of advantage. 12:54 p.m. (Follow Steger). For us, this government must move forward with the confrontation, of course, and with that spirit of unity and responsibility that cannot fail right now. Common sense, logic and respect for the many families and businesses that are waiting for concrete answers and that would simply remain ruthless in the face of a political crisis in the midst of the storm. We, as Autonomists, will continue to support the Government with determination and responsibility. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u69	DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to express yes to the question of trust in the Group of the European Right for the future. He is convinced of a decree-law not by chance called "aid," designed and launched to counter the thousand emergencies that Italian citizens live daily; emergencies caused by the pandemic crisis, the increase of energy and raw materials, the galloping inflation and all the other difficulties caused by the crazy war waged by Russia of Putin against the children, women, men and innocent families of Ukraine. To those unarmed people, attacked in their own home and who for months resist and defend their vital spaces, fields cultivated with sacrifice, factories and infrastructures fundamental to their economy; to those people who heroically resist and defend those values of independence and democracy in which we also recognize ourselves, go our support and our full solidarity. Mr President, ours is not a solidarity of circumstance. As children of a generous and heroic resistance to the Nazi-fascist oppression from which our Republic was born, and as parliamentarians, we fully grasp the value of the sacrifice of Ukrainian citizens committed, also on our behalf, to defend and protect the best values of the West and of democratic Europe. [[Applause]] Also to protect these values, Mr President, the parliamentary group to which I belong was born, proud to support the struggle of the Ukrainian people together with the whole of Europe and our allies; proud to reaffirm the validity of our international position; proud and determined to guarantee a government to this country in one of the most dramatic stages of our republican history. As we have said and repeated in recent days, I repeat today in this House that in the face of this dramatic situation we really do not get to understand and justify how the majority of the government and the Executive can be put into continuous fibrillation; how can we pervictly carry out destabilizing action perhaps only to win some headline, in the hope of increasing some points in the polls in view of the forthcoming political elections. Let us say and clarify with force, even before the citizens who today follow us worried about television channels, that those who are chasing interests of partisan and party are also cowardly turning their backs on the country. [[Applause]] This is a politically irresponsible behavior, of which they will be called to respond not only in these weeks, but probably in history books. That is why we ask ourselves how we can deny our support for the measures contained in the decree-law in question. We have millions of unemployed, millions of underpaid workers, millions of citizens who are the victims of absolute poverty, hundreds of thousands of companies on the brink of failure, drivers and fishermen unable to fill their tanks for the star prices of fuel; the health system on the brink of collapse is once again called upon in recent days to withstand the terrible impact of rampant contagions. These are the dramas that we have before us and many others to which this majority and this Government try to give an adequate response precisely by decree-law aid. It does so by means of measures covering more than one area and area of competence. We go - as I said - from measures relating to the reduction of energy prices for families and businesses, to lines of support for companies, fiscal and financial policy measures, tax credit and all other measures affecting society, such as the famous EUR 200 bonus, not to mention measures in favour of culture, education and local authorities. This is to remember only some of the measures and not even all the most important ones; measures that young people, pensioners, families and businesses look forward to. That is why we have no doubt in voting on this measure. We have no doubts about the need to give strength to the Government, so that in the coming weeks and months it can continue to work to put in place all the reforms, all the necessary measures to exhaust the procedures related to the acquisition and the use of the resources of the PNRR and to bring to completion the work that the president of the Republic Sergio Mattarella has indicated to us at the birth of this Government. There are three famous emergencies, Mr President: the pandemic one, the economic one and the social one, to which unfortunately the fourth, even more dramatic one, has been added, the war linked to the Russian invasion of Ukraine; a heavy task, which I would venture to call titanic, for which the maximum of solidarity is needed. That is why I am addressing all the political forces in this House. Never before do we need an honest and clear collaboration, in the name of republican unity and solidarity, putting behind us every interest of party and party. We need a new pact for Italy, which the political forces present in this Parliament can certainly favor, and to which a good signal were the meetings held in recent days by President Draghi with the social partners, trade unions and Confindustria. Following this aid decree, President Draghi has already announced a large measure, to be adopted by the end of July, with urgent measures to support businesses and families. In this direction, President Draghi has our full support and encouragement. A substantial measure would certainly be a good road for work to be done, with Parliament and the social partners, with a view to drawing up a budget law capable of implementing structural measures in support of economic growth and solidarity. At the first point on the agenda there must certainly be the fight against inflation, an unfair tax that certainly affects the poorest and that we must fight to avoid further erosion of the purchasing power of families and increases in the production costs of the productive apparatus. Another emergency is certainly work, which needs appropriate support measures, which can raise wages to acceptable levels, so as to combat that unacceptable phenomenon now simply called poor work. You don't need to remember that, as President Draghi himself put it at the top of his agenda. Then there is the age-old issue of the tax wedge, which this Government and this majority have repeatedly expressed their desire to achieve a robust cut as soon as possible, so as to fill the workers' paychecks. There is still much to be done, although much has already been done. The citizens look at us, waiting confidently for this Government to continue to work to solve their dramatic problems. I am thinking above all of the people who are currently in hospitals, of the elderly and of the young people who watch sad television shows in the evening, where there is a fight in a political that they do not understand. And I don't think they enjoy following, in front of television screens, in newspapers and social media, those who seem to want to commit more and more to making the government powerless and humiliating it. Mr President, we continue to hope for that republican spirit which, at the worst moments in our history, has been able to call political forces and citizens together to get out of the most dramatic emergencies, and this is a dramatic moment. The challenges ahead are colossal. We need everyone. We need the confidence of the Senate, which certainly President Draghi will have, as well as we of Together for the future Democratic Center we express ours. [[Applause.]] (at 13.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u72	CRUCIOLI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, the day before yesterday I listened to the President of the Draghi Council say, in front of the foreign press, that all the objectives have been achieved by the Government and that Italy would be a stronger country. I don't know what country he sees, but I, wherever he turns my eyes, see the damage caused by this government in the country, damage to the spirit of the country, first of all. I see a divided people, I see a weak, confused and frightened people, and I see, above all, damage to the economy. First of all, the damage is represented in a plastic way by 2,800 billion debt. It is clear that these debts have settled and accumulated over the years. But if we look at the period of the pandemic, since it began, and at the way in which the pandemic itself is managed hysterically and paternally, we see that the debt has increased by an additional 500 billion. We have been the country with greater closures and more divisive measures, which have created hatred and divisions in all families, which have created discrimination and have produced the economic damage that has led to the enormous increase in the deficit. Let us then look at what is happening with regard to the alignment with NATO's most outrageous positions on the war by this Government. First NATO barked in front of the Russian Federation, causing the conflict, and now it does not want to reach any kind of compromise. For us it is not a taboo to say that a compromise, even of a territorial nature, to put an immediate end to the conflict must be considered. On the other hand, Italy, with a truly uncritical adherence to NATO's positions and against its own interests, considers this discussion a taboo and continues with a policy of clear opposition and conflict to the end, whatever the consequences that this entails, even of an economic nature, as well as those of a military and nuclear risk. We are seeing these consequences through the increase in raw materials and energy: we have in fact the tripled cost of bills, the gasoline stable above two euros per litre, the inflation that on an annual basis has increased by 8% and that in the last month has increased further by 1%. Inflation this year has provoked and will result in an increase of 500 euros for each household only for the shopping cart. Then there are 5.6 million people in absolute poverty; poverty is at its peak, rising further this year, with one million more absolute poor. There are almost five million workers who take less than 1,000 euros a month; there is the business crisis, which in September and October we will see leading to an increase in unemployment that has never been seen before. In the face of all this, our President-in-Office says that Italy is stronger and we have achieved all the objectives. What are your goals? They are certainly not the ones to do the good of the people, if the situation is what I have described. If these are the data, what goals have been achieved? As far as the aid decree is concerned, there is a tax on the extra profits of companies that have benefited from the energy crisis at 25%. It is clearly an insufficient measure; much higher taxation should have been imposed on those companies. What about the tip of 200 euros? We have said that, only for the increase in the cost of food, Italian citizens will spend 500 euros more, each of them, to buy food and give 200 euros one-off to a small population, however with the release in October for a very large slice of those who will be entitled to it. Above all, the sale of tax credits, superbonus, and thousands of companies in the sector and the families who relied on this measure are not decisively unblocked. We had proposed that the House cut VAT on foodstuffs, but the amendment was rejected. We do not achieve that pacification that could begin to be pursued in the context of the green pass and the vaccination obligations, because the rule that delays for the over fifty the possibility of being fined and should have been a sort of moratorium, allowing to cease the sanctions for those who had freely chosen not to vaccinate. Faced with this catastrophe and this impossibility on the part of the Government to put hand to the most serious economic situations, because with a debt of this kind and with the end of the extraordinary purchase by the ECB of our government bonds it is clear that the Government cannot do more, because the parties in all these years have literally eaten Italy and today there is no longer a euro in the cash register, it is obvious that someone wants to distance themselves. But it will not help, because those who for almost two years, since February last year, have supported all the divisive measures, all the measures that have led to an even greater gap between the super-rich and the very poor, all those who have shared the approach of this Government will not get away without voting on trust today. Italians have understood that those who up to now have supported the sending of weapons, the increase of expenditures in armament, the destruction of the superbonus and has led to the loss of the confidence of Italian citizens in the institutions, today you can not call out with this farce, coming out of the Senate and not taking responsibility. Two years of sharing this policy will remain a mark of infamy. We knew it, we had said it from the beginning that the Government Dragons would bring nothing good; it was a disaster, it is the real virus that hit Italy and today we want to mark it and we brand it with a dry no, once again, as we have always done, to trust this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u75	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President of the Senate, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the debate of these hours has taken a completely different turn or at least ultronea compared to the measure on which today Italy Viva announces its vote in favour. On the subject, Mrs Conzatti, a few minutes ago, made very clear the reasons for our support for the decree-law aid, but the situation that has arisen calls for an appeal to be made from this House and with one recipient, who is the President of the Council, Mario Draghi and no one else. I shall come to the end of a very brief speech with three introductory thoughts, Mr President, the first of which concerns the past. July 14 is a challenging day to start a new story. Those who love it and know it know that the French Revolution is certainly a milestone in the history of our continent and not only, but also know that many of those who left to guillotine ended up guillotined and at a certain moment the Jacobin club had a crazy consensus. They fought to enter the Jacobin meetings, all were for the Jacobins and then the Jacobin leaders themselves ended - alas - not very well, with their heads on the scaffold. This of course is a thought that has to do with the past and no one could compare it to what is happening now; the French Revolution with all its limitations has been a serious thing. On the contrary, the debate of these hours has not been a serious matter. I come to the second thought about the present and I address, in particular, my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars. I have a duty here to say that if a person opens a crisis in a time of difficulty he has full title to do so; I'd be unbelievable if I didn't say that after what happened a year and a half ago. Therefore, intellectual honesty wants it to be said that if colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars have chosen, with their procedures that are not ours, not to vote for trust, this is legitimate and it is not acceptable the moralistic design of those who say to the triggers that a crisis does not open up in a time of difficulty. There is, however, one thing to say to fellow Members of this House: if we decide not to vote for trust, then the letter of resignation of the Ministers and the Subsecretaries is signed, because it is ridiculous that in this House, ten minutes ago, the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà del Movimento 5 Stars, has put the question of trust on behalf of the Government while, in a few minutes, the leader of the Movimento 5 Stars will explain quite legitimately why confidence does not vote for it. Where is the Minister for Agricultural Policy? What does Senator Patuanelli do? Do you vote for the government to which it belongs or not to vote for it? You can do what you want with your choices, but there is a limit, in terms of dignity, decency and honor, that you have surpassed in these hours. [[Applause]] There is a point that concerns the future, I say before I reach the final appeal. [[Applause.]] When you tell the truth you have effects of this kind. I'm telling the friends of the Democratic Party. Talking to some of them, in these hours I was told: seeing Professor Conte's behavior we are struggling to understand the reasons for this year's crisis. It's true, so are we. Seeing Professor Conte's behavior, however, I hope you understand the reasons for the crisis last year. [[Applause]] Bringing Dragons instead of Count was not an act of irresponsibility. Bringing Dragons instead of Count saved Italy - which is the most important thing - but it allows the Democratic Party to get out of the tunnel of subalternity compared to what they called the point of reference of progressiveism: they were your ghosts; back to reformism, reformism can never be populism. Finally, I would like to make the most important appeal to the President-in-Office of the Council, through you, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate. We have all said here that it is time for responsibility. It is true, it is true for each of us; when we make certain statements we must first look at ourselves in the mirror: the war in Ukraine, a pandemic emergency that is no longer that of a year ago, but that still has challenging numbers, a complicated energy situation. Yesterday, Gazprom's announcement of the problems of Nord Stream went quietly through; No one has mentioned it, but look at the fact that that is the real problem in the coming months, together with the issue of inflation, because inflation has not been so high for years, and not only in Europe or Italy. Yesterday, America said that inflation at 9.1 percent had not existed for 40 years: will it be a global problem to be tackled together? Then there are problems that do not depend on us, as the cloud brings bad luck: drought; there are problems related to famine, immigration. I mean, there's a lot of problems. The anxiety of responsibility must also apply to the Government in office and to the President of the Council. As you know, I am an admirer of President Draghi, I am proud that he is our President of the Council. With the same frankness, amicus Plato, sed magi amica veritas, we must have the courage to tell the President of the Council Mario Draghi that nothing justifies today a stop of the Government in this situation. We have to close the PNRR package, the budget law and then go to the elections next year and each of us will have our own election campaign. Thinking of using daytime chatter, like those we have seen in these hours, to block a fundamental activity not for us, but for the country system, would be unacceptable. I shall end with that, Mr President. These are delicate moments. No one talks about them. At international level we have rightly said that we are on the side of democracy, we have rightly fought together on our values - obviously from different positions - but there is no one here who has the courage to say that democracy in this 2022 is experiencing a page of enormous difficulty. This is the first time I have spoken in the Senate since the death of a friend like Abe Shinzo, the Japanese Prime Minister; democracy is in crisis in Japan. This is the first time we have a real debate after what happened in the UK, where anyway - like it or not - Johnson had won the election and goes home. This is the first time we have a real discussion after three sentences of the American Constitutional Court - beyond merit, I put them in line: weapons, abortion and the environment - that in a week have marked a new page in the relations between the White House, Supreme Court and Congress. This is the first time we have even debated after the democratic problems in Sri Lanka. From Sri Lanka, which is not really the number one country in the world, at least as a population, to the United States, there is a situation of insane democratic difficulty. I would not like Italy to be added to the list of this sad list tomorrow morning, because the fact that Draghi is President of the Council today was the result of a political choice of a year and a half ago that we claim, but today Draghi must continue to play the role of President of the Council because it serves Italy and let me say that perhaps, if there were a crisis today, in other capitals not properly democratic tonight or tomorrow someone would celebrate. I want them to celebrate Italians and not celebrate others. Good work, ma'am. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u78	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to say on the premise is that we think - as a force of opposition, but I believe everyone here in the Senate - that at such a serious and difficult time for Italian politics, when we do not know if we will have a government this afternoon, there is only one place where the President of the Council should stand now and that place is here in the Senate of the Republic, because we want to confront the President, not the empty benches of a ghost government. [[Applause]] The second thing I would like to say is that we have read the agencies, because we are not in the majority, and we know of the attempts made this morning to try to keep the majority together, not on trust, without voting on trust, but by voting on the amendments in such a way that we can continue in government action, according to such a Byzantine reasoning that no one has managed to understand it. I want to remember that because when some of you, some of the newspapers or televisions, or some of the intellectuals who are crazy, come to tell us that this is the Government of seriousness, we will remind him of the scenes from the low empire this morning. [[Applause]] We are faced with terrible and epochal challenges, some of which have already been mentioned by our colleagues in the Group who have spoken. I will mention only one fact that has been released with the latest bulletin of the Authority for Energy: in the last year the average price of the gas bill for Italian households has risen by 70.7%; the electricity bill from now to July 2023 will rise by 91.4%. I too am forced to make the geopolitical picture - I dare say - of the situation in which we are all involved: there is war 700 kilometers from the Italian border, there is a huge difficulty in guaranteeing the supply of gas, there is a huge problem to get the grain out on the Black Sea, there is the risk of famine in African countries, there is the very real risk that famine generates new migratory waves that add to those already existing, there is the problem of inflation never so high since 1986, there is a pandemic that we do not yet know if it is behind us, there is a drought crisis that brings agriculture to its knees. These are all the emergencies that Italians worry about and that Italians believe should be at the heart of the government's action. However, it would take a strong, cohesive and serious government, instead we for weeks - I have lost count of how many - we live in a bubble made of blackmail, theater, ultimatum and penultimateum, all of which belong to the worst first Republic. We have a former President of the Council, Count, who still has to work out the double mourning resulting from the division of Di Maio and his eviction from Palazzo Chigi and that one day yes and the other also bombards the Government. The President of the Italian Council is on a mission to Kiev, in the war zone, and while he is in Kiev he does not know if his country has a foreign policy, because in the same days in Italy his majority of foreign policies put in place three or even four. And then, a few days later, in Madrid, we have a NATO historical meeting to decide the entry of Sweden and Finland, but our President of the Council, Draghi, must return hastily to Italy: he is a beautiful figure that our country makes on the international scene! You tell us that the Government is the one that guarantees the image of Italy abroad. Well, Draghi takes the plane, returns to Italy, because it happens that Conte, Grillo and pieces of the 5 Stars blame each other for being totally inadequate. And if they say so, we of course believe it. [[Applause]] If that were not enough, the Democratic Party planted its ideological flags in the House, knowing that it had no chance of having the ius scholae or the law on drug liberalisation passed, with the sole and sole purpose of irritating and provoking the allies of the center-right. Faced with this, with what has happened and is happening, we have been waiting for weeks, President, colleagues, for someone from the government to stand up and say or shout: Look, my boys, the recreation is over! But no one stood up to say that, President. It seems that the government is a Titanic, going towards the rock as the orchestra sounds louder and louder and more and more crowded. The so-called "best" government has come to the judgment of public opinion and Parliament saying that it would be the government that would guarantee reforms, important things, the fight against emergencies, stability; but the result that you bring here today is exactly the failure on all these fronts. You give us today the failed balance sheet of your government action. I am asking those who have asked, even in these hours, whether the Government should continue its action even after: would you entrust the government of Italy in the autumn to a majority that falls because it is not able to approve the realization of a thermovaluer in the province of Rome? [[Applause]] If you are unable to approve this, what reforms can you approve in the autumn? What kind of emergency war can you make if you can't even do the politics ABC? This is because there are no technical governments, there are no institutional governments; there are only political governments. This is a political government with everyone in it. But a political government with everyone in it can't help but end up doing it: it's going to crash. It's like driving a car in which there are passengers each of whom wants a different destination. The end is this: either you stand still or you go against the wall. Unfortunately, what we are witnessing is exactly the clash of the Government against a wall and in doing so brings with it also the destiny of Italy. Mr President, I do not know - we will now listen to the final explanations of vote - what the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars will say. I know that in recent weeks they have said that they want to stay in the government, but also stay out of it; that they vote for trust, but they do not vote for it; that they are against this Executive, but the Ministers are very close within the Commission. I would like to say that the situation is serious but it is not serious. Even with regard to this, we of Brothers of Italy claim goodness, rightness, courage, foresight, the seriousness of having remained the only force of opposition and we reiterate once again that we are not and will not be willing to make the stamp of any government, because we just want to be part of a government elected by the citizens of center-right. [[Applause]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that President Draghi is not here, because I would like to tell him that we expect him - because we believe he is a serious person, apart from political differences - to be consistent with what he announced only 48 hours ago at a press conference, when he said that there is no and there will not be another Dragon Government, following this, without the current majority. I would add that only those who fear or despise democracy are afraid of election day. This majority, ladies and gentlemen, is over and this Government is also over. Let's give the Italians the floor with the vote, let's finally let them decide who they are governed by. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u80	You have the right to do so. Senator, this isn't exactly the last day of school.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u81	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, our LEU-Ecosolidali Group will vote in favour of trust. The measure contains several useful and necessary measures in the face of the crisis. Of course, not decisive, but absolutely necessary. We, too, do not share all the choices contained in this decree-law; there are issues, such as the superbonus, on which, as many colleagues from various quarters have said, an answer must be found. There is the issue of the EUR 200 that not all workers perceive and is a problem to be tackled absolutely. Then there is the norm relating to the thermo-energy plant in Rome, which some in our Group do not agree with. I want to say to my colleagues and members of the government that, if we wanted to make this choice, we could choose a number of ways to avoid being faced with complications such as those we are now unfortunately faced with. There are useful choices for energy issues, for businesses, for local authorities, for health and the regions. However, I would like to focus on a number of political considerations, which I think are essential. The first thing I want to do is: sovereignty belongs to the people and elections are an element of democracy, as is evident. Then there is the real situation of the country. However, I understand the different political forces because, beyond the pronouncements (putting the interests of the country before the interest of the party), then some confusion in the facts is made. What has not convinced me is the representation of the debate and political debate these days. It did not convince me because I find that there is a great distance, too large, about the crisis of democracies between the real life of the country and the debates we are having in this House. It's a problem that questions everyone, not just someone. From this point of view I want to be clear that there is no ambiguity; it is time for clarity for each of us. I understand, I say sincerely, the discomfort of the Movimento 5 Stars. This is an inconvenience that other political forces, in other words, also live. I understand, for having seen it myself, that the instrumental attacks on the 5 Star Movement perhaps had the objective of setting aside the Movimento. Allow me to tell you with sincerity and frankness. It is a political mistake not to participate in the vote. It is a wrong choice that puts at risk today and - I stress this - tomorrow a perspective that we have worked together in these years, hard and not always simple. If we are to be intellectually honest, we must also tell ourselves something else. If we are in this situation, responsibility is not just on the one hand. You could and had to build a different path in order not to find us here. I would like us to reflect on this, also for what we have to do from this afternoon onwards. There are the war, the energy crisis, the pandemic (which is far from defeated) and the PNRR to land (we have, yes, achieved last year's goals and the first goals of this semester, but landing is still a very complicated task). We need to see clearly and transparently whether there are conditions on the part of everyone to deal with the issues we are facing. What is the first question we have before us? We have to face up to the picture that Istat has proposed; we are faced with the biggest social issue that, perhaps, we will have to solve very badly in the autumn and we have to decide how to deal with it. It is clear that we are in a majority with very different positions, but the fact that in the last thirty years the purchasing power of wages in Italy has decreased, while in the other European countries it has increased is a problem or not? Is the fact that we now have an entire generation in precariousness a problem or not? Is the fact that, according to Istat, 50% of the new recruits of 2021 are already in a state of poverty a problem or not? This is what we need to verify, that is, if we are able, with a stroke of kidneys, to give an answer and overcome the distance between real life and the dominant narrative that does not convince me. We must check this here in Parliament, as other Members have already said. On this Draghi - it is important - has made the commitment, which for me is a central element, for a new social pact that addresses, in the first place, this social crisis and these problems that concern a significant part of our population. Let's check it out and everyone here will assume their responsibilities. The only thing we can't do is to go on pretending nothing, but in relation not to the vote of Movimento 5 Stars, but to the social crisis we face, to the enormous challenge of ecological transition and to what other countries are doing. But do we really have to keep walking with our heads turned backwards? In ten, seven or five years' time, if we do not really undertake the ecological transition as a new model, the productivity or energy cost differential, how much larger will it be than the one before the pandemic crisis between us, Germany and France? That's what we need to talk about. There are gordian knots to be cut and they must be dealt with in a spirit of responsibility, of national solidarity, in view of the fact that we respond first of all to the citizens who do not make it, because inflation far exceeds the declared inflation and they need a Parliament that is able, as Don Milani said, to take on this problem. We vote for confidence and we are serious about this debate, knowing that our positions cannot be those of everyone, but wanting to achieve the fundamental results to change the state of affairs of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u84	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today was supposed to be just a good day for the families, workers and businesses to which this measure gives important answers. A good day had to be for politics too, which these answers have found. We should all have been proud of what we are voting for today with this passage to the Senate, namely a decree-law that does not have a name at random: aid. This measure provides for 20 billion for families, workers and businesses, to support purchasing power, to contain energy costs, to renew and strengthen interventions for the lowest incomes (from the 200 euro bonus), to prevent the construction sites linked to the PNRR being blocked. We should have been happy because we brought home important measures for citizens and the country. Moreover, it is a decree-law that is converted two days after the opening of the Government to a great opportunity, that of the construction of a social agenda, with the reduction of taxes at work, the fight against inflation, the defense of the purchasing power of wages: measures against precariousness at a time - we have all remembered here today - very complex for the country. It was supposed to be a good day because politics does its job: it finds answers to the needs of citizens. The problems, in fact, as well as represented, must be governed. [[Applause]] It shows the Italians that they are not alone, that their representatives in Parliament are working in this difficult time to support the economy and want to continue to prevent the difficulties of an autumn that is not going to be easy at all. When politics succeeds in being compact, it also brings great hope to the country, which is a term that we use too little. While you can find solutions in the parliamentary classrooms, those who look at us from outside are less lonely. Politics that intervenes on loneliness is a policy that does good. Then how nice it would have been to be able to tell this day as that of a path that continues looking at the country, telling an overall line of interventions of the Government Dragons for 33 billion and beginning to plan the lines of that next measure that the Government has defined as full-bodied and that should arrive to the Chambers at the end of the month and that will start this great social pact with the unions, with the enterprises, against the precariousness, for the minimum wage, against the effects of inflation, for the cutting of the fiscal wedge. [[Applause]] But we would do a wrong to us, who support this Government, if we did not remember that the interventions for citizens and for families we have been doing them since this Government was born. We too would lose the perspective of what we have done in recent months, always putting the needs of the country at the centre. Politics is also the art of predicting; it must be a vision ability, it must look beyond and we have said this in the majority. As a Democratic Party we were also at the forefront when we voted on the Economic and Finance Document, because we remembered that we would monitor those forecasts to be able to make targeted interventions in support of a country that needs help. This has happened, also thanks to the authority represented by President Draghi, we cannot forget it. This government was born for this reason and, in an emergency situation, as an Executive of national unity composed of different political forces, who assumed, in front of the President of the Republic and Italy, precisely the responsibility to do things for the country, not for the single political force. We would have liked to have talked about all this and we would have spoken in this way to the citizens who are waiting for all these speeches. Unfortunately, however, for a few days we have been talking about something else, using issues that are all internal to politics, far from the citizens, in terms far from the citizens and above all from their needs. We as a Democratic Party can only take note of the choice of the 5 Star Movement, which has announced that we do not participate in the vote of confidence; it is a choice that we feel wrong and that does not leave us indifferent in merit and method. On the substance, these days the PD has defended the need for the different political forces of this majority to raise demands. We know that we are different forces and we have seen this attitude taken several times by other parties. We have not considered the issues you have posed as ultimatums; we have considered them as pungole, stimulus. However, we have also seen a government ready to put the social agenda at the centre of its action (which, as I said before, was not born yesterday because, this agenda, this propensity to social already characterizes it) as a new response, even stronger, to the new economic framework that we are facing. It is not, therefore, a deaf government. In order to work on this agenda, however, we need the compactness of the majority, who must be aware that the important results obtained by the government are of all, are the result of a work of synthesis [[Applause]] , which may not generate happiness in the individual political forces, but represents the us from which this majority is composed, which has chosen, as I said before, to support the Draghi government; the results can only be found together. We have not been indifferent with regard to the method either, because today we are voting on trust in the government and it is a duty for the majority groups to vote on confidence in the Executive to which we belong. [[Applause]] Ours, then, can only be an appeal to responsibility, a true responsibility. To all the political forces of the majority I say that I consider it essential to clarify among us, among all of us, in Parliament about the will of the current majority to continue together this experience of government that I believe is, of course, necessary for the country. Every political force will have to say what it wants to do with the continuation of this experience, in this condition that - I repeat, as we have all mentioned - for the citizens is complex and difficult. We must therefore be consequent if we are to say that this situation is complex and difficult. It is also right that President Draghi here in this House should define the path here in the coming months. Premier Draghi is authoritative, with great international credibility, and it is a guarantee for our country. [[Applause]] He is a premier who has the confidence of the citizens and who has agreed to lead a Government of national unity in an emergency situation, which this international framework today makes more urgent. Therefore, that of the Democratic Party has been and remains an appeal to the responsibility of all towards the country. It's the country we have to answer. The priorities, for the Democratic Party, are the problems of the Italians, not the conveniences of the parties, I stress. [[Applause]] To resolve them, it is necessary to defend the stability and balance of the political framework. If we all put the interests of the country at the centre, then we will really carry out our task as representatives of the Italians. [[Applause.]] (at 1.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u87	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, together with the parliamentary group I am honoured to represent, Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC, I greatly appreciated the previous speeches: I appreciated the strength of some, the moderation and the attempt to appease others. Colleagues, friends, I think it's time to tell us the truth. From the outside they look at us and understand very little of what is going on these days. In fact, to begin with my speech I was looking for the right word to describe these two days of not lucid folly, which have a name and a surname: Movimento 5 Stars! [[Applause]] Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: that is the case. I appreciate transparency, which should be a distinctive figure. I understand the internal hardships, but not the mockery, towards this Assembly and the country, in a continuous stay inside and stay out, with a trust in alternating currents, depending on the House of belonging. Let's go in, yeah, but do we notice more if we stay inside and shut up or if we stay out and kick and make noise? [[Applause]] It is so complicated, ladies and gentlemen, to put the 50% of Italians who do not believe in us back to the vote. We can't hang. I say this loyally, as always he has been loyal, responsible and honest the support that Forza Italia has given to this Government, which he very much wanted. We cannot, however, as happened too many times, even for the previous Government, remain hung from the night reflections, which unfortunately do not lead to a conversion of President Conte, and I say it with great respect. [[Applause]] We can't do this! We can't afford it! Apart from the hardships, sufferings and whims of the Movimento 5 Stars, in fact, there would also be a country in crisis, a war, a pandemic, an economic emergency, an energy emergency and a food emergency that ask to be resolved. The government is here, colleagues. The problem is that it seems to me that the relative majority is missing. Now there is also the only surviving Minister, Minister D'Incà, who I imagine should draw the consequences, but I am told that it is not known, because here the surprise is mandatory and, as for a good yellow that we cannot read from the end, we will not know if the Movimento 5 Stars will be there or will not be, if it will be dismembered, if it will stay half in and half out, until we have the explanation of vote, which comes immediately after that of the colleagues of the League: therefore, suspense. I imagine, however, that Minister D'Incà will draw the necessary consequences from what will happen, as well as his fellow Ministers and Undersecretaries. Colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I ask you as a Bolognese: the 5 Star Movimento of a time, the one that enlisted Italy from my Bologna with a gigantic beep, what would say about the 5 Star Movimento of today [[Applause]] , of the relative majority party that is inside, but stays outside; who believes us, but does not believe us; who votes for confidence, but does not vote for the provision? What would you say if you didn't beep? [[Applause]] Confused and unhappy. What would Beppe Grillo say about Ministers who, after being formally distrusted by their political movement, by the relative majority party of this Government, remain comfortably seated and bolted to their chair? [[Applause]] Now Minister D'Incà is gone. Maybe he's doing the general rehearsal. Beppe Grillo would say: resign (don't beep) and let yourself be accompanied home, getting one last ride from your blue cars, paid with taxpayers' money! [[Applause. Comments]] Do you see that, if we want, we too can be populists? [[Applause. Comments]] Blue car. My colleague, Mr Gasparri, suggests that some are black, it is true. You see, colleagues, that if we want to... [[Comments]] The truth hurts you, ladies and gentlemen, but the coherence unfortunately lacks you. Beep! [[Applause. Comments]] Do you see that, if we want, we too can be populists and demagogues? Just say drinking things, make promises that you cannot keep and give simple solutions to difficult problems. [[Applause]] There are no simple solutions to difficult problems, ladies and gentlemen. We're not like that, though. We cultivate our responsibility, our sense of loyalty and our coherence. Do you know this word, "coherence"? [[Applause]] So we are not going to whims about a decree that is called, not by chance, aid and that provides aid for almost EUR 20 billion for families, to pay the bills and to help them contain the extra cost of food, and for businesses, to continue to produce. Apart from your palace games, dear friends of the 5 Stars, there is an entrepreneurial world that is stopping producing, because energy costs too much. [[Applause]] If local authorities do not have the tax relief and tax credits provided for in this measure, they will have to put in new taxes. Do you know the expression "new taxes," colleagues 5 Stars? Consistency. [[Applause]] Rome: we want to get her out of the garbage. Rome, which is the international showcase of our country, burns. [[Applause]] Rome, which is an immortal icon of beauty, culture and history, stinks. [[Applause]] What about you guys coming out of the room for a heat-to-energy plant? It's not serious, colleagues. [[Applause. Comments]] President, I'm sorry, they won't be consistent...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u88	You will have time to say then your thoughts. Let others freely express their thoughts.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u89	[[Comments]] You will have plenty of time to make your explanation of vote. Please keep it going. [[Comments]] Please, Senator Bernini. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). President, they will not be consistent, but they are very tolerant. [[Applause. Comments]] So, ma'am, I have a feeling that where... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u90	Everyone here can express what they believe. So, I beg you...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u91	[[Happy comments.]] If you do so, then legitimize others to do the same; then, you must not complain. Please. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, but maybe it's someone from Movimento 5 Stars once, not from Movimento 5 Stars today, who's insulting us and insulting himself. [[Applause]] As I said, we will continue to be consistent, as we have always been, but it is clear that we are calling for coherence from all, from all this House and from all the political forces that represented this majority in government. It is clear that if someone does not vote for trust, a new majority of government will be born here today. [[Applause]] We are not afraid, President: we are not afraid of the disputes; we are not afraid of being consistent with ourselves and of voting on the measures that are good for the country, as we have done so far; we are not afraid of the elections. We're not afraid of anything. [[Applause]] Madam President, I shall begin with the conclusion. Seeing that I still have time, I leave some to those who will have much more difficulty explaining their motives than we do. [[Applause]] However on trust Forza Italia, as always, there is. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u94	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that this vote of confidence is not like everyone else, but it can lead to the fall of this Government and the resignation of President Draghi and - who knows - perhaps even at the end of this parliamentary term. We will vote for confidence, we will vote for it mainly because the measures contained in this decree-law are useful; I would say more, they are necessary to the country in this dramatic situation. [[Applause]] Removing trust in a government is a legitimate choice; doing so on this measure is irresponsible. [[Applause]] Not trusting the Government today means saying no to energy measures to protect households and businesses; it means no to zeroing the electricity sector's system charges for the third quarter of 2022; it means no to reducing VAT to general charges in the gas sector; it means no to tax credit for businesses, road hauliers, the fishing sector and the purchase of energy, gas and fuels. It would mean, colleagues, saying no to new rules to facilitate and accelerate the production of gas in our country and energy from renewable sources. [[Applause]] Not voting for this confidence also means saying no to measures to support companies' liquidity, which we know is necessary. It means saying no to measures in the field of social policies, measures in favour of territorial authorities, regions, provinces and municipalities and to all the amendments that parliamentarians approved in the House with the consent of the Government, improving this decree-law. [[Applause]] It means ignoring the work done by Parliament (more than 20 billion). Then it means questioning the next decree-law, the one at the end of July, announced by the Government and in which we put a lot of trust: additional resources to face the most dramatic situation that our country has lived since the post-war period. Is it easy to be part of this government and support it? Certainly not. Certainly it is not for us, for the League, a political force that has nothing to do with the policies of the Democratic Party, the 5 Star Movement and LEU. However, it was a choice dictated by necessity: there was no clear majority in this legislature; it was necessary for each of us to assume responsibility on the basis of our own possibilities and the situation we were experiencing. We are experiencing a dramatic situation, not only because of the pandemic, but above all because of the consequences of the war in Ukraine. Unimaginable scenarios have developed in this legislature and others we hoped would be handed over to history. New commercial, economic and political walls have been erected, with dramatic consequences for families and our economic system. The dear energy of light gas and fuels is such a serious phenomenon that every attempt to contain it is still insufficient and inadequate at present; despite the tens of billions allocated by the Government to contain its effects, there is still no favourable solution to protect families and businesses. Who would politically want to be dealing with this situation today? Who would want to be responsible for dealing with these emergencies? It is clear that it is difficult for everyone, it is difficult for the League, but it has chosen to give its support to the Government Dragons and has always done so with the utmost commitment of its Ministers and its parliamentary groups to the House and the Senate. [[Applause]] We did not escape this responsibility, because the time was and is exceptional. It was certainly easier to stay on the sidelines, to the opposition, to criticize what the government does or does not do; it would have been a certainly more profitable choice at the electoral level, a choice of convenience, but useless to try to resolve the dramatic situations that our country is experiencing. [[Applause]] We prefer to put ourselves to the test every day, in the Commissions and in the House, in order to improve the measures of this Government. It is certainly easier to abandon the game now, escape and escape from their responsibilities, at a time when a very difficult and very heavy autumn is announced for those who will have to take political decisions. I do not want to judge the behaviour of a Movement that has decided to take away the trust of the Government, but a request I feel to do it: do it responsibly, do not put at risk the approval of this and the next decree-law and the allocation of tens of billions necessary and useful to families and businesses. I shall end this speech, President, with a few requests from the Government, if there is one more. Much has been done: over 33 billion to try to curb the increase in gas and fuel bills; much, but not enough, beyond the good will and commitment of Parliament and the Government. What's missing? First of all, for us, we need the tax peace and the dismantling of the debitory records. [[Applause]] We cannot think that, in the face of this crisis and all the increases, many Italians who have always fulfilled their duty, who are not tax evaders and who have endured the most severe economic crises are also facing the arrival of tens of thousands of tax collectors. We need common sense, we need responsibility. And then, we also ask for the solution for those who have invested in the 110% building bonus; it takes balance. [[Applause]] This measure comes from an earlier government. He probably made mistakes, but expectations have been created. Investments are being made by companies and households, which cannot be abandoned halfway. We must accompany them with the necessary investments and find a solution. [[Applause]] We are asking for a correction of citizenship income. Colleagues, it is creating major problems: instead of creating employment, it is driving people away from the world of work who could find employment in the tourism and agriculture sectors there is a shortage of staff, yet expenditure on citizenship income increases. There's a short circuit that needs to be corrected. [[Applause]] There is the very serious theme of the purchasing power of Italian families. The increase in energy costs has shown how much purchasing power is absolutely inadequate, there is real inflation that we consider more than 10% and we need to intervene to protect the purchasing power of Italian workers and pensioners. The Government has started this debate, the League will be present and participate with concrete proposals to restore dignity to the purchasing power of families. As for the subject of energy self-sufficiency, we believe in investments, we are not the party of the no to everything (the thermo-valuers, regasifiers and instruments that give energy self-sufficiency to our country). [[Applause]] We also call on the Government to seek with greater conviction, at European and international level, the way to find the end of this war, which has led to energy increases that we are unable to withstand. The war is hurting everyone and our country, perhaps more than others. President, the League has been and is loyal, has accomplished and will carry out until the end of this parliamentary term its duty to protect families, jobs and businesses. [[Applause]] If, however, the conditions are no longer met, take note of them and vote on them. [[Applause]] The dramatic situation in the country cannot wait for the slow and cumbersome responses of politics: rapid and concrete answers are needed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u97	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, representative of the Government, colleagues, in 2018 the Movimento 5 Stars presented itself to voters with a clear electoral programme, for a country that was on the path of a real ecological transition; a country that knew how to enhance its young people and the work of women and where rights and services were distributed fairly from North to South; a country that could accompany citizens with measures such as citizenship income, minimum wage, the fight against precariousness and the cutting of the tax wedge. [[Applause]] In order to change this country, which had been immobile for decades, we also made it clear that, if we could not govern ourselves, we would do it with those who shared those issues with us. [[Applause]] , because, beyond ideologies, we have always been interested in doing things. And so, we have created two governments, led by our President Giuseppe Conte, in which we have carried out more than half of that electoral programme. [[Applause]] In the Count Government I have approved the law on citizenship income, the law of roughshods, the decree of dignity that fought against the precarious, the cut of the costs of politics. In the Count II Government, despite being invested by a pandemic, we have worked incessantly to transform that tragedy into opportunities and we have introduced the concept of shared European debt, obtaining as many as 209 billion euros of funding to make the reforms that this country has been waiting for decades. [[Applause]] We have invested EUR 13 billion in health care, a further EUR 17 billion is also allocated to the PNRR for territorial medicine; we have invented the superbonus, which is our law, which has restarted an area that has been stationary for years. [[Applause]] We have strengthened the right to study, used cashback and started the first energy communities in this country. [[Applause]] The Count II Government fell at the hands of those who speak of responsibility today [[Applause. Comments]] However, at the time, Mr President, there was no qualms about not voting on the PNRR in the Council of Ministers, rejecting, in fact, EUR 209 billion. [[Applause.]] Well, even then, President, we supported the birth of this Government, respecting the indications of President Mattarella and with great generosity, because we could not turn our backs on the country, when it was necessary to complete the vaccination campaign and the PNRR. It cannot be hidden that having supported this Government has strongly tried the citizens who believe in Movimento, but we have always worked for a serious confrontation on all issues and to find solutions, avoiding unnecessary polemics. This was not, however, the attitude of all other political majority forces. We have suffered constant attacks and provocations and there has been total indifference to our demands. [[Applause. Comments]] Let me say, Mr President, that no one would continue, as we have done, to work head-on in this House, in the Commission and in the Government, because for some political forces the only objective of these eighteen months has been to dismantle all our measures. [[Applause]] Let's start, for example, from the superbonus, an instrument that has contributed, like no other measure, to the growth of GDP and has relaunched the building sector. Today the 24-hour Sun certifies that, against 38 billion costs, the benefit on the economic system is 125 billion per year. [[Applause]] Despite this and despite the public appreciation of the European Commission, a number of government interventions have taken place which have changed the current rules, blocked the circulation of credits and, in fact, thousands of companies are at risk of failure today. [[Applause]] These are citizens and businesses who believed in the state, which then changed the rules in progress. Let's talk about citizenship income. Colleagues, we can no longer witness, as has been the case in this House today, attacks on a social protection measure. [[Applause]] They are attacks against the most vulnerable sections of the population. Istat has certified that with citizenship income we have avoided one million more poor people. We are talking about cashback, a measure that has helped to speed up the process of digitization of public administration and to combat the black economy: it has been cancelled, without even consulting us. [[Applause]] We are talking about the decree-law dignity, a set of rules designed to counter the precarious, which is demolishing piece by piece. In fact, the precarious contracts have never been so many. Today in this House we are debating a decree-law which is actually the synthesis of two measures: the aid decree and the so-called bill decree. It is almost EUR 18 billion for families and businesses, which also come from the taxation of 25% of the extra profits, which is something we have asked loudly. These are important resources, but certainly not sufficient, because other measures and other support are needed to respond to the economic crisis that is attacking families and businesses. There's no time to waste. This measure has a methodological problem, because none of our proposals have been accepted in it. We were not allowed to amend the text in any way, nothing to unblock the sale of credits, nothing on the price of energy, nothing on contracts, nothing on wages [[Applause]] Not even the reasonable request that we made to amend that rule that the Democratic Party wanted and that it was totally foreign, which entrusted Mayor Gualtieri with the power to build an incinerator, going against the regional waste plan. [[Applause]] A madness that condemns the Roman citizens to pay from their own pocket 700 million euros and that, Senator Bernini, cannot help to manage the issue of the waste that burns today, because the incinerator will be ready in six to seven years. We have experienced two years of emergency Covid and today we are facing the most serious economic crisis ever. Inflation has risen to 8%. Only this year 100,000 businesses are at risk of failing and hundreds of thousands of people every day have to decide whether to pay their bills or put a plate at the table. We believe that this extraordinary crisis must be addressed by extraordinary measures, and then we must take action to cut the tax wedge, which will make the payroll heavier. We really need to strengthen the ecological transition by investing in renewables and simplifying authorisation processes. Answers must be given to those 4.5 million poor workers, introducing the minimum wage. All these points, however, for us priority, are contained in the letter that President Conte handed over to President Draghi. We welcome the opening of the wage table with the trade unions, although we are not convinced of a proposal on the minimum wage which lacks the minimum threshold of 9 euros. [[Applause]] It is good to have also announced a new decree-law aid by the end of the month; if a new measure is needed, it means that we are right to say that this aid is not enough. [[Applause]] And so our vote today is not consistent with what our ministers and our colleagues in the House have already said. We do not participate in the vote on this measure today, because we do not share any of its merit or method. This position of ours, however, escapes the logic of trust in the Government and says that the action of the Government weakens [[Applause]] .. Mr President, I would ask you for an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u98	I already gave it to him.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u99	CASTELLONE (M5S). To say that the government's action weakens, when one is trying to clearly indicate the political line, it is false. Who wants to confuse the plans does it to exploit the situation and to blame us for the moment of suffering that the country is experiencing. We must respond to the social malaise that is mounting clearly and decisively. [[Applause]] Mr President, let me conclude by recalling three concepts that we have often heard in this House: responsibility, stability and dignity. The responsibility is not silence, it is not pretending that problems do not exist. We are not responsible, it is irresponsible who does not give answers to the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u100	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u101	CASTELLONE (M5S). Stability is built on solid pillars and bases. The stability of a country is built on the actions that the government puts in place. Finally, dignity is what we are defending today, that of a parliamentary group and a political force that have been acting loyally for years, but suffering shameful attacks. I therefore confirm that my Group does not participate in the vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u103	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u104	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, we now also have a vote of no confidence unless agreed. [[Applause]] If I understand correctly, the theme is social: this crisis opens up because there is a serious social problem. Welcome to the real country. And who raises the question of precariousness, of maintaining workers' rights? A former President of the Council who was unable to lift the motorway concessions to the Benettons after the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge. What face are you talking to? A former President of the Council who gave the money to the multinationals, who then closed the barracks and puppets [[Applause]] : Embraco, Whirlpool and singer company. What did Count do for those workers? I'm moving on. To put the social question is a force whose leader is the former Premier who gave Italy into the hands of Arcuri. Even Ilva gave Arcuri. For four years the 5 Stars have ruled and work has become a generational emergency that not only affects the under 30 precarious, but also the over 50, who, if they lose their jobs, no longer find it: they are social ghosts. To them you have put the vaccination obligation to go to work: a real blackmail. It is not enough to try to use the disinfectant gel, perhaps the one that Arcuri brought, to get you out of the embarrassment of the Dragons government: you are now dragons. And while Draghi meets Uber and Zuckerberg at Palazzo Chigi, I say: honor to taxi drivers in protest; honor to the restaurateurs in the square; honor to the seasiders who oppose auctions; honor to the traders who can stand against what you gave Amazon; honor to small and medium-sized enterprises, families, workers, to all those who from the pandemic onwards have only deluded with words and never given money. The multinationals, Big Pharma and the gun lords got the money from you. Fiscal peace? Do it, instead of sending the letters from the Revenue Agency to those who have not been vaccinated; now the Revenue Agency is sending the letters with fines. The decree-law aid, like all others, is merely made of words. In fact here neither Dragons nor Minister Franco put their faces on us, because it is an empty decree. The bills are expensive and full of gasoline becomes a luxury. Speak of state, of agreements that go to ramengo: the betrayal of the superbonus is the betrayal of the principle pacta sunt servanda. You're stealing businessmen. You're helping! What about the issue of security? More immigrants, more insecurity in cities. Congratulations to Minister Lamorgese. I'm gonna finish. This Parliament does not represent the Italians, as well as Dragons, Hope, Lamorgese, Cingolani and Colao do not represent Italy, but other powers, hooded powers. Italexit says no. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u106	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u107	NUGNES (Misto-Man.A Pap PRc-Se). Mr President, we have never voted for the trust of President Draghi, because we have never deluded ourselves and have not confused a top manager, a man of finance and banks, with a great man of state. And the repeated confidences show this: there is absolutely no trust in the institutions by President Draghi. What we have understood is that clearly this measure is not enough to resolve the situation in the country and to meet what will be an extremely hot autumn. The situation we are facing cannot be solved with warm cloths. We have a situation of disastrous social and economic inequality: in Italy wages have not been increased as in the rest of Europe for several decades. Olivetti claimed that no manager would have to earn more than 12 times the last worker, but already in the years Eighty the country had managers who earned 45 times more than the average worker; in 2008, in the midst of economic crisis, the peaks were around 400 times; in 2020 a top manager earned on average 650 times more than a worker and I refer to the average, because it can reach more than 1,000 times, while salaries have not increased. This cannot exist. We have to increase our salaries and above all we have to take note of what is contained in the report by Istat and INPS: we have 4 million people working for less than 12,000 euros a year; in fifteen years the poor have tripled and this will only get worse. From the point of view of ecological transition, not only do we return to gas and oil, but we are talking again about incinerators and nuclear power plants in the midst of drought, in other words, in a very serious water crisis. So, you are not the best, but you are absolutely inadequate to the task that has been assigned to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u108	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u109	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2668, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 50 of 17 May 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Dell'Olio is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Dell'Olio. (Senator Secretary Giro makes the appeal.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2668, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 50 of 17 May 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 212 Senators voting 211 Majority 106 Favorables 172 Contrars 39]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 50.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u112	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, let us say that today, however, a speech at the end of the sitting is an act of hope. I would simply like to urge the minister of university and research to answer a number of questions which concern the correctness of a number of competitive procedures. I believe that starting the academic year in a few weeks without having made clear one of the most important objectives of the university, which is the recruitment of teachers, can really be a thorn in the side. I therefore call on the Minister to come to this House and report on why a series of competitions that have also been held by the judiciary did not have a coherent response to the truth and also to the seriousness of the university.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u115	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, I would like to put to the proceedings of the Senate an affair that concerns the moral hazard of bankers, cracks and serial bankruptcies with the help of the contiguous controllers Banca d'Italia and Consob, which caused the sad phenomenon of betrayed savings, burning sweat and sacrifices of thousands of families for at least 200 billion euros, starting with the black hole of Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS), whose coup d' grace was inflicted with the resolution signed by the then governor Draghi for the purchase of Antonveneta at the insane price of 17 billion for a bank that was worth three and which directly concerns me as Associazione defende utenti servizi banche e finanziali (ADUSBEF). On 4 February 2013 Fabrizio Saccomanni, in his capacity as general manager of the Bank of Italy, sent an email to the President of Consob Vegas, for knowledge to the Governor of the Bank of Italy Visco, to the director of the Treasury Lavia, in order to urge a decisive intervention against the undersigned, at the time president of the AUSBEF, as the same in a press release had said that the crack MPS amounted to 15,4 billion euros placed on workers, accountants and savers in the most serious scandal of the Republic, begun in 2006, that it could not have happened if there had not been complicity and connivances by the incestuous triangle between Italian Banking Association (ABI), Consob and Banca d'italia. Saccomanni complained that unfounded statements such as those of ADUSBEF, circulated for a 15 billion euro crack, could have very serious consequences on MPS and that he would be grateful for a courteous response. The President of Consob, as it turns out from notes of February 5, 2013 in the margin of the letter, was active against the undersigned, guilty of having told the truth in the protection of vexed and massacred savers. That truth will come out on 26 April 2022, when the Franco Minister of Economics, before the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Banks, confirmed the black hole of 65.7 billion Euros MPS, calculated by the undersigned to date from 2006 (cited 14.8 billion and quota 500 million), although closing that it is not public savings, thus ignoring Article 47 of the Constitution that also protects a euro of those who save. Madam President, I should like to end by thanking you because the judicial violence with which Consob and Banca d'Italia invested not the creators of the crack, but the one who denounced it is the proven proof of an abuse of power dictated by the will to hide the truth, which however came out nine years later. It is a still alive and current judicial outrage to conceal the truth of the facts on the part of a system of vengeful power, confirming the sad reality of a country upside down, among the first places for corruption, which perpetuates itself, punishing honests and servants of the State, rewarding thieves, corrupts, workers, proven proof of the unstoppable Italian decline and its maximum institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u118	GRANATO (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to bring you to the attention of the situation of serious discomfort experienced by addicted pharmacists. These professionals are, in fact, classified as traders in terms of economic treatment, but as health professionals in terms of obligations and charges for the payment of social security contributions. In fact, the trade contract to which they are subject provides for a salary of 1.450 euros net per month, but then, in order to support vaccination obligations and for the payment of ENPAF contributions, they become health professionals. As employees, on the one hand, they have the Inps, to which the holders pay the pension contributions; on the other hand, the ENPAF, to which, as professionals in the sector, they have to make three payments per year, for a total of about 750 euros by 31 December. If the pharmacist, hired for a fixed time, forgets the request for a reduction in the rate, he is charged that of a pharmacist holder, ranging from 2,500 to 4,700 euros per year. The freelancer who does not have a pharmacy, but who wants to work with VAT is obliged to pay the full rate of 4.700 euros. If, therefore, the pharmacist is already linked to other social security funds, he must submit another ENPAF reduction request, ranging from 85% to 35% of the full rate. Most ask for the reduction to 85%, which amounts to 750 euros that the employee must defalcate from the poor monthly salary of 1.450 euros. Employees who were suspended because they failed to comply with vaccination obligations have not only been deprived of their already low salary but have been treated as self-employed persons for social security purposes. Therefore, they were assigned the same rate of 4,700 euros as the latter and, for the moroses, also the debitory folders have started. We are faced with a real extortive practice to the detriment of a category that, from the point of view of economic treatment, benefits from a commercial contract and, under that of burdens and responsibilities, is treated as a freelance professional. Moreover, it cannot even temporarily suspend payments to the cash register, as is the case with other professional orders, without seeing the accounts arrive. In fact, it is also included in the category with the highest rate. This is because in Italy there are about twenty private pension funds that have the same legal configuration as the public ones and, therefore, can forward debitory folders. There is no limit to the afflictions imposed on workers by this Government: from gag to suspension without salary, to debitory records. While the crate is untouchable, the lives of citizens have been transformed into hell.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u119	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-453.ana.u120	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 20 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.25 a.m.
