ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda provides for the discussion of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 115 of 9 August 2022 on urgent measures in the field of energy, water emergency, social and industrial policies. As you know, the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a have some problems in defining their work. I therefore ask the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to refer to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u4	Mr President, the work of the Commission is still under way. At present, the sitting is suspended, there are talks between the Groups and the Government, and I do not think that we can get to the Assembly until 4 p.m. In the event that we finish earlier, it will be our concern to inform the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u5	If there are no comments, I propose that the sitting be suspended until 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, if I do not have to preside over the sitting anymore - I am forewarning you, so that you may be present, that at 4 p.m. the President will be there, for the commemoration of a very beloved Member of Parliament, and it is therefore not correct that I anticipate it - I would like to thank you for the kindness with which you have sometimes responded to a way of presiding not always orthodox, but I hope not unpleasant. [[Applause]] I therefore suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.37 p.m. and resumed at 16.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u6	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Mr Senators, with great emotion I would like to start this sitting by recalling an esteemed colleague, who, after a difficult illness, left us on August 17th. I'm talking about Niccolò Ghedini. To recall the human path and the professional path is particularly painful for me, because Niccolò was for me first of all a dear friend, one of those family presences that I have always felt belong to my history. Niccolò was a brilliant lawyer and our attendance was born under the aegis of law. His studio was a few meters away from mine and, although we had several specializations (I civilianist and Niccolò criminalista), we had developed a strong professional collaboration. Peaceful and silent, thanks to the weapons of law, he became an authentic fighter. He studied his cases with almost maniacal care, always interested in the human aspects, beyond the legal aspects. Then came the political experience. Involved since university in youth activism, it was in the mid-1990s, after the experience as secretary of the second junta of the Union criminal chambers, that Niccolò chose politics as an experience of life, adhering to Forza Italia: deputy in the XIV and XVI legislature, senator in the XV, XVII and the current legislature. The common political passion inspired by faith in the same ideals greatly strengthened my bond with Niccolò. Together with national commitments, it combined the extraordinary relationship with the territory and with the community of Padua and Veneto, which has often led us to confront each other on small and large decisions, even with heated discussions. What made him special in my opinion was that while standing behind the scenes, out of the spotlight, he was the absolute protagonist of all strategic choices. He could be interested, with intellectual curiosity and sincere political passion, in the most disparate issues, but justice always remained the core of his institutional activity. The guaranteeing, the separation of careers, the reform of the MSC, the reasonable duration of the processes were the issues to which it linked its name indissolubly with proposals now returned to the centre of the institutional debate. In all it emerged the figure of a man who behind the severe appearance and impenetrable gaze actually had an authentic humanity, that of the constant commitment for the weakest and for the most needy, cultivated with total discretion. Many are the traits of the senator and man Niccolò who will most miss all those who have been able to know him in depth. The passion for law, the visceral relationship with the territory, the natural vocation for politics and the ability to give to the less fortunate authentic happiness, personal acumen: many dowels, a human portrait of rare craftsmanship, with ancient charm and contemporary awareness. I hope that his authoritative voice, his unmistakable way of living politics as a whispered art, his solid value anchor can offer an example and a witness to all those who today are called to continue their institutional and political journey. Personally, I will jealously bring with me the memory of a man who has always been able to conquer me with his irony, his loyalty, his consistency and his courage. In the heartfelt memory of Senator Ghedini, I therefore invite this House to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u9	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after this heartfelt memory of Senator Niccolò Ghedini's President of the Senate, I would like to remind you of another person, an illustrious Italian citizen, Piero Angela, who died on 13 August. A person who more than any other has revealed to the country the fascination of knowledge, especially in the scientific field, the wonder of discovery, but also that unstoppable journey that has united us for thousands of years as humanity, every time pushed to conquer a new piece of unknown. With his precise and inclusive words, Piero Angela explained to us that this journey we can face without fear if we are equipped with the peaceful weapons of the scientific method. It was wonderful to read and listen to the words that have been addressed to him from every part of society, from the institutions, from many of you, from every political leader. The images of that row of people of all ages and origins who went to greet him on the occasion of the burning chamber, I believe were the powerful visual testimony of the affection and gratitude of generations of citizens to him and to his passion, which was above all civil, a true love for the country. I too would like to add my gratitude for what he has done, for how he has done it and will continue to do it thanks to his memory. To express this gratitude I have waited for the resumption of the work in the Senate because I believe that it is precisely the Parliamentary Institution, the heart of democracy, that is the task of honouring Piero Angela's memory in a concrete and effective way. It is up to Parliament, all political forces, now engaged in the electoral campaign, to take up the invitation, formulated as a sort of spiritual will, to play their part in feeding with resources, attention and dedication the knowledge and cognitive capital of this difficult country. Investing in education, research and innovation, especially in times of crisis, may seem less profitable from the point of view of electoral consensus because the problems, some would say, are many others. Well, preparing for this brief intervention, it occurred to me when in the middle of civil war Abraham Lincoln signed the Morril Act, with which he founded the Academy of American Sciences and gave impetus to a series of initiatives to promote science, technology, advanced education for all talented young people. At that time, many members of Congress were opposed and wondered why the Academy of Sciences was created at such a difficult time and he replied: to give a future to the nation. Piero Angela taught us that we can explain to citizens, that politics can explain, and communicate to citizens in a fascinating way the need to invest today in education and knowledge to give a future to our nation. These investments, as Marguerite Yourcenar, author of Adriano's Memories, wrote, are equivalent to building public granaries, amassing reserves against a winter of reason that, despite us, we are increasingly facing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u10	As the law of Decree-Law No 115 of 9 August 2022 concerning urgent measures in the field of energy, water emergency, social and industrial policies is on the agenda, President Pesco is entitled to intervene in order to communicate the current situation so that he can decide when to convene the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u11	Mr President, the Groups have raised the need to ask the Presidency to convene a meeting of the Leaders in order to define the programmes and the timetable for the next few days. I therefore think it is appropriate to convene a Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u12	Mr D'Incà told me first that there should be an informal meeting, and then to convene the Conference of Leaders at around 5.30 p.m.-17.40 p.m. You're telling me to summon you now. From what you tell me, informal discussions are already over. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u13	I think it is necessary to convene the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u14	I immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u15	The Minister asked me to tell you that he would be in the Senate at 5.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u16	How? He told me, too. [[Comments]] I can't hear anything outside the microphone. I asked the Presidents of the Commission - there is also Senator D'Alfonso - and they tell me that the talks have ended, unlike what I had previously understood with the request by the Minister for a summons at 17.40, precisely to allow a continuation of the "treaties." I think you're telling me something different. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u19	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we have already had a meeting with the parliamentary groups and no solution has been found. Minister D'Incà, at the request of the groups, should have asked her (he asked me to do so, since he ran away and I don't know why, he didn't communicate it) to convene the Conference of the Leaders, but at 5.40 p.m., which was the time when he would return to the Senate. The idea is therefore to convene the Conference of Leaders at 5.40 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So it's yours and not yours. FARAONE (IV-PSI). No, the Conference of Leaders is a requirement of the Groups, the timetable is a requirement of the Minister, because we are present.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u20	I understand that there are needs of the Minister, but there are also the needs of other people, of the Groups and perhaps - let me say - also of the President. I understood that the request to convene the Conference of Leaders at 5.40 p.m. was determined by the need to continue a dialogue which could presumably have led to a definition on the issue of amendments (which from about 40-60 have become 400). This is not an irrelevant debate, but I would also like to understand it. I therefore suspend the sitting to decide when to convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause. The sitting was suspended at 16.28 a.m. and resumed at 16.30 a.m.]] Colleagues, I will immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders and suspend the sitting once again. (The sitting was suspended at 4.31 p.m. and resumed at 5.42 p.m.) The Conference of the Leaders has established that, in the light of the work in the Commissions reunited 5th and 6th, the decree-law aid- bis will be discussed next week at the sitting of Tuesday 13 September, beginning at 12, even if not concluded in the referent. Without prejudice to the time already allocated for the general discussion, each Group will have a further ten minutes to examine all amendments including illustration, discussion and explanation of vote. The final explanations of vote shall be without prejudice to the ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u21	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 13 September: [[Tuesday 13 September h. 12 - Drawing of law n. 2685 - Decree-Law n. 115, Aid- bis]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2685 (Decree-Law No 115, Aid- bis) (excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 10' General discussion: M5S 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 5' FIBP-UDC 10' Mixed 15' PD 7' FdI 5' IV-PSI 5' UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV 21' Ipf-CD 5' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) -]] Each group will have a further 10 minutes to examine all the amendments, including illustration, discussion and explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u22	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-463.ana.u23	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 13 September, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is adjourned (17.43 p.m.).
