ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.40 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 24 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that, at the beginning of the sitting, the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u4	Senator Clotilde Minasi, by letter received on March 23, 2022, resigned from the position of senator, opting for the position of city council member to the social policies of the Calabria Region. As this is a case of incompatibility within the meaning of Article 122 of the Constitution, the Senate can only take note of this. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys is hereby authorised to convene immediately to carry out investigations concerning the identification of the candidate entitled to be proclaimed in place of Senator Minasi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u7	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking only to clarify to those who did not attend the session of the Foreign and Defence Committees. I would also ask you to speak with the presidency of the Senate or even with the Council of the Rules of Procedure. We are faced with an agenda, presented by Senator Rauti, which makes a very heavy commitment, which concerns 15 billion to spend in the next year and a half (and to be found in the state budget for the next year and a half). There is the will of the Government to accept it and the unwillingness of the Presidency of the Commission to put it to the vote. Since there has been a request from many of our group's senators and probably silently from other senators who would like to speak on this agenda, I would ask you whether you can give us an interpretation that is useful today, in the future and always, with respect to the proposer of an agenda. The Rules of Procedure speak for themselves: the agenda is not in the hands of the proposer, but - in my opinion - of the House, which then evaluates it, and of the Government. Therefore, the senators must be allowed to express their views in relation to the will, in this bad case, of this agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u8	Thank you, Senator. I will tell the President of the Senate that more than I am entitled to speak. I must say, in fact, that the agenda does not commit to spending that amount which you have reported by a specific date; I say that because I was present in the Commission. [[Comments.]] However, you have not entered into the agenda, but you have put a question of the Rules of Procedure, which I refer to the President of the Senate, which will have to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u11	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Joined Commissions 9a and 12a are voting on amendments to bill No 2533, conversion into law of Decree-Law No 9 of 17 February 2022 on urgent measures to stop the spread of African swine fever. We have voted on some 30 amendments so far, but considering that there are 178 amendments in total and that we still have to receive some opinions from the Budget Commission, I think we would need two more hours of work. Maybe we could finish early, but I'm gonna ask for two more hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u12	In the light of the request made by the President-in-Office, with the agreement of the Assembly, I propose that the order of business be reversed and that the next item on the agenda be changed. Not making any comments, so it remains established. The Parente President is authorized to convene the 9th and 12th Commissions also during the explanations of vote on the draft law that we are preparing to examine, provided that the senators are present in the Chamber at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 1228. The working rapporteur, Senator Nencini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u14	, f. f. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what concerns the Pistoia Blues Festival is a work that has been widely discussed and shared in the Commission that I have the privilege of presiding. Senator Cangini has done a job of his own. I therefore turn to the report, which I shared and which the Commission, in turn, shared with its rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u15	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Having not yet completed the twenty-minute period provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u16	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the Calabria Region following the resignation of Senator Clotilde Minasi, has found in today's sitting that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned senator belonged is Fausto De Angelis. I acknowledge the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities of this communication and proclaim Senator Fausto De Angelis. Congratulations, senator. [[Applause]] I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u17	Colleagues, having passed the notice period of twenty minutes, we proceed to the vote of the articles. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. [[Brusio. Protests]] I am told that there is a technical problem, determined by the need to insert the name of the new senator, just proclaimed. Waiting for the problem to be resolved, I shall cancel the vote. They tell me that the technical inconvenience is over. I refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u20	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot hide the satisfaction of the debate today in this House of a draft law, at my first signature, which concerns a demonstration strongly linked to the territory, for which I also have the honour to speak in an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group: we are talking about the amendment to Article 2 of Law No 238 of 20 December 2012, for the support and enhancement of the Pistoia Blues Festival. I would like to express satisfaction and gratitude to the entire 7th Senate Commission for its sensitivity in addressing this issue, which certainly opens up further reflection on the countless events that constitute a huge national cultural and musical heritage and that, if put on the net, can represent a huge flywheel not only cultural, but also economic and employment and a further source of development for each individual territory. Allow me to thank my colleagues, Mr Iannone and Mr Barbaro, who have done an excellent job even in an amending phase in order to support the process of the bill. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Cangini, who, with sensitivity and an institutional sense, managed the work of the Commission, and also a special thanks to the President of the Commission, Senator Nencini, who took the bill to heart so much that he wanted to sign it in turn, demonstrating the importance of an event that, with its forty years of activity, has not only national value, but also international value for the musical quality it expresses. Last but not least, I would like to thank my fellow senators who have signed the bill with me: from my colleague Iannone to Senator Bishops, from Senator Masini to Undersecretary Bini, to Senator Ferrara and, last but not least, to my colleagues Mallegni and Floris, who also added their signature to the measure, demonstrating the political transversality that supported this initiative. I would also like to point out that at this particularly difficult time it is important to pay attention also to seemingly more marginal aspects, but they represent, instead, a signal of normality and attention to a world that can - indeed, it is - be a "tool" of communication between peoples. The Pistoia Blues Festival was founded in 1980 and its forty-year-long parable has led him to be the most important blues festival in Europe and one of the first in the world. From the first edition to today, it has represented a point of reference for the great international artists in Italy, combining quality and musical research with the specificity of the territory and, in particular, the landscape and the typical tourist reception of the Tuscany Region, of which to date is the music festival with the longest and most significant history. From the first edition to today, the main aims of this event have always been two: to promote the territory, Pistoia, Tuscany and Italy as an ideal location for great international music; to promote blues music as an extraordinary cultural heritage, which has generated in its ramifications and developments all contemporary music. The Pistoia Blues has been characterized so far by an extraordinary continuity, as I said, that has made it for forty years leading protagonist in the national panorama of festivals. All editions have presented star casts and over the years nothing has been lost compared to its national and international standing, thus remaining a reference point for the public, for the press, for the established artists and for the emerging ones. The festival has therefore promoted for forty years without interruption the territory, tourism and the Italian lifestyle through concerts and meetings all connected to the world of blues, but above all through its direct language and rich in humanity, which recalls values such as respect, brotherhood and coexistence. Never as important as this message is now. In addition to this it is important to point out that Pistoia Blues carries out training and scouting activities aimed at young generations of artists. For this purpose, in fact, it was born at the beginning of the nineties Goal BluesIn, in which are selected every year the emerging musicians who will participate in the next edition of Pistoia Blues. It represents a prestigious goal for many musicians, who want to make their passion and talent a profession. Goal BluesIn was born in 1993, alongside the event, therefore to enhance the new Italian talents in the music field, and is one of the stable and priority activities of the event; with free registration, it counts every year between 500 and 600 admissions and chooses the winners who will play on the main stage of the festival, one for each geographical area of Italy (Centro, South and North), through live selections that take place in the network of local members of the initiative. Participating in the Pistoia Blues with Goal BluesIn is a real showcase that, in addition to offering the opportunity to play on a prestigious stage in front of a large audience, presents the winning artists to a selected representation of organizers and operators of the Italian and European music sector guests of the festival. The winners of the BluesIn Objective also have the opportunity to be included in the compilation dedicated to the Pistoia Blues Generation Festival. There is therefore a special focus on young people. It is a real snapshot of new rock and blues talents of the Italian scene, with a selection of the best and most representative bands that have participated in the competition of recent years; an opportunity - I repeat - unrepeatable for young people. This legislative measure - I shall conclude, Mr President - means making a further qualitative leap in the organizational arrangements and consolidating the event, aimed at achieving a renewed capacity for planning and prospects: on the one hand, it enhances the historical and cultural heritage that the festival has represented; on the other hand, it allows the event to extend its activities and to involve other players in the national and international context, to enhance the experience and to expand the promotional activities. It represents an acknowledgment not only to a great event, but to an entire community that in forty years has narrowed itself around it becoming a whole one, during not only the days of July but all the year round, when the whole city becomes a great stage with its squares, its alleys of the historic center and the many locals that welcome the artists, allowing an atmosphere to breathe thanks to the many initiatives that involve everyone. For these reasons and for many others that time does not allow me to explain in detail, I declare the positive and convinced vote of the Brothers of Italy Group and my personal satisfaction. I thank the Senate Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u23	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, the measure that we are about to vote on today has a strong symbolic significance that goes beyond its content, obviously relevant. I'll try to tell it in a few minutes. As we know - we have remembered it today and read it in the same illustrative report of the provision - this is one of the main blues festivals at an international level and boasts a noteworthy history: its birth dates back to 1980 and in these forty years, thanks to the contribution of precious artists of the national and international scene, but also thanks to the care of quality and artistic music research, it has managed to gain the primacy of the most important music festival in Europe, as well as having one of the longest and most significant stories. It represents an opportunity at the same time to promote the organizing city - but also Tuscany and Italy as a whole - as an ideal location for great international music, and a precious form of art and culture such as blues. The initiative is in particular - on the one hand - one of the most important references for the main performers of this genre in the world and, on the other hand, a moment of promotion and valorisation of emerging artists. Many well-known artists choose this important stage to return to the scene after years of distance: I think - for example - to the singer Paolo Nutini, who recently chose this event for his return after seven years. But the list of artists is really very long. Entering more in detail, the bill in the original text consisted of a single article, with which was recognized to the only Municipality of Pistoia an annual contribution with the aim of supporting and enhancing the Pistoia Blues Festival. But, thanks to the valuable work that has been done in the 7th Commission, of which I am honoured to be a member, the audience of beneficiaries of an economic contribution has been expanded, including another important event taking place in Berchidda in Sardinia. I'm talking about Time in Jazz, known nationally and internationally for being one of the most important music festivals. The peculiarity of this festival lies in the close mix between arts: it is not only a music festival, but also an event that embraces many other arts. This is because, within his program, a significant space is dedicated to visual arts, cinema, dance, theatre and literature. This festival represents, in short, one of the places for excellence in which all the arts are called to express themselves and where the mixing between this and the other really represents something more for the viewer. So the choice that has been made and I take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the 7th Commission, the rapporteur, Mr Cangini, Mr Nencini and the Government, Mr Borgonzoni, for their efforts over the last few months. However, we come to the suggestion with which I opened my speech, namely the symbolic value of the draft law under consideration. I believe that, alongside the undoubted importance of an economic contribution to the valorization of two important music festivals for Italy, there is finally a choice of field, that is to invest economically in events, finally including among the Italian music and opera festivals also the Italian youth orchestras, of absolute international prestige. It means therefore having a precise direction, that of the valorization of culture and the arts. Italy can boast an enviable artistic and cultural heritage and these events are finally part of it in full title. Very often we forget these riches, but at the same time we forget that, in order to continue to exist, they must necessarily have real economic aid. I mean, what we're trying to do with this measure is proof of that. Investing in these fields is not a waste of energy, but it is a necessary choice. It is even more so today, after a pandemic and after the further tragedy that we are unfortunately still living. We also need to reinvigorate sectors such as culture, theatre, cinema, museums and festivals, which have had to put in standby a period far too long for their activity. We welcome these gender-based measures with actual contributions. That is why I strongly support Italy Viva-PSI's vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u26	Mr Marilotti (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion brings to light Article 2 of Law No 238 of 20 December 2012, including, in the context of the audience of the symphonic foundations already receiving an extraordinary contribution from the State, also the municipalities of Pistoia and Berchidda, for two festivals of absolute value: the Pistoia Blues Festival and the Time in Jazz. It is an important recognition that follows the inclusion of Umbria Jazz in the pantheon of the most prestigious Italian lyrical-symphonic reviews and a sign of attention to musical genres that attract the interest of an increasing number of citizens. The Pistoia Blues Festival, founded in 1980, is one of the main blues festivals at international level; a reference point for the great world performers of this genre and, at the same time, an important moment of valorization of emerging artists. The city of Pistoia, as well as the entire territory, is the protagonist of this festival, which, in addition to music, takes the opportunity to offer the many participants the artistic and architectural beauties witnessed by Tuscany, as well as the delights of its cuisine. Senator La Pietra and Senator Sbrollini have already spoken about this. On the other hand, I would like to give some information about Time in Jazz, which has been accompanying my Sardinian summers since the youth years and enriches my musical culture, as well as that of many other people from all over Europe and the world. Since 1988 every summer in Berchidda, a small center on the slopes of Mount Limbara, there is an unmissable event, with an echo of international scope. It is characterized by shows and concerts along the streets of the village, from sunrise to sunset. The physical and cultural animator of this event is Paolo Fresu, trumpet player and jazz composer among the most appreciated at national and international level. This small town of Sardinia, far from the route of the main European festivals, has managed to put together the best of what such a musical event should propose, combining the local and the global; bringing people together and making them experience the emotions of widespread culture, art that manages to sublimate transversality, great artistic talent, fantasy, originality, emotion, poetry, giving the world also the good wine and good food of hospitable Sardinia. If you go through the posters of the last twenty years of Time in Jazz, you will see that many musicians from different cultures and styles have participated and met. It is also for this reason that the festival is special and is a great catalyst of Italian and international music and culture. Inside the magic of Time in Jazz there are many people, we talk about poetry, the evening breeze that rises and comes down from the North, a little before the concert begins. There is the train that takes from Olbia to Berchidda; the trumpets, the violins, the saxophones, the accordions, the jam sessions until late at night; people sing, dance, have fun and sow love for culture, art and beauty. Since 2008 Time in Jazz has also carried out Green Jazz, an important project of ecological awareness, which aims to reduce the impact of the festival on the environment and on the natural resources of the territory through the realization of events and projects focused on some of the most current environmental issues, with a strong commitment to sustainability; with the inauguration of a thematic cycle dedicated to the four natural elements (water, air, earth and fire) and with the creation of a series of concrete initiatives related to the issues of energy saving, the use of alternative energies, the differentiation of waste, the reduction of CO2. Time in Jazz succeeds in the task of uniting cultures, to bridge the sensitivity and musical movements that grow in the enlarged Mediterranean, restoring to Sardinia its ancient centrality, not only geographical. The festival, thanks to the sensitivity of its founder, as well as that of many others who have joined him in recent years, looks at the sounds of the Iberian Peninsula, North Africa, South Europe, the Slavic and Arab worlds. Finally, I would like to talk about Time to children, a festival in the festival dedicated to children, with educational activities that are conducive to music; a summer campus of two weeks dedicated to children, children and families, with activities related to music, artistic languages, nature, territory and sociality, with a particular attention to inclusion and diversity. Berchidda and the other countries that constitute a circuit every year renewed, expanded and regenerated, absorb the musical and cultural influences that give us an appointment in Sardinia and distribute them, during the rest of the year, to all those who want to open their soul and their sensitivity to the beauty of the arts that, meeting together, grow and sow the germ of culture as an instrument of integration and peace. The measure we are discussing is an excellent tool to recognize and give certainty to great cultural operations that honour Italy and its tradition. In this context, the inclusion of Time in Jazz and Pistoia Blues Festival among national festivals worthy of support is an excellent investment. For these reasons, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u29	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this measure, of which my colleague Mr La Pietra is the first signatory and to which I am honoured to have added my and my colleague Mr Floris' signatures, is extremely important and significant. In Italy there are hundreds of festivals that have a national and international character and their support from the State is a choice not of generosity, but aimed at maintaining the national culture. The guests are national and international and everything takes place within unique contexts of their kind. In addition to the Berchidda Festival and the Pistoia Festival there are many others. Moreover, with the last budget law, Parliament has allocated resources to other important national festivals. In the law 20 December 2012, n. 238 was already included the Puccini Festival and with the last budget law several million euros were allocated for the centenary of Puccini's death. Today we have the opportunity not only to devote 250,000 euros a year to the Pistoia Blues Festival and the Time in Jazz in Berchidda, but also to open again a necessary beam of light on cultural initiatives that characterize many of our important cities and localities. The difficulty of the municipalities to support these important cultural initiatives is quite clear and the state must face the problem of supporting them in a definitive way. The resources, amounting to EUR 1.5 million, are taken from the Single Show Fund (FUS), which - let me play the word - is not a fund without a fund and has no end. The FUS - I would also like to remind you of the existence of a committee that examines all the projects and takes into account a number of initiatives each year - must be one of the most supported funds by Parliament, the Government and the State in general. Therefore, in my opinion, we have a duty to fill this fund and to support those local authorities which, with great difficulty, from the smallest to the largest, play a worthy role in maintaining national culture. Especially in these two years of the pandemic we have witnessed a systematic destruction, obviously because of no one, the theatre system, music and cinema itself. Therefore, it is necessary to support these realities. There are companies that do not live and do not survive; there are actors, actresses, singers and important musicians, perhaps less known to the general public, who, through the local systems of these festivals, can survive and make a unique contribution of their kind. You can't just ignore it. Of course it's easy: one arrives in Pistoia during the summer or goes to Pietrasanta and watch what the Pistoia Blues Festival or La Versiliana offer that year. But it took years to build all this. Professionalism has been served and the generosity of those who come to perform has served. And quality has always grown: day after day, week after week, year after year. Listening first to my colleague Marilotti, who preceded me in the speech, I felt like I was in Berchidda, listening to the notes of a violin. It really gave me enthusiasm and I thank him, because it was felt that that intervention was born from the heart. Thus Emilio Floris, Senator Marilotti's neighbor, who loves Sardinia and its territory, would have done so; as I do for my Tuscany, for the territory in which I live. I want to see this initiative as a first step. I want to see this initiative as a need to raise awareness of all of us colleagues who are sitting in the Senate today, in order to really invest even more in the cultural field. Someone once said that culture does not make GDP, that culture does not earn income, that culture is not important and necessary. Culture is the first thing in a country like ours! It is the first thing we must invest in; otherwise we lose our cultural tradition, which is obviously in the theatre, in music and also in what we offer from a tourist point of view. Here I briefly enter into an important split. What are these realities for tourism? What is the modern tourist looking for today, to spend ten days, a week or a weekend in a territory? It seeks the uniqueness of the proposal. And then we have to offer what we can and can do, because the uniqueness of the proposal is what makes the difference. Yes, we go to Sardinia because we go to the beach. Yes, we go to Tuscany because we visit the cities of art and then we go for a bath in Versilia: all right. But then what do we do during the evening? How do we organize the time we stay in those territories? Well, Pistoia and Berchidda offer an opportunity. This year we made these three speeches: La Versiliana, Berchidda and Pistoia. Fortunately for Pistoia and Berchidda we did it in continuous terms, while on the rest we have to work a little more. But we must not lose this opportunity, because behind the 250,000 euros a year allocated there are hundreds of accommodation facilities, restaurants and commercial activities in general that, the more they can promote the beautiful things that we finance today, the more they will charge and allow jobs. We do not do exhibitions and festivals to be able to wear the tricolor band and cut ribbons or to make sure that the Minister or the Undersecretary can be made beautiful because they have made an exceptional initiative, which must be reported on their resume. No: we do this because we care about the country's production system and, since we are not Alaska, Scandinavia or Norway, but Italy, we must invest in this. So the opportunity that we take today is unique. [[Applause]] I begin with the conclusion of my speech by announcing the convincingly favorable vote of Forza Italia and adding that, being I Tuscan and elected in that area, for me and also for my colleague Floris it is a particular satisfaction. I would therefore like to thank Mr La Pietra and all those who supported this initiative. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u32	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to invite everyone to see an extraordinary city like Pistoia, because it is very beautiful and very alive. I remember that, when I went to live in Pistoia in 2005, I immediately found a very lively city, with a beautiful landscape. I arrived at the very moment when we were going to prepare the Pistoia Blues Festival, so I was really impressed that the city is carrying out an international event, one of the most important at European level, but recognized worldwide. I am therefore very happy for the final approval of the bill under consideration, with which we recognize the city of Pistoia forty years of work and presentation of the Pistoia Blues Festival. This festival is promoted on two sides: on the one hand, it promotes the traditions and culture of the territory not only of the city, but of the same Region, which lives the event; on the other hand, it promotes music. Just at this time when music in certain fringes has also helped us, comforted and made us live emotions, we must be very close to all the artists, to all the musicians and to all those who work in that sector that in recent years have certainly suffered, so also to them will be dedicated our favorable vote. The festival also serves as a laboratory, to help introduce new talents, to see the growth of those who face the world of music even with educational activities. Allow me to thank the Minister; the Undersecretary Lucia Borgonzoni, to whom we truly thank having fought for this bill; as well as the senators of Pistoia - the city of Pistoia expresses five senators in this legislature, some in majority, others in opposition - who have remained united for the good of the city, and this is their honor. This is due to a battle that we are carrying out for autonomy, for federalism, for the valorisation of realities. To make our country great, we should value it, as we are doing for all our cities; in this way we will develop it. We therefore need to recognise a great deal of value to autonomy and federalism, and this is proof of it. I also thank Senators Saponara and Alessandrini who, with their agenda, say that the positive work for Pistoia must be done for other festivals and other competitions that deserve it. I conclude by announcing the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u35	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, on a parliamentary initiative, the measure under consideration ended its examination in the 7th Commission last November, after having undergone two amendments. The first modification is the reconsideration of the commitment of expenditure, from the request of one million euros to 250,000 euros from 2022 for each of the events that are thus intended to enhance and support. The second one concerned enlargement - so to speak - which included together with the Pistoia Blues Festival the Time in Jazz Festival which, founded by Paolo Fresu, among the most famous and celebrated interpreters of the international scene, takes place annually in the Sassarese at the Municipality of Berchidda and in the neighboring centers. The Movimento 5 Stars declares its vote in favour of the measure also in virtue of the particular historical juncture that we are going through because of the effects generated by the pandemic, considering that the pandemic emergency and the emerging norms adopted in the last two years have in particular - as is known - greatly penalized in a sensitive and significant way the cultural initiatives tout court and the live show in particular. This, however, does not prevent us from making a few brief comments, first of all on the nature of the funding from the Single Fund for Performing Arts (FUS). It should be recalled that, during this legislature, the 7th Permanent Commission of the Senate carried out an in-depth investigation into the single fund for entertainment, which revealed the need for the FUS, in the context of state accounting, to be considered an investment and not simply a cost, since each euro spent feeds the value generation chain with a multiplier that is still higher than expenditure. It is clear that, at the same time with such an internal typological reflection of the nature of the Fund and its investments, if the cake remains the same, with the increase of the contributions paid, the slices will be thinner. In summary, new additional resources must be found which contribute significantly to the allocation of the FUS, in order to reduce the fragmentation of State investment. The single entertainment fund is, in fact, the main source of support for bodies, institutions, associations, organizations and companies operating in the field of live entertainment, as well as for the promotion and support of events and initiatives of a national character and importance in Italy or abroad. On the other hand, we are moving in an area, such as culture as a whole, burdened and constantly threatened by both cuts and a continuous lack of resources. It is precisely this lack of resources that should help us to promote legislation and broader reflections, especially at a time when we are at present in danger of seeing the multiplication of expressive languages and the dispersive fragmentation of the conservation function. The reflection of the Movimento 5 Stars on this kind of measures is in summary not so much on the merit, but on the breadth of the perimeter, on the overall design. Even more than the nature of the funding, it affects the targeted and limited nature of the measure in the warned lack of a broader design and project. Sometimes there is the impression that a compass is missing which, however imprecise, may be able to show us a direction. In synergy with government action and in consultation with all stakeholders, it should be possible to bring together and communicate with each other the main international music festivals of quality, also in order to optimize investments and promotional activity in culture, broadening and diversifying the offer and advertising and transmitting at the same time, in the most efficient way, everything that revolves around the diffusion of culture and the quality of the product. In the past legislature - for example - the Movimento 5 Stars proposed to set up a network of festivals to make the most of the immense musical heritage, and of historical-cultural reflection, traceable to the music and opera festivals of our country, providing for unitary and stronger organizations with the promotion of such events and enhancing at the same time the national identity together with that of the traditions of the individual territories. It is in essence what was suggested on the agenda to Mrs Saponara's measure, which was also welcomed in the Commission, which commits the Government, in the wake of the parliamentary initiative, to allocate adequate resources to support other festivals of equal international importance. While we hope that this commitment will not remain a dead letter, the Movimento 5 Stars vote in favour, considering that precisely this synergy, the interrelationship and the ability to dialogue between the different manifestations of quality, in which each one offers a contribution, without however ever giving up its specificity, constitute the only real insurance policy for something that is more than mere survival and in favour of possible future developments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u36	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the draft law as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission, with the following title: Changes to article 2 of the law n. 238, December 20, 2012, for the support and enhancement of the Pistoia Blues Festival and for the realization of the International Time in Jazz Festival. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.49 p.m. and resumed at 6.34 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u37	The President of the Commissions meeting 9a and 12a, Senator Parente, may speak to report on the work of the above-mentioned Commissions on draft law No 2533.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u38	Mr President, the situation is as follows: we have just received the opinions of the Budget Commission, so the Offices are tidying up the files and we still need today's evening to finish the work. It would presumably be possible to consider the possibility of arriving in the Chamber tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u39	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u42	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, in December we unanimously voted on Law 227 of 2021, which follows the European guidelines for the social inclusion of children and adults with disabilities. However, today in Liguria, in order to obtain the first certification, pursuant to Law No 104 of 1992, which allows a disabled child to have economic support and the provision of fundamental school services, such as support, the socio-educational operator (OSE), the socio-assistant operator (OSA) and transport, it takes two hundred and forty-eight days, while the norm provides at most one hundred and twenty. Only in Genoa the waiting practices are six hundred: six hundred children who for more than eight months wait to have these services. Think of those families that have just had shocking news about their children's health and they also have to wait months and months to get what is theirs by law and that is essential for their lives, undermining the school inclusion and the health itself of children, as well as of course undermining their economic situation. All this because in Liguria, but also in many other Italian regions, there are no legal doctors, which are necessary for certification under Law 104, there are no specialized teachers, there are no childhood neuropsychiatricians, speech pedicians, psychomotorists. In this situation, the Region of Liguria, instead of paying the agencies operating rehabilitation therapies, as moreover previews a decision of the Council of State, preferred to spend one million euros for sponsorships on jerseys of footballers and 200,000 euros for a spot of a few seconds. The state is no less, because - as we have also seen today - it has decided, on an agenda, to increase arms expenditure to 2% of GDP, which means billions: 13 billion more per year. Then, I invite all of you to think about this: every euro that we spend on trivial things or even on instruments of death we will take away from the future of the most fragile and our children. Think about it tomorrow when you vote the decree-law on Ukraine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u45	GAUDIANO (M5S). Madam President, I have long been committed to the issue of cooperative credit banks because of their important role in supporting the territorial economy and the specific credit needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, even more so in a period of economic crisis such as that which we are going through. As is well known, following the 2016 cooperative credit reform, the regulatory framework provided for the obligation for cooperative credit banks (BCCs) to set up a banking group and to identify a parent, approving the CCCs to large banking groups. This leads to an increase in compliance, which results in a difficulty for companies to access credit quickly. Never before can we abandon our territories, which need concrete and urgent aid. Cooperative credit banks are the banking institutions closest to the territories, also for the mutual function they exercise and which is recognized as worthy of our Constitution. For this reason I have filed a motion, so that the Government intervenes as soon as possible to enhance the territorial function of the BCC. I believe that the solution can be to guarantee the BCC the possibility of choosing to give rise to an IPS (Institutional protection scheme), i.e. an institutional protection system that ensures legal autonomy for participants and guarantee of solvency in the event of a crisis. IPS can be formed by non-significant entities, which therefore remain under the control of the national authorities, therefore of the Bank of Italy, or by significant entities and therefore, only in this case, subject to the control of the European Central Bank. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-419.ana.u47	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, March 30, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.40 p.m.
