ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 17 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u4	I inform you that on 17 February 2022 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 9 of 17 February 2022 on emergency measures to stop the spread of African swine fever (PSA) (2533).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u5	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders, which met on 16 February and this afternoon, approved changes and additions to the current week's calendar and the new schedule of work until 2 March. In today's sitting, which does not include closing hours, the drawing-up of bill No. 1684 on the establishment of a fund for the organization of memory travel for second grade secondary schools will be discussed. We will then proceed to the examination and vote on the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the proposal to activate a conflict of attribution for acts relating to criminal proceedings against Senator Renzi. In tomorrow's sitting, at 9.30 a.m., the draft law on judicial protection will be discussed in the preparatory procedure for the general elections. At 12 noon, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation will make information on the crisis between Russia and Ukraine. Groups will be able to intervene for 20 minutes. In the afternoon of tomorrow there will be a discussion of the bill on nautical murder and, from the writing site, of the bill on the transparency of the relations between producing companies and health workers, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. With regard to the latter measure - subject to the maintenance of the drafting seat - the Conference of Heads of Group decided to refer the matter back to the Commission for a short time in order to allow the financial coverage to be adjusted in the light of the opinion expressed by the Budget Commission. At the sitting of Thursday, 24 February, which does not include closing hours, the decree-law extends deadlines, at the time of approval in the Chamber of Deputies. After agreement between the Groups, twenty minutes were allocated for the general discussion to the Brothers of Italy Group and ten minutes to the Mixed Group. The question time, already scheduled for 3 p.m. on Thursday 24th, will not take place. The schedule for next week's work includes, starting at 11 a.m. on Wednesday 2 March, the discussion of the decree-law on the fight against the Covid emergency in workplaces and schools, which is being examined in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met on 16 February and in the afternoon of today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current week's calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 2 March: [[Tuesday, February 22 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law no. 1684 - Crossroads in memory (from the writing site) - Doc. XVI, point 9 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the proposal to activate a conflict of attribution for acts relating to criminal proceedings against Senator Renzi]] [[Wednesday 23 February h. 9.30 am - Drawing of law n. 2390 - Judicial protection in the preparatory procedure for the general elections - Information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the crisis between Russia and Ukraine (Wednesday 23, 12 noon) - Drawing of law n. 1402 - Nautical murder - Drawing of law n. 1201 - Transparency of relations between producing companies, health workers and health organisations (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing up office) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 228/2021, Extension of terms (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (scade on 28 February) Thursday 24 " h. 9.30 am]] Amendments to draft law No 1402 (Nautical murder) should be tabled no later than 8 p.m. on Tuesday 22 February. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No... (Decree-Law No 228/2021, Extension of time limits) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Wednesday, March 2, h. 11 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 1, Contrast of emergency COVID in workplaces and schools (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on March 8)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 1, Covid counter emergency in workplaces and schools) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 228/2021, Extension of time limits) (Groups 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Mixed 10' FdI 20']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 1, Covid emergency contrast in workplaces and schools) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 42' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 30' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 1684. The rapporteur, Senator Saponara, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, the Memory Travel Fund, very briefly, is the title of the bill that we are called upon to dismiss in this House today after the examination in the 7th Commission. From the title, the bill may appear or suggest something fascinating and romantic, but in reality it intends to strengthen Law No 211 of 20 July 2000, with which the Day of Memory was established, in memory of the extermination and persecution of the Jewish people and the Italian military and political deportees in the Nazi camps. To understand and understand it better, it is worth briefly retracing the stages that led to the establishment of a day dedicated to the memory of the shoah - a Hebrew term by which the extermination of the Jews victims of the Nazi genocide is indicated - identified on January 27, as the day of the liberation of the concentration camp in Auschwitz. It is from 1960, with a renewal of school programs, that we begin to embark on the path of the recovery of memory and the historiographical debates on subjects of deportation and shoah take on some importance, also for the resonance aroused by important trials in Germany against the Nazi executioners and the success of audiences of fundamental literary testimonies on the shoah, such as the books of Primo Levi and Anna Frank, which become real classic beds and studied also in schools. The ministerial decree of 4 November 1996 n. 682 dictated changes to the history programs in schools of every order and grade, broadening the attention on the facts of the twentieth century and giving the start, from that moment, to a particular attention to the racial laws, to the relations between fascism and deportation, to the history of the concentration camps, leading to the development of numerous projects that often end with travels in the places of memory and in the aforementioned fields. From then on, the use of testimony has become a fundamental element in the teaching of the shoah. The encounter with the witness has always been fundamental, because it creates a huge empathy and gives students the opportunity to touch history and to embark on a path of knowledge capable of affecting their lives in a lasting way, trying to avoid the risk of emotion passing and remaining nothing of what has been heard and learned. Finally, in 2000 the institution of Memory Day, with Law No. 211 of 2000, has encouraged more and more school initiatives, the protagonists of which have often been the survivors with their stories of imprisonment. [[Brusio]] Mr President, I am sorry, but there is a lot of confusion; this is something I think everyone is interested in.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u9	You're right, Senator. I call on the House to maintain at least one low tone in order to allow the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u10	Mr Saponara, rapporteur. While it is true that the direct listening of the witnesses who survived that hell is fundamental in order to move the consciences of the young, it is equally true that with the passing of the years those same witnesses are less and less, so the direct vision of the places becomes even more important, in order to keep alive the memory of the facts. From this last consideration came the need to offer students a greater opportunity to visit them, because those places can speak, they can tell the tragedy of those who have suffered enormous atrocities in them and of those who, while surviving them, are no longer there. It is therefore the aim of the bill today in this House to make it easier for young people to reflect on the sad chapter of history. The draft law consists of only one article, modulated according to the indications of the opinion of the 5th Commission. This article announces the above-mentioned Law No 211 of 20 July 2000, with the establishment, at the Ministry of Education, of a fund with a budget of one million euros for each of the years 2022, 2023 and 2024, to promote and encourage, while respecting school autonomy, the memory trips to Nazi concentration camps for students of the last two years of secondary schools of second degree, in order to mature the civic consciousness of the new generations with respect to the extreme suffering suffered by the Jewish people during the Nazi persecution of the shoah. It will therefore always be up to the Ministry of Education, with its own decree to be adopted within ninety days of the entry into force of the law, to define the modalities of use of the resources and to determine the type of financial expenses. On the other hand, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has the task, with its own decree, of making the necessary changes in the budget. As rapporteur for the measure, I presented an agenda to the Commission, accepted by the Government, with the invitation to assess the need to include in the implementing decree the increase, if possible, in the years of this fund and to ensure that at least 40% of these resources are allocated primarily to the organization of memory travel by secondary schools of second degree located in areas disadvantaged or characterized by the presence of students in a state of social distress; and, finally, to provide forms of awareness to the organization of memory travels and other forms of deepening of the history of the shoah addressed to schools that have not organized such trips in the previous three years. This, in summary, is the content of the bill. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Daisy Pirovano, who, as soon as she signed the bill, showed great sensitivity to this issue, and of course the entire Lega Group, who signed it. I thank the President of the 7th Commission, Senator Riccardo Nencini, and all my fellow Commission senators who have supported and shared the bill and its process. Finally, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Barbara Floridia, for his willingness to accompany us until the end of this process, both in the Commission and today in this House, where I hope that the House will vote unanimously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u11	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank the 7th Commission, the rapporteur and the President of the Commission. I believe that cultivating memory is fundamental: this is recognized and we all know it. But in this measure, although seemingly small, the thought of providing schools with the economic tools to enable young people to take advantage of these opportunities to cultivate memory, I think has been an excellent goal achieved by the Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u13	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Colleagues, may I kindly ask for some silence when the other colleagues are speaking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u16	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to publicly thank Senator Saponara for the excellent work she has done, just as I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission who I have the privilege of presiding over. The discussion of this bill, even if it is a measure that we can define as minor, is one of those rare cases through which a new part of the country's history passes. A great Frenchman, Renan, believed that the nations were born when there is common feeling and the common feeling happens only on fundamental values. The fact that the Commission and - as I hope and hope - today also want to write the end word about the founding values of Italian society and our nation regarding the tragedy and tragedy that took place between 1940 and 1945 is an important story that, through the rapporteur, the Senate will begin to write. There is, however, a second consideration, which is the daughter of the first, in the sense that the choice made by some regions, starting with my many years ago - Tuscany - to bring students to see and touch with hand what happened between 1940 and 1945 is the correct way because memory does not repeat those tragedies. Putting tragedy in the eyes is one of the best and most effective ways for prejudice to fall and, above all, why not follow the crowd when it takes a road that then, in the end, represents the wrong destiny of large and small communities. The question that we still have to ask ourselves today, to which a different and not conclusive answer has been given by historians, sociologists and psychologists, is why Europe then fell into that tragedy. We are talking about a Europe that represented a beacon in universal civilization from every point of view, in the history of literature, visual arts and music. Yet that Europe became the mother of an endless tragedy, which had few equals in the history of humanity. It is significant that no one saw, not even among the great intellectuals of the time. There was only one who, in 1939, foretold what would happen and died of suicide: it was Benjamin, Spain. On the other hand, he did not see Sartre, who, on the very day that Hitler invaded Warsaw and opened the first concentration camp, spoke at the Paris station with Simone De Beauvoir about his last conquest, Wanda's seduction. Nor did Marlene Dietrich see that, from a German beach, she wrote in her diary: It is a week indolent, of sunshine, of baths, of alcohol and Hitler had already invaded Poland. I remember this because it is not true that history does not repeat itself. History repeats a part of its destiny in a different way, because times change and times have different tools with which history repeats itself, but it is by no means true that it does not repeat itself. This is not the time - and I have concluded - in which we can risk returning to that bitter and dramatic season. This, however, is a time, a season in which the ease of language, prejudice, work in social - and not only this - and above all - I would like to say - superficiality often leads us to hasten judgments of diversity that we must fight fiercely. One of our colleagues was right, a great poet and senator for a few weeks - his name was Mario Luzi - when he argued, with an extraordinary poem, that freedom is a gym in which you have to go every day. If you don't go every day, he dies, and since he dies every day, you don't realize he dies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u19	BARBARO (FdI). Mr President, it would be a matter of urgency to open this explanation of vote in advance with some reflections on the small amount of money that has been allocated to allow the journey of memory. This was also said earlier by Undersecretary Floridia, referring to that small appropriation which marked the draft law under consideration. We believe, however, that it is more appropriate to focus on the enormous symbolic scope of the provision, on which, of course, we, the Brothers of Italy, also want to make our contribution. The bill, in the news of Law No. 211 of 2000, which established Memory Day, proposed the theme of raising awareness on issues related to intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence. In this sense the measure wanted to encourage and promote the journeys of memory in the places where the most heinous barbarism of persecution was carried out. The journeys of memory in the Nazi concentration camps by secondary school students of second degree must contribute to forming, in the maturation of the critical consciousness of our children, a complete determination to be guardians of freedom, in order never again to repeat such abomination of man against man, and, moreover, to never again to practice despotism, authoritarianism and tyranny. In those camps of detention and extermination the ferocious rite of fanatic hatred, of bieco racism, of violent and degrading vileness was celebrated. Those places are today a permanent monument to the value of freedom, the lack of which can degenerate until the establishment of death camps. Each of those fields was technically a governmental structure, framed in a state bureaucracy and entrusted to men of the State, charged with pursuing a criminal collective interest of the public administration. Let us reflect on this fact: largely the inmates of those camps were themselves German citizens, not captured enemies. Their own state, their institutions and government had decided that they did not deserve to live in society and should be excluded and persecuted from it, without any other fault than simply exist. This will never have to happen again and again. Nazi concentration camps, as well as the gulags of Soviet Russia, up to structures that still exist in contemporary authoritarian regimes, may differ on the type of prisoners, deported for racial, religious or political reasons, but in common they still have one thing: the brutality of totalitarianism. In announcing the favorable vote of the Parliamentary Group, Brothers of Italy, I also personally wish to share the importance of this bill, with the hope that it will genuinely contribute to offering the new generations intimate, profound and lasting elements of reflection. It is absolutely right to show deep respect for the suffering suffered by the Jewish people during the persecution of the shoah and it is ethically necessary that, in the evolutionary age, institutions, starting from school, offer the Italians of the future the opportunity to understand how motivated and important this respect is. It is in the sleep of public conscience that dictatorships mature. It is fundamental, but it is not enough, to remember and celebrate all those who have been persecuted. We also need an effective analysis, also the result of the physical experience of traveling to the places of these persecutions, in order to internalize to the full the dangers of fanaticism and fundamentalism, evils of the past time that we have not yet managed to eradicate. The hatred of the camps of extermination against the Jews, in its infinite tragicity, so many years later can transform those places that were the scene of death into new altars of freedom, to be visited with congenial respect. From these journeys young people are formed who understand the importance of freedom and are always ready to defend it. It is true, as my colleague, the first signatory of this law, wrote in her report: places can speak. It is necessary to have the predisposition and sensitivity to know how to listen. The history of man gives us the voice of the many places that speak of suffering, of massacre, of unarmed victims and of ruthless executioners. The journeys of memory are therefore promoted, favored, encouraged and increasingly practiced. But let me hope that they will not be confined to a form of tragic death tourism. The school devotes itself to the analysis and study of the facts that led to such atrocities and knows how to educate and form the students' civil conscience both towards respectful remembrance and also towards the defense of freedom, the most supreme among the goods. May I have a quotation from the work "If this is a man" by Primo Levi: The German lagers constitute something unique in the bloody history of humanity: to the ancient purpose of eliminating or terrifying political opponents, they flanked a modern and monstrous purpose, that of erasing entire peoples and cultures from the world. Let this ever happen again. In confirming, therefore, without hesitation, the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy, it seems also necessary to emphasize that our party has always stood up against all forms of anti-Semitism present in Europe. As a member of the Party of European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) - grouping which among others also enjoys the support of the Israeli party of the Likud - Brothers of Italy has a clear and clear position of condemnation of anti-Semitism, as well as any other form of racism and xenophobia. In Italy, our party has repeatedly denounced the inability to see anti-Semitism in its entirety. It is worth remembering that Brothers of Italy presented a motion, which lies forgotten in the Senate, in order to condemn all forms of anti-Semitism, that of the extreme right as that of the extreme left, which hides behind the hatred for Israel, and above all that of the Islamist matrix. Then I also take the opportunity to take up some of the passages of that motion - I do not want to read it all - important and fundamental that I want to leave to the acts of this explanation of vote. I read from the premises: "To date there is a contemporary anti-Semitism, which takes different forms, whose condemnation must be reaffirmed firmly and without any form of reluctance." In the considerations of the motion we refer to several examples of both historical and political character, which have allowed its construction and are reported with extreme fidelity: "anti-Semitism manifests itself in different forms. In May 2017 Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO and national director of the Anti-Defamation League, denounced that millions of anti-Semitic messages constantly spread on "Twitter" negative stereotypes and conspiracy about Jews; the study center "Machiavelli" published and released, on September 22, 2018, the report "Anti-Semitism in contemporary Europe" realized by Fiamma Nirenstein, in which it is highlighted as "the old anti-Semitic stylems" of the past "if added today of new ones, disguised as criticism of Israel but actually motivated by hatred towards Jews as such," and currently attributable to three matrixes: Islamic fundamentalism; some extreme left fringes; some extreme right movements; in the report is emphasized as to weigh, today, is especially "anti-Semitism of Islamic origin, whose origin sinks in religious hatred and nourishes of Islamist ideology." Much more important is the "Report on the trends and episodes of anti-Semitism of 2017," presented by the Israeli minister of the Diaspora Naftali Bennett, who during the Day of Memory said: The refugee population in Europe has become a risk factor for the Jewish community and over 50% of refugees in Western Europe support anti-Semitic views. Finally, as underlined by the "Report on the trends and episodes of anti-Semitism in 2018" presented by the Israeli Government on 27 January 2019, the phenomenon of anti-Semitism also sees a sort of pact between Islamic fundamentalism and fringes of the extreme left, "whose interests are apparently incompatible, but which cooperate against Israel and the Jews." I start with the conclusions, always recalling the content of the motion and the commitment to the Government to take all appropriate initiatives. The Brothers of Italy Group continues to think that the best way to remember the atrocity of the Holocaust is to call things by their name and recognize anti-Semitism in all its forms, without omerty or political calculations. For the reasons I have just mentioned, I declare on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group the vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u22	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Saponara, and all the Members who supported this bill, and in particular her first signatory, Senator Daisy Pirovano, with whom we share important responsibilities in the Commission against all discrimination and hatred incitement, which is strongly wanted by Liliana Segre. With Senator Pirovano, several times in recent months we have talked about this law, its value and its meaning in the time we live in. The Democratic Party Group has immediately strongly supported this bill, which has finally arrived in the Senate Hall today, aimed at establishing a fund to be dedicated to memory travels, which will allow more and more girls and boys in our schools to visit emblematic places, places of martyrdom and abomination, sacred places to our civil conscience of Italians and Europeans. In the Nazi extermination camps the absolute crime was committed and it was a political crime, planned and carried out with heinous meticulousness. The shoah was the abomination of the will of power and oppression that becomes the will of extermination of an entire people, the Jewish people. In those camps millions of Jews, Roma, synths, political deportees, homosexuals, military interneds died. In those camps the whole of humanity died and we have a duty to know and to remember what it was. In thinking about all this, we get a vertigo in the face of a horror that seems unspeakable, that of the shoah, an enormity that leaves us terrified. Instead, we have a duty to find words and actions to redeem ourselves from that horror. We have a duty of memory. Because memory sets free, said Liliana Segre, enclosing in this warning her choice of life and witness and a moral and civil precept for each of us, for each person. I think, President, that the numbers tattooed on Liliana's arm aren't just engraved on her body, but are also open wounds for each of us. Memory is a link between generations, and this is what this law is for. It is a bond that builds identity, belonging, sense of community. Our democracy needs historical and political memory, which is awareness and citizenship. In our country, there has long been a sort of removal of what was the shoah, of what was the Italian story in the wider dimension of the shoah. The racial and racist laws of 1938 were the lowest point in our history, there was complicity in the shoah and it is the most dramatic of the historical responsibilities of fascism. It is a past and a responsibility that concerns us. Italy was able to recover from the material and moral ruins of Fascism with the civil recovery of the Resistance, with the writing of our Republican Constitution, which has as its foundation the principles of equality, of non-discrimination, of inviolable respect for human dignity. They are not abstract principles; it is daily life, it is the possibility of emancipating oneself, of expressing oneself, of realizing one's own project of life, whatever the color of the skin, the religious creed, the political ideality, the sexual orientation. We live - in today's time - a revival of hate speech, with pervasiveness linked to the capacity for propagation in the network; a language of hatred directed against minorities that, most of the time, starts from organized campaigns; and it is a poison that corrodes our democracy, coexistence, cohesion, and that has nothing to do with the social conflict or the political debate, even harsh, which instead are the fulcrum of democratic vitality. President, the antidote to all this is memory, the knowledge of history that teaches us to distinguish wrongs and reasons, not to disperse them in an indistinct sense, because a country without memory is a country that has no future, and it is in classrooms every day that we learn democracy; it is there that we learn to live, above all in the awareness of respect for the other, reciprocity. There can be no free zone on the net or off the net, for verbal insults or violence, because they are the antechamber of discrimination, because they carry the subtle poison of the custom and trivialization of hatred, which is all the more dangerous because it re-emerges stereotypes, prejudices and false narratives that feed on art resentments. The case of anti-Semitism is the most paradigmatic. It has re-emerged violently in these months of pandemics, in a growing of falsehood, conspiracy, conspiracy. We have seen unacceptable situations: the no vax scene with the combination between deportation and the green pass is a case of school of trivialization of the shoah, of negationism, of reversal of reality, of derision. There is always a point of conjunction between manipulation and discrimination, and the antidote is memory, a shared civil consciousness: the awareness that arises in feeling part of a collective destiny and not just individual. President, in the basement of the central station of Milan, next to what was a post office, there is Binario 21, from where thousands were led by force in the plummeted trains, and from those convoys then translated into the extermination camps, sent to die. In his testimony Liliana Segre says that on the way from the prison to the station of Milan nobody wanted to see; the most turned their eyes, turned their backs and their conscience. President, today the Binary 21 is the memorial of the shoah and Liliana Segre wanted that on that wall, in front of all those who arrive, there was written - very large - the word "indifference". Indifference can also kill a democracy. Mr President, I think that this measure serves to keep a civil feeling alive and nurture: the memory that can become participation and sharing. I think that the law we are about to pass is our duty to those who have never returned from those extermination camps is a duty to the new generations who will continue to build our Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u25	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, the presenters and also the Commission for their work on this bill, which is very important, and not just because it has been shared by everyone. In fact, I would like to remind you that it completes the original law, which saw the establishment of the Day of Memory. Since then, many students, many teachers, many schools, many Regions and municipalities have started a journey, which has been absolutely fundamental in recent years. The journey of memory, of going to Auschwitz in the concentration camps, is a path that has been accompanied by many of the survivors, such as Piero Terracina. Together with the boys, and with great pain, they returned to those places and made available to the children themselves an experience of terrible pain. For so many years many of them have never even wanted to talk about it. This path has begun, with the boys and with them, and I say it because those places can speak to the heart and mind. They may not only be a symbol, but they can also make people fully understand what has happened. To be faced with what, in the terrible history of the twentieth century, is absolute evil can make us understand what has happened. In the last parliamentary term, the draft law was discussed in this House, among other things very much discussed, on the question of negationism. The story of negationism is not resolved, as many of us have thought. In fact, I think that memory travel should not only concern schools, but should perhaps be extended to the major audience, in order to make sure that what happened in those places is touched with hands. What has happened is that men have been able to conceive and plan the extermination of other people, considering them to be inferior beings. This is what happened and, since it happened, it can happen again. It is not true that that absolute evil has been wiped out once and forever by history. This is the fundamental function of the journey of memory, which resides not only in the journey, but also in the journey, in the participation, in the work that is done within the schools themselves. This is very important for us and for our country, because racial laws have left a terrible mark in the history of our country. Let us never forget what the fascist regime was, which made a choice that it could not make; a choice that it left in our world, in that of school, university, culture, indelible traces and accompanied and managed deportations in our cities: in my city, that of 16 October. Returning to technicality, the resources are certainly not many, but it is very important that the fund has been established, as it means that there is an ability on the part of the institutions to put themselves at the service of increasing a collective consciousness at a time like the present. I said before: because it happened, it can happen again. We must not underestimate, as is often the case (it has been done even in the last two terrible years that we have lived), the campaigns of hatred and incitement to racism, the conspiracy and anti-Semitism that, unfortunately, like a karst river always tries to emerge again in the history of humanity with absurd thesis on plots and plutocracies. All the more so, at this very moment in history, when social media can become an even more dangerous instrument of great expansion to convey the messages of hatred and racism, it is essential that our school and institutions are at the service of a capacity not only for the transmission of memory but for growth and collective consciousness. In my opinion, beyond the funds that can be increased every year, this is the deep meaning of the measure under consideration, which - I repeat - completes the institution of the Memory Day; one day for our country, the Italian school and tens of thousands of young people who went to Auschwitz in the concentration camps, it was a very strong element of growth, consciousness and participation. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for the work they have done. In conclusion, I announce the favorable vote of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u28	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in expressing the support of Forza Italia, I confirm and try to explain what I think about it and which is also the result of discussions between my party colleagues and my political and administrative activity and which I hope will be in the sharing of my colleagues. I would also like to express some ideas in the wake of the extraordinary Commission's work on combating intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence, chaired by the Senator Segre, of which I am a member. Law No 211 of 20 July 2000 established on 27 January each year the Day of Memory in memory of the extermination and persecution of the Jewish people and the Italian military and political deportees in the Nazi camps. Talking about this reminds me when as a child I heard from the survivors about the terrible facts that had happened to them as Jews or military. Most of them were Alpines who had been taken to the battlefields on 8 September. I remember it seemed impossible and unlikely. I was asking questions to the point where, when I heard the answers, my throat was cramped and, child, I couldn't talk anymore. In the following years the survivors told something more: books, movies and debates arrived and the feeling I had was that they were treated not as beasts (because the beasts treat themselves well), but in an inhuman way. There has been the madness of a people, a Continent - Europe - and Germany. In a moment of weakness of faith it seems that it is possible to say that God had turned on the other side. In my opinion, no negationism is possible: saying ridiculous is too little because it is a very serious and even actionable attitude. In the same way, the negations of foibe and gulag are equally to be condemned. Human reality always surpasses fantasy. Unlimited violence to annihilate the Jewish people as the cause of all the evils of history: this is what Hitler thought, some around him and all those who were subjugated by his crazy ideas. Another component was revenge on the Italians who had betrayed. And, then, forced labor, or death through methods of suffering that only perverse minds could invent, especially from the weakest, such as women and children. Now, how can we pass on what has happened so that memory enlightens the mind? Certainly, following the establishment of the Memorial Day, the ceremonies that were already held have increased. Solemn and public ceremonies, accompanied by the publication of books, films and education of the school. The visits to the concentration camps of Auschwitz (of which I remember on January 27 the anniversary of the demolition of its gate), Mauthausen, Dachau, Buchenwald and others, is a moment that in fact obliges those who visit them, adults or young people, to confront history and what happened there. Having further allocated a small fund that can serve as a contribution to travel and can become significant if well used, by decree of the Ministry of Education, so that the pupils of the last two years of high school increase the number of visits, I think it is a wise decision of Parliament all the more so in these days when the winds of war, whatever it is, come back to blow. Such winds do not blow well because war is always to be condemned. So that we do not repeat in any form what happened in those years, let us make this effort and renew its remembrance on today's date. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u31	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, how much is human life worth? You can measure it in gold teeth to make bars, you can measure it in hair to make mattresses, you can measure it in ashes to make fertilizers. These are the things we see with our own eyes when we go to the concentration camps. Two years ago, on 27 January 2020, I spoke in this House on the occasion of Memory Day to present the motion and at the same time the relevant bill. A few days later, on February 22, 2020, the Covid arrived in Bergamo and I, as mayor, was absent from the Assembly for a long time to manage the emergency. The bill remained frozen in the middle of the pandemic, but on the way, I realized that it had become even more important for what happened in these two years. How much is a human life worth? 1,500 lire for a Jewish child, 3,000 lire for a woman, 5,000 for a man; that's the amount that those in our country denounced the Jews to send them to the concentration camps. At Auschwitz four huge gas chambers, which were able to kill in the best days for them up to 6,000 people, were the pride of Rudolf Hess. An economy, the German economy, which prospered not only on forced labour in the camps, but also on the very death of the Jews. Jews who were betrayed by the government that was to protect them. How much is a human life worth? How many GDP points are we willing to lose to save lives? According to some economists, a man's value is calculated on the basis of his country's GDP. In Italy a human life is worth 4.7 million dollars, at Bermuda 15,5, in Burundi only 45,000. It seems that this tendency to quantify the value of life on the basis of the ability to produce income derives from slavery, from the plantations of South Carolina in 1740. Disabled people were also an economic burden for the Nazis and they also found death in concentration camps. For two years I have been wondering how much a human life is worth; two years in which the phenomena of hate incitement have increased in a worrying way also towards the Jews. For someone still today in the gas chambers they showered; for someone the shoah is an invention; for someone they died, but not just like that and not so many; for someone in the Bergamo military truck there were empty coffins. It seems that in every historical epoch the logic of negationism is to reverse cause with effect, because, according to the negationists of the shoah, the Allies needed the myth of the Holocaust to justify the occupation of Germany in 1945. I say this just to give an example, but there would be many more. Similarly, limiting individual freedom to prevent the whole country from suffering like my people, has been translated into a phrase of the kind: with the Covid's excuse this law has been made. In fact, denying a people what caused deep suffering is something inhuman, that increases pain, amplifies it and does not allow to heal wounds. Denialism, however, is not only ignorance, but above all fear, because it is a classic defence mechanism: psychological denial, the fear that man can really be capable of such atrocities, which is better to deny. But man is really capable of it. Is it afraid that if it were true, if one day someone woke up and said he wanted to exterminate all those with brown hair, a person with brown hair how could he fight against those who want to destroy it? Simply remembering that courage is what changes the destiny of a people, because evil men have always been there and will always be there, because a madman can wake up one day and be followed by others who, perhaps for political, economic, or personal interests, give him rope without even realizing where he is going, of what tragedy he is creating. In every age we are always busy doing something else, having more and more things or having more and more likes, while memory is the only thing we have to make history plot an experience of thousands of years and it is impossible for each of us to keep it if it is not handed down by generations. [[Applause]] Young people will be our salvation, perhaps even some of those who have been or who will travel to the concentration camps, because it is enough that only one understands that it has really happened and can happen again. However, before giving them wings to fly, as this Parliament should do by law-making with our Government, they must reach the depths of the abyss of the human soul and see clearly what can happen and what they might have to defend in the future, from what they might have to defend their loved ones. Today I learned by chance that this very day Virginia Gattegno, a survivor of Auschwitz, was missing, was born in Rome in 1923. She was ninety-eight years old, her family was exterminated, only her sister Lea survived. This woman who left us on this very day lived in Venice, where she had moved after the war and where she was a teacher, having dedicated her whole life to teaching children, who had an exceptional teacher. I would like to read his poem (because she was also a poet) entitled "Forget Auschwitz": I wish my daughters had a happy life, I would like a God to wait for me at the end of my life, but above all I would like to forget Auschwitz, but I can't, I can't. Instead, we must not forget and we must ensure that, when there is no longer even the last of the survivors, someone carries on the memory not only in the books, but with the testimonies and with the trips on the spot. During this terrible pandemic I had the enormous fortune to personally meet Senator Segre, with whom we collaborate in the Commission of which I have the honour of being Vice President. I don't like to look at people for the role they have, for the officiality and for the whole construction that is done around a human being. But as such, Senator Segre is an example to me of how you can stay happy with a huge pain inside, how you can stay smiling and make humor with a great intelligence. This means that evil becomes a warning (the evil that someone has suffered and the pain that someone has experienced) and that you dedicate your life, a part of your life, to ensure that others do not feel what you have felt. I would like to thank Mrs Saponara, the whole 7th Commission and the undersecretary of Floridia. Although the examination of this bill has been interrupted because of the Covid, it is resumed quickly and I am proud to declare the vote in favour on behalf of my Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u34	DE LUCIA (M5S). Madam President, today I will have someone else speak through me in this House. Now you'll understand why. This trip was important to me: so many different and contrasting emotions. I think it's been one of the most significant facts in my life and I'll carry it in my heart. Before I arrived, I heard stories, many told me: it's heavy, you'll cry and you'll feel terrible. I didn't cry, but it doesn't mean that what I saw didn't impress me. Even though I wasn't born at that time, I felt guilty and helpless, I was full of anger at so much cruelty to people who hadn't done anything and I wondered several times: what if it happened to me? I had the chills every time the guides talked. In the gas chamber my heart went up my throat, I really didn't know what to think and just entering it gave me a feeling of total impotence. But it was not only that visit that created a sense of strong discomfort, impotence, an injustice that is renewed whenever someone denies what happened, questiones and resizes it. It was one of the most heinous horrors of the war and recognizing it is the least we can do; do not forget, keep alive the memory of that horror, so that it never happens again. Yet, despite seeing with my own eyes what they had built with willful ferocity, I keep telling myself: it cannot be true, it cannot be true. No one should suffer so much, no one should live such suffering, no one deserves to lose their humanity in this way. It was an atrocity. Until you enter a concentration camp and listen to the victims' family, you cannot understand what really happened. I have once again understood the importance of life, to which it is indispensable to give the right weight. I am glad that the professors have accompanied us, supporting us in this important phase of knowledge. I would recommend this trip to all students, because it changes the vision of history, which is not usually explained in this detail. In fact, I would make it mandatory, because better than so many classes in class [[Applause]] , which probably, given what many people still think today, is not enough to explain the horror that has been perpetrated against those who have not been able to defend themselves and who have not been defended. This short writing is by Sara, a girl from a high school in Perugia who has been back from a trip to Auschwitz, Poland, and Birkenau for two days. With her also Nico, a classmate who in a few lines was even clearer: It was a unique experience for me, a journey that made me realize the fortunes we have today, the freedoms we enjoy, for which many people have lost their lives. It will be an experience that I will never stop telling, because only through memory can we be better people. I believe that what these two young people have told us, of a group of three hundred from many Italian schools, is worth more than any other consideration and evaluation on this bill on the travels of memory. Well, any teacher can consider that students discover interest in history as a school subject, when they understand that memory is a living thing, capable of interacting with the fundamental choices of life, to which each person can contribute with his own personal contribution, when they understand, that is, that memory is social construction. The training phase, therefore, assumes an important and decisive value, if it is lived with a more tangible emotional participation. Of course, understanding the historical texts proposed by our schools is crucial, but if we associate them with an immersion in reality, it is not a bad thing. Obviously in the school the development of historical knowledge also concerns the processes, transformations and events that have led to today's world, but that does not mean that being able to search through the walls of the facts really happened is preferable. Moreover, it is recognized by all that the recourse to witness has become a fundamental element in the field of teaching, especially in the study of contemporary history, in which questions such as the shoah and the Holocaust must be deepened. The purpose of this draft law is precisely to encourage the travel of memory, so that schools can offer students this type of experience, as much more formative - let me tell you - than any lessons on the subject. Certainly the immersive visits to the concentration camps will have to be supported by a very careful and meticulous preparatory path, in which probably the interweaving with the other disciplines could be fundamental. It is a journey, in fact already carried out by the celebrations of the Day of Memory, in memory of the extermination and persecution of the Jewish people and the Italian military and political deportees in the Nazi camps, on which we are going to news today. As Movimento 5 Stars we believe it is essential to set up this fund under the Ministry of Education. (17.42) (Followed by Mr de Lucia). I close with a solicitation that comes from listening to an interesting speech by the historian Alessandro Barbero, according to which history and memory are two completely different things, implying, however, that all too often history intends to reconstruct the truth. In the case of the Holocaust it is different: the truth is tangible, it can be found, the memory is still alive and can tell. That is also why it makes sense to approve this measure. For all that said, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I voted in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u35	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u36	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 9. The Junta decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the activation of a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, pursuant to Article 134 of the Constitution, against the competent judicial authority. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Modena, whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is relevant, in the light of the report we are examining today, is the central issue, which must be precisely identified. Today we are discussing the injury of the powers of the Senate, therefore of the injury regardless of the use as proof of the... [[Brusio. References by the President]] As I said, what needs to be done today is to be able to identify the substantive point we are going to discuss, which is the damage to the powers of the Senate. In essence, let's discuss the injury that the Senate has or would have suffered, regardless of the use as evidence of a number of elements against Senator Renzi. This is a fundamental point of the reasoning: the attribution understood as injury to the prerogatives and powers of the Senate. From this point of view, it is considered that a prior request for authorisation by the judicial authority was necessary and, consequently, that the injury to the attribution exists as there was no prior authorisation required. The facts, described in the distributed report, began with a letter received on 7 October 2021, when Senator Renzi raised a question concerning Article 68 of the Constitution, as I said earlier, and in particular the third paragraph of that article. The question then initially examined the petition by which Senator Renzi's defenders submitted to the Deputy Prosecutor a formal notice to refrain from carrying out any investigative activity, which precluded both the provisions of Article 68 of the Constitution and Article 4 of Constitutional Law No 140 of 2003, as well as the use of conversations and correspondence. Senator Renzi, in essence, had asked the presidency of the Senate to put in place everything necessary for the restoration and protection of the guarantees of constitutional rights enshrined in Article 68 and Law No 140 of 2003. The President of the Senate transferred to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities a copy of the letter with which the prosecutor of the Republic of the court of Florence represented his total availability. In particular, Senator Renzi believed that the Senate and the Junta should be asked to examine the fact that conversations, between parliamentarians and non-parliamentarians, which were the subject of the petition, would be used without prior authorization. The senator reported a series of documents and facts that were analyzed by the Junta and also on several occasions, in the sense that some documents had been presented in a session, then Senator Renzi was heard by the Junta and then further integrated the documentation. The documentation that finds has been that relating to the use of a series of messages, the famous messages WhatsApp, with an entrepreneur, Vincenzo Ugo Manes, on the occasion of a trip to Washington of Senator Renzi, which was considered by the same a clear violation of the parliamentary prerogatives. On 4 November 2021, the President of the Senate sent further documentation, always sent by Senator Renzi, which attached in particular the correspondence between himself and Dr. Ugo Manes between 3 and 4 June 2018 and detectable in a faldon of acts relating to the closure of the survey 415- bis. In addition, he produced correspondence with third parties, such as Dr. Carrai, and the record of the Judicial Police of 12 June 2020, where it was found that his statement had been fully exposed. The Junta addressed the issue at several sessions and by a majority decided to propose to the Assembly the activation, against the competent judicial authority, of the conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court, because both the interceptions of conversations or communications, and the seizure of correspondence against the members of the Parliament are governed by the third paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, which stipulates the necessity of the authorization of the Chamber to which the parliamentarians belong. As regards the seizure of correspondence, in particular Article 4, paragraph 1 of Law No 140 in 2003 presupposes a prior authorization power by the competent Chamber, which must be activated by the judicial authority with a request for authorisation to carry out the seizure. This operating form therefore presupposes an authorisation to be obtained ex ante and therefore before the seizure of correspondence. Article 6 of Law No 140 of 2003 provides instead for the cases of interception on non-parliamentary third party telephone users the form of the ex post authorization, i.e. after the completion of the collection, which can be issued for the cases in which the interception of the parliamentarians is fortuitous or occasional, being the direction of the act of investigation addressed exclusively to third parties. This procedural model, unlike that provided for in Article 4, presupposes an authorisation requested ex post whenever the judicial authority wishes to use these evidence in relation to the Member of Parliament. The operating scheme in question, therefore, does not apply to the seizure of correspondence, which is mentioned in Article 4 but not in Article 6 of Law No 140. In other words, the classification of a specific case in the context of the seizure of correspondence implies the applicability or not of the procedural model provided for in Article 6. For the interceptions we have two operating modalities: either an ex ante authorization for the direct ones, i.e. carried out on the users of the parliamentarians, or an ex post authorization for the indirect ones, i.e. carried out on third party users, but for the seizure of correspondence the applicable procedural form is only that of Article 4, i.e. of an ex ante authorization and of course when the electronic correspondence is found on the cell phone seized to a non-parliamentary third party the judicial authority, if it is aware of the presence of an electronic correspondence with a senator, must send the request to the Senate and on this we have already had in merit the precedent of Senator Armando Siri. In fact, when it was necessary to request the seizure of the emails and chats contained in Armando Siri's Iphone, the judicial authority requested it in a preventive form. The concept of correspondence has undergone a technological evolution compared to the traditional one, that is the paper format, so we have added forms of correspondence that are those of today: emails, SMS messages WhatsApp. The written or oral form, in this changed technological context, is the main criterion suitable to distinguish the interceptions of telephone or conversation communications, understood as oral conversations, from the seizure of correspondence which, as such, presupposes written material to be seized. For these reasons a prior authorization of the Senate is necessary, otherwise the same is harmed in its own attributions. The Giunta therefore considered that the prior authorization of the competent Chamber was necessary, regardless of the circumstance of the use or not of the aforementioned evidence against the parliamentarians, and, at the session of 14 December 2021, resolved by a majority to propose the activation - against the competent judicial authority - of a conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court, as it had never been authorized by the Senate to use the mails and messages WhatsApp by the judicial authority without having made a prior request for authorisation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u38	I declare the debate open. Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u39	Mr President of the Senate, members of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Council, its President and the rapporteur for the work they have done which - as Mr Modena pointed out - has also led to my hearing. February 22, 2022 is a palindrome day: the numbers can be read in both directions, but the concept does not change. Reality, however, is not palindroma: it is not that reading the encounter situations, giving a version opposite to things, arrives the same result; indeed. Those who today, in this House and elsewhere, say that we are in the presence of an attempt by a senator to get away from his trial knowing that he is lying. What the Council - as the rapporteur has just said - is proposing to the Assembly is a conflict of attribution which has nothing to do with the defendant's personal position. Nothing changes in the process that concerns me. Then why are we here? We are here because on this issue we are playing a battle of legal civilization and the dignity of politics. Today we are not talking about me; we are talking about us, about you. We are not talking about Leopolda here; we are talking about the Senate of the Republic, the Parliament of the Republic. We're not talking about foundation here, we're talking about Constitution. The question to which you, ladies and gentlemen, have to answer today is whether Article 68 of the Constitution, which is being discussed in this country, is still in force or no longer valid. At least it doesn't apply to Florentine pm. For the credibility of the institutions, this is a day on which we must read things in the right direction and not on the contrary. Why do you start with Open, then? - you'll ask yourself. Why do we start with the illegitimate papers acquired by the Florentine Public Prosecutor? Illegally not because a defendant says so; not because a political party says so; not because the rapporteur says so; not because the President of the Council says so, but because the Court of Cassation says so. And he says that in five sentences. Five! A new one: five judgments of the Court of Cassation which annulled the measures requested by the Florence Public Prosecutor, only at the preliminary stage. Five out of five. The Court of Cassation, in these five judgments, says that documents were unlawfully acquired, which were therefore not to be acquired. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this simplifies our debate. The fact that Florence's prosecutors have failed to comply with the rules is a peaceful issue. It is not the subject of discussion between us. The Court of Cassation ruled it five times. So what are we doing? A political attack on the judiciary? Shame on those who think it. Shame on anyone who thinks we're attacking the judiciary here. [[Applause]] We are respecting the judiciary to the point of citing the Court of Cassation. We are asking that politics deal with reality, without any attack on the judiciary, also because, to those who say that we are defending ourselves in the trial, allow me, Mr President, to recall a fact. The Supreme Court in this process defined the kidnappings carried out, not kidnappings useful to prove an inditatorial picture, but "a useless sacrifice of rights," which comes to exercise "a not allowed exploratory function." Those who, like us, have a less extensive legal culture, call it trawl fishing. They charge 197 financiers, who get out of the street and work against the real scams, the real escapes, to go get the phones of uninvestigated people. The unnecessary sacrifice of rights is carried out and the exploratory function not allowed is proven. But that this affair has a political appeal and importance, thanks to the will of all the groups, has already been the subject of discussion in this House in December 2019. So I said, and I repeat today, that the Florentine prosecutors have decided to prepare, not already an investigation for illicit financing, to rebuild the money that would have been illegitimately taken by a foundation or party articulation, but to define the forms of politics. Attention! This is a very important passage. In this affair the money is transparent, they are all there, all reclaimed. You don't have to go and rebuild the flow of money, maybe with careful investigative action, so you go and look where those money were. No, because in this affair money is cleared, transparent, under the supervision of the supervisory authorities, starting with Banca d'Italia. The investigation here isn't about money. It is not an investigation into the reconstruction of the financing of money and the flow of money. The investigation here is about what a party is and what it is not. The investigation does not want to question the money, whose traceability no one doubts. They're all cleared up, even before the law imposed bank transfer on everyone. Let's say to those who follow us from home that, with the law of 2014, all money destined for political parties must be reclaimed. Therefore, they are all traced; there is no longer a problem of transparency. We can discuss opportunities, but everything is traced. No: the investigation starts from the assumption that the criminal judge wants to determine what is a party current, how it should be organised, what concrete ways of organizing politics can be done or not. And he thinks he can be a criminal judge. Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members. This may seem trivial, but it is decisive because where the criminal court intervenes in the organizational dynamics of politics, the concept of separation of powers and the freedom of Parliament to define the democratic modalities of politics are lacking. [[Applause]] We know what we're talking about, don't we? Let's talk about this. Illegal funding for politics has written the history of this country in the last thirty years and a debate - I think it is appropriate - has opened on what has happened. However, in this case it is not the same as in the past, when the prosecutors had the administrative secretaries explain themselves, that is, the treasurers, the flow of money. Here we are at a time when prosecutors determine themselves as new party secretariats, perhaps because the parties are no longer put right as before. Let me say that, in the face of this, the Constituent has struggled in the definition of Article 49 of the Constitution. The work of the constituent assembly should be reviewed. Article 49 of the Constitution has been the subject of great debate and debate and the implementing law has always been very difficult. The democratic method of competing with the life of the country is a subject on which those who have studied jurisprudence know that tomi and tomi have been written. The idea that all this cultural, sociological and political debate concerning the forms of liberal democracy could lead in 2022 to a criminal judge who decides what is the current of a party and what is not should trigger a wake-up call. Ladies and gentlemen, in Western democracies it is not the criminal judge who decides what started and what did not. [[Applause]] Think - ironically - that this is a trial in which the prosecution leads to testify to colleagues, in some cases even friends, who were part of the party to which I belonged. Therefore, the accusation is made of political testimonies and the defense of judgments of the Supreme Court. Let the senators judge who is bringing politics into the judiciary. We defend ourselves with the judgments of the Supreme Court and we grew up in the university of that city, from which part the investigation, that Piero Calamandrei had as reference point. Remember the phrase "When politics enters the door of the temple, justice escapes frightened from the window to go back to heaven": Piero Calamandrei said and I think it is very true at this moment. [[Applause]] The point of the dispute is not even the working method of that prosecutor, of which I will not speak: I have already stigmatized it in other fora and it does not concern the parliamentary debate. I think it applies to everyone the principle that the law is the same for everyone. There may be a violation of the law by a magistrate, a senator or a mere citizen: these three violations must be prosecuted in the same way. In the courtrooms we read that "The law is the same for all": not for everyone except some prosecutor of assault. The point is that if a citizen who can afford it, for political reasons first of all, decides to denounce those who, according to him, are not respecting the law, he is not carrying out an inverse act, but is calling to respect the law also the guardians of the law. In fact, in this country impunity is not allowed to anyone: it is not allowed to parliamentarians - alive God - but not even to magistrates. And if there is a possibility of abuse of office or non-respect of the law, draw the attention of other fellow magistrates of another prosecutor or court and verify what happened is a matter of civilization. No, we are not doing subversive acts, nor are we referring here to what has happened on a personal level. I want to tell my colleagues that they will not vote for the proposal of Senator Modena and the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunity: the point of contention is not even the fact that with that method of intrusive, violent, illegitimate seizure, used by the public prosecutors of Florence, my private, personal, family life, with all that this entails - because politics is important, but life is more important, senators [[Applause]] - this life has been fed to a resounding campaign not only in the press. I just hope that what happened to me does not happen to you. I wish you from the bottom of my heart. [[Applause]] I hope so with my heart in my hand. I can hope that this will not happen to you and that you will not be given a treatment that has not only been reserved for me. From the private account to a letter you receive from your father with personal considerations: it is a sphere of family intimacy before which if there is a crime, it is prosecuted, but otherwise no one is allowed to rape the lives of other people thinking that this is right [[Applause]] Then what is the point at issue? I do not want to have a debate on these thirty years, nor on the last thirty months. If we want to have a real debate, let us do so in the coming months. It was not only about politics and the judiciary that this 30-year war was being debated, and we hope it will be a peace in Westphalia, which we do not yet see. Thirty years of age is a war that has certainly seen the judiciary and politics do a tough battle, but those who are intellectually honest know perfectly well that this collective and cathartic analysis that the country must do, is missing a third protagonist, who is not only the magistrate or the politician. Those who love this country, those who are intellectually honest know that the world of information and the press can also participate in a collective reflection. [[Applause]] The world of free communication, which we fully defend, is partly responsible, together with us, for what has happened. In fact, when the veils of a proxy are worth more than the sentences of a Cassation [[Applause]] because someone makes the pool of journalists who in fact becomes the gazette of prosecutors, this issue also concerns the world of information that we defend because he is a guardian of constitutional freedom. We are prepared to do anything to defend freedom of information. This freedom cannot, however, be seen silent in the face of what has happened in many cases. Look, the vail of the proxy is worth more than the judgment of the Cassazione sui sociali, in the world of populism, where you play with the catch clicks, but where you go to make a reflection on the future of the country it is not conceivable that unimportant news of criminal importance are published on the front page and pierced are destined and dedicated to what changes the life of the trials with the sentences of the Cassazione. Not always what is viral is true and if the press gives up its role as a democratic guardian, we have a problem because populism wins not only for the weakness of politics or for the responsibility of the judiciary, but also for the lack of responsibility on the part of the press. Today the point we are discussing is one and it is simple. Mrs Modena mentioned Article 68 of the Constitution. The Constituent, with an interesting and significant ability to see, writes that without permission from the House of Membership, it is forbidden, in any form, to acquire conversations or communications and even to prohibit the seizure of correspondence. That is what Article 68 says. Faced with this, the summary is very simple; it cannot be acquired without the opinion of this House of material relating to the communication and correspondence of Members. Why? Is it a privilege, as populists claim? No, it is the result of a guarantee that, after decades of legal culture, legislative power is separated from executive and judicial power. It is one of the cornerstones of liberal democracy. On the basis of popular indignation, in the 1990s, Article 68 has been reworded and that reformulation today prevents me from doing what has been done to me and which can be done to you tomorrow. To me they can do nothing else: they have already taken from the correspondence of the current account, up to the communications with friends, up to the phones of the lenders. All the more reason why the new wording cannot be aptly ignored by some. In fact, unlike so many other prosecutors that I would like to thank, because there are so many who respect the Constitution of this country and to whom our gratitude goes [[Applause]] , some have also decided to attribute themselves to the function of constituent fathers. In this case, therefore, we have prosecutors who consider themselves depositaries of an inaccurate factual truth; they consider themselves substitutes for political power in the organization of the forms of politics; they consider themselves the inspirers of articles, comments and veils, because casually data and communications pass on the most important days, but they even consider themselves constituent fathers and mothers, ready to disregard the constitutional principle and dictation. This was certainly also possible because of politics. We must do our part of self-criticism and responsibility. If politics does its job, this is not allowed; if politics becomes fearful, fearful, uncertain, hesitant, unsteady, what we have seen happens also these days. Today is February 22nd and it is not just a palindrome day. For those who come from the Scout educational experience is the world festival of scouts, the Day of Thought; for those who grew up with the experience of the White Rose movement, a great moment of formation of European identity and a terrible moment with young boys killed by the Nazis on February 22, 1943, especially the Scholl brothers, on February 22, has always been special. On 22 February, however, it is also the day on which I took an oath eight years ago in the hands of President Napolitano as President of the Council. I tried to change the Constitution and I did not succeed, but Article 138 provides for how the Constitution is changed and until it has changed, the Constitution must be respected. Those who are now scientifically violating the prerogatives of Members are not creating a problem for a single Member (who will do his or her trial independently) but are causing a wound to Parliament in its entirety. When I made the Scout promise, when I swore on the Constitution, when I grew up with the White Rose boys as a model, I promised myself that I would never give up a battle for fear. I promised myself that I would never avoid a battle of courage even when others do not. I don't like this battle, because at the time when the trial has five judgments of the Court of Cassation in its favor, the first advice that defenders give you is to stand up on the one hand, stop and let the acts speak for themselves. But this is a battle that I do with my head high and my face open, not for me, but for the dignity of an institution that in recent years has been all too often put in the background for fear and fear of politics [[Applause]] I do not run away from the process: I ask that I be in a position to raise conflict of attribution not because I think that this can help the process in which I am engaged. I'm not asking you to refuse permission to proceed. I don't run from the courtrooms; I go head-to-head in court, hearing for hearing, to say why we are facing a scandal. However, I say aloud that if anyone wants to invade the terrain of politics, helping to win the populism that demeans public commitment, to pass on the message that those who make politics steal, to say that they are all the same, I stand up in this House and say no; it will not agree with me, but I am proud to honour that promise I made by fighting [[Applause]] I say this because stealing is a crime, office abuse is a crime, not respecting the Constitution is a crime, violating the secret investigation is a crime, defaming is a crime, but politics is not a crime [[Applause]] And if we don't understand that there's an abysmal difference between who's trying to fight this and who's running away from the trial, it means that justiceism has already entered us. Madam President, I'm done. Think about the life that we all do: we bring together thousands of people, organize initiatives, try to change things (sometimes we succeed, sometimes we fail), the same things that we all try to do, right and left. In our actions we respond (responsibility) to a call, to a secular vocation; and this secular vocation is the idea that commitment to others is one of the most beautiful and greatest things that political life can give us. If pieces of the institutions, the magistrates, imagine that they do a trial, not on money and funding, but on the fact that one makes politics and on the ways in which he makes politics, the very idea of collective commitment is being undermined. And then, face to face, if there's to report a prosecutor who doesn't respect the law, I'll sue him. If there's a fight against the current, I'll fight. If it is to be said that politics is serious, I do it, I do it face-to-face, because I think that, before personal consent, the Constitution comes, and I do it because I know that it is a battle that applies especially to younger children. In the last thirty years, perhaps, at some moments, we have lost the moment, we have lost the opportunity, we have missed those who stood up in this House (there have been cases, but not enough) and said: "Defending politics." Madam President, I swore as Premier eight years ago. Today I say here: I continue to defend the idea that politics does not suck, the idea that politics is a value, the idea that politics is a different thing from populism. [[Applause]] I do this against the political populists, but I do it also and above all against those who violate the rules of the Constitution, because they think they are frightening those who instead fear do not have and play the card of courage, in name and on behalf of the dignity of politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u40	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u43	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, for Brothers of Italy the Constitution is sacred. We are a patriotic party and you cannot love the Homeland if you do not love the fundamental law that the Italian people have given to regulate their social, political, economic relations and on which the high and noble civil coexistence of the Italian people is based. And the Constitution respects it as a whole, including Article 68. Today, this House is called upon to judge whether the Florence prosecutors have respected Rule 68 or not. We share the rapporteur's conclusions and consider it out of the question that the Florence Public Prosecutor has blatantly violated Article 68 of the Italian Constitution. [[Applause]] The rule is very clear (both Rule 68 and the implementing law): the correspondence of a Member of Parliament cannot be seized without the permission of the House to which he belongs. This is an irrefutable fact. And by correspondence, of course, it is not just a paper letter, but we must also consider all other forms of written communication that technology has made available to us, whether it is messages WhatsApp, whether it is e-mail letters, or even the statement that the bank sends to its customer. These are forms of correspondence which could not be acquired even with third parties, not just with a Member of Parliament, as the Florence Public Prosecutor did. However, if there was a need for further feedback, just go and look at what the Milan Public Prosecutor did - then another prosecutor of the Italian Republic - towards a senator also belonging to this Assembly: when the Milan Public Prosecutor, in the case of Siri, was confronted with correspondence between a third party and the Senator, he immediately suspended his operations and asked the Senate for permission to proceed, thus respecting the law and the Constitution. So he did not do the Florence prosecutor who, even in the face of the invitations of Senator Renzi's lawyers, also demanded to go ahead, even though he was aware that he was violating the Constitution. [[Applause]] There is no doubt then that politics, Parliament, for the dignity of the Senate, institutions and democracy - because this House represents the Italian people - has not only the right, but, as Senator Renzi rightly pointed out, the duty to intervene. That is why we shall vote in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur, Mrs Modena, and we hope that the whole House will have the courage to say that the rules must be respected, especially by the judiciary, also and above all by the Florence Public Prosecutor as by any other magistrate who, by exercising justice in the name of the Italian people, must therefore before and more than anyone else respect the fundamental law that the Italian people have given himself. It is obvious, as Mr Renzi has said, that the matter does not concern his personal affair, it does not concern the trial to which he is subject and the request for referral to trial of his person, even if five judgments of the Court of Cassation on the illegality of the work of the Florence Public Prosecutor some doubt must make us come and some questions, colleagues, must make us ask it. For example, we should all question ourselves if it still makes sense to maintain a feudal privilege such as the non-responsibility of the magistrates today. [[Applause]] Of course, the Constitutional Court has not admitted the referendum, but this should be an incentive for Parliament to intervene on the responsibility of the judges for their actions. [[Applause]] It is not possible to maintain this privilege of feudal order - I repeat - so that we all respond to the damage we cause by our actions, but the magistrates are not, are immune, are above and outside the law. This is a vulnus to the democratic principle which, as an Italian Parliament, we should finally have the courage to put our hands on. [[Applause]] Another issue on which the story questions us - and I also agree with Senator Renzi - is the relationship between politics and information, between democracy and information, because information must always be limited to what is of public interest. Looking from the hole in the lock to read what father and son write is not information and it is not even populism: it is shameful demagogy [[Applause]] , towards which there is no right and there is no left, but there is only those who defend freedom, dignity and the right of confidentiality, because even the politician, outside the public sphere, has the right to his confidentiality with his personal and his family, just like anyone else. The shame of those who look from the lock hole to sell some extra copies or to make an extra scoop is another topic on which we have to question, Senator Renzi; we must not only do so when they shamefully publish private letters concerning her, but also when, for example, a journalist allows himself to ask a mother if she has or has not vaccinated her child [[Applause]] The scandal is, Madam President, that no one is indignant about that question that deeply wounds the dignity of that mother or father. Here we should be indignant about that question and not about the answer that that mother gave, forced, raped by that impertinent and inappropriate question. The private sphere is private sphere and personal choices are personal choices [[Applause]] and should not be used politically either by information or by a political opponent. Do you see how many issues we should and could address today if we had the dignity - and I hope this House proves to have it - to say that the law is really the same for everyone, starting with our Constitutional Charter? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u46	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in addressing today a particularly sensitive and, as such, particularly exposed to instrumentalism and preconceptions, I believe that we must first answer a fundamental question: what exactly are we called upon to take a position on? What perimeter do we have to move? Do we have to take a stand today in the indiscriminate and now ancient ideological conflict between the judiciary and politics, of which the present story would only be a further episode? We don't have to do this, I guess. Let it be clear, we believe that confrontation in itself is reprehensible, fueled as it is by opposing party and media typhoseries and by too many professionals of exasperation and exaggeration. In fact, I think that today too we must reiterate that this dispute has been and is a damage to our country. It does not benefit the quality of our democracy and hinders the commendable work of anyone who wants to carry out good reforms of politics and justice; good reforms that are extremely necessary and of which - I would like to point out - are a good example of the measures that the current majority is carrying out, on the impulse and coordination of the Minister Cartabia. [[Applause]] In this regard, we want to be very clear: we believe that it is a very censorable mistake for anyone who, by his acts and words, contributes to exacerbating the confrontation and causing ideological dust. We condemn the blunting and crusading tones from whatever side they come from and we hope - let it be said by the way - that these tones will also be outside the next public debate that will concern the referendums on justice admitted in recent days by the Council. [[Applause]] Our fellow citizens, especially at this time, want examples of composure and institutional sobriety from their representatives and, on the contrary, too often see the opposite: overtness, lack of balance and sense of the limit. Polarization is not good, it is not good for anyone. Today - let it be clear - we are not even called upon to judge the investigative assumptions underlying a particular criminal investigation - it is not Parliament's task to give these judgments, it is a task of the judges - nor are we called upon to personalize and dramatize a question of principle, indeed in the face of issues of such high constitutional importance I think that Parliament's first duty is to place firmly anchored opinions in the public debate, without indulging in generalizations that are pretentious and improper, without giving in to tribalistic and ideological temptations. Parliament must do this outside of all personalization and dramatization. All this said, it is clear that much more is the task that we are called upon to carry out today. What is required is to carry out a detailed, documented and rigorous assessment of the facts relevant to the decision that we must take. We must carry out a targeted analysis, a good and correct differential analysis, it would have been said in other times. The facts before us revolve around Article 68 of the Constitution, which the Constitution wanted to protect the prerogatives of the parliamentarians' independence and to protect the dignity of the institution they represent. The Constituent wanted this to affirm in the most peremptory way that between the powers of the State must run lines of safe, clear and well guarded borders. This frontier is crucial because it serves to balance values and interests equally worthy of protection and which sometimes tend to collide. These are frontiers that serve to give concreteness to the principle of separation and balance between the powers of the State, a principle which, together with that of the rule of law, that is, the equality of all citizens before the law, is the heart of our democratic order. The defence of the centrality of Parliament, moreover, is effective and credible only in so far as it is not put into the field of alternating current. Where there is a well-founded and reasonable doubt that in a specific circumstance one of the powers of the State has exceeded, that it has crossed the border that divides its territory from that of another constitutional power, it is legitimate to ask the highest Court to rule and to say whether or not there has been an invasion of the field to be sanctioned so that they do not have to verify others in the future. I would say that this request must be made. In this particular case, we find reasonable the argument that the e-mail messages and WhatsApp involving a parliamentarians are a form of correspondence comparable to the traditional paper-type written communications, of which they represent an evolution made possible by technological progress. It seems to us, therefore, a well-founded claim that they should benefit from the same level of protection and that, as such, under Article 68 above, they cannot be kidnapped by the judicial authority without authorization from the Chamber to which the Member belongs. Of course, on this occasion we cannot help but reaffirming the validity of what our Group has said in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities: the position we are taking today and which I am expressing is consistent with the conduct held in that body. In Junta we clarified that our assessments could have been more fully and more precisely motivated if our request to acquire all the documentation concerning the genesis of the contested investigations had been accepted. [[Applause]] That request was rejected and rejected was a mistake. I come to the conclusions. Investing the Council of Ministers in the problem of principle, asking them to define a precise orientation in this regard is neither a lack of respect for the independence of the judiciary - which is of the utmost importance to us. [[Applause]] - nor, even more so, a way of hindering the work of law enforcement, which is of primary importance to us. [[Applause.]] The conflict of attribution today can be, on the other hand, a factor of clarity, useful to politics and the judiciary, also because it is not to be excluded that the Court, which so far has never expressed itself on specific cases of this type, in dealing with the case, can decide, by order of authoression, that it is also necessary to deal with the constitutional legitimacy of some provisions of law n. 140 of 2003, never before made object of constitutional union; which would, among other things, allow to say a definitive word not only on the equivalence of electronic written communications to the common paper correspondence, but also on the principle inspiring the recalled law of 2003 implementing Article 68 of the Constitution. That law - attention, colleagues - in Articles 4 and 6 protects the written correspondence of a Member of Parliament in a different and stronger way than it provides for other forms of communication. Everyone should be interested - including magistrates - in making complete clarity, i.e. to know from the Consulta whether or not that greater protection is constitutionally justified. For us to support the opportunity to ask for the Consultative Committee to speak on these issues means moving with composure and sobriety in the wake of better constitutionalism and the most fruitful liberal democratic thought. [[Applause]] It means giving evidence of a culture of guarantees, which is quite different - let me tell you this - and far more serious than certainly caricature guaranteeing consisting in an attitude of prejudice and ostentatious hostility towards the magistrates. An attitude that we have always condemned and that we will never stop condemning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u49	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, the Junta is called a parajurisdictional body, but the debates and votes that are made there are never so: they are always guided by political convenience. I therefore apologise to this House if it seems to be going out of the question, but I will only talk about legal issues, because today's decision will be an important precedent and is therefore delicate. Pursuant to Article 4 of Law No 140 of 2003, prior authorisation is required to seize correspondence or to intercept a Member's users. For indirect or random interceptions, on the other hand, if one of the parties requests the use, it will be the judge of the preliminary investigations who will request the subsequent authorization pursuant to Article 6 of the same law. Entering into the matter, we immediately clarify that the seizure order was not carried out against Senator Renzi, but a third non-parliamentary. The messages we are dealing with do not fall within the notion of correspondence, which involves dynamic sending and receiving activities, nor do they constitute interception activities, which requires the collection of an ongoing stream of communications, but have the nature of documents, a tertium genus not provided for by Constitutional Law No 140 of 2003. This is supported by the consolidated jurisprudence of the Cassation that, with numerous judgments - the most recent even of 2021 - clarifies that, SMS, WhatsApp, e-mail downloaded or stored in memory, found in a cell phone subject to seizure have the nature of documents, with the consequence that the relative acquisition does not subjugate the rules established for correspondence nor much less the discipline of interceptions. Moreover, with the judgment n. 390 of 2007 the Constitutional Court clarified that the expression of Article 68 (3) of the Constitution, "interceptions," in any form, refers to the different modes of interception, in any form, for example by distinguishing telephones from the environment, but not to different forms of communication. Therefore, we are faced with a particular case, namely the case of the seizure of documents from third parties, which, in order to protect parliamentary prerogatives, I believe should be treated in the same way as the discipline of indirect interceptions, but which the current law does not provide for. The report considers the acquisition of messages as a seizure of correspondence and concludes that in any case prior authorisation is necessary, regardless of whether or not such evidence is used in relation to the Member of Parliament and whether the seizure takes place with third parties. I would like the House to understand the abhorrence of this claim. Precisely because of the unpredictability, ex ante, of the existence of the data referable to the parliamentarians, the judicial authority could not, even if it wished, have the authorization of the House of belonging in advance. Moreover, the documents, although legitimately seized by a third party, due to the lack of prior authorisation would also be unusable to the third party, thus extending, in fact, the parliamentary prerogatives also to non-parliamentarians. In this argument, it would suffice that in a phone seized from a mobster there was a message sent to a parliamentarians to determine its unusability even to the mobster. [[Applause]] Absolutely different is the Siri case, erroneously referred to as a valid precedent, because it was an act of investigation directed against a senator, as directed towards one of his collaborators, in an office proper to the senator. As regards the so-called statement of account, considered in the report also correspondence to be subject to prior authorisation, it should be pointed out that it is not the one usually sent to the account holder, but a document lawfully acquired by the judiciary, through request to the bank, following a suspicious transaction report, as such provided for by law. Therefore, it cannot be the subject of conflict of attribution, but, if anything, an assessment of the confidentiality and respect of the secret investigation. Without that amazes, on some aspects I think Senator Renzi is right. I wondered how I was gonna act as a prosecutor. I would perhaps have considered it appropriate to investigate the question raised by Senator Renzi the judge for preliminary investigations, who, in his third-party capacity, would have ensured the proper conduct of the investigations and respected his decisions. The judge for the preliminary hearing is, inter alia, still required to rule on these questions. At the same time, however, I believe it is wrong to drag the Senate into a conflict of attributions that has no reason to be. I try to believe that Senator Renzi has faced this battle, not to defend himself from the trial, as he said, but to defend the prerogatives of the Senate and of all parliamentarians. For this reason, I do not believe that there is the basis for raising a conflict of attribution, as the report envisages, but that it is urgent to intervene by supplementing the provisions of Law No 140 of 2003 to protect all members of Parliament. In fact, there can be no matter of conflict between powers, because the prosecutor may not have abused a rule that is not there. In the same way, the Senate cannot demand prior authorisation not provided for by law for a seizure carried out not against the parliamentarians, but with third parties, nor can an analogue application of the discipline of indirect interceptions in the case of a seizure of documents with third parties. In fact, the rules establishing parliamentary immunities and prerogatives in derogation from the principle of equal treatment before the courts must be interpreted in the sense that is most consistent with the text. We should therefore assimilate by law what passes from our smartphones (sms, WhatsApp messages and e-mails in memory) to the discipline already provided for indirect interceptions, thus providing for all parliamentarians the necessary request for authorization to use documents as well. This legislative innovation would not only fill a void, but, by the principle of favour, would apply to Senator Renzi himself already in the ongoing proceedings. On the other hand, if we want to re-introduce a new and wider form of immunity or the old authorisation to proceed repealed in 1993, we are discussing this openly. Let us face up to a bill: I will be against it, but, as is often the case, I may be in the minority. In conclusion, it is considered that the matter does not exist in order to raise in this case a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, since it must be identified in the court never invested in the matter the body competent to declare definitively the will of the power of the judicial authority, as provided for in Article 37 of Law No 87 of 11 March 1953. In addition, the act detrimental to the parliamentary function is not identified except in the omission of the request for authorisation of a seizure carried out against a non-parliamentary person. Finally, as we have seen, the rule that is assumed violated in the exercise of power is missing. For these reasons, I announce the vote against the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group to the proposed report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u52	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to address briefly three substantive issues. As for the first, why are we convinced that the path is that of conflict of powers? Because it is the clear signal of an action of the judiciary according to which, in essence, Senator XY (I want to depersonalize) has been taken current accounts, messages WhatsApp and e-mails that then - regularly - have ended up in the press. This is not acceptable at all. [[Applause]] The statement of account of each of us (even if we are politically exposed) is a correspondence between the bank and a citizen and we do not understand how it can be hired without request. I'm not saying it can't be done. We must be clear about this: the judiciary can do this, but if it is a case where preventive seizure is required, it must ask the question first. We ask not to tie our hands to the judiciary, but simply to enforce the law and the Constitution, with the submission of an ex ante question to which we can respond positively or negatively, as has happened in many other hypotheses. However, we must think about this vote because there is another aspect; sometimes there is a creeping tendency on the part of many people not to have the courage to defend what is their function and, therefore, to accept, without even realizing, passively, that certain things happen. By quoting other cases of conflict of powers, we passively accept that a magistrate should judge the reasons why certain amendments are being tabled or, using another hypothesis, we should accept cases such as those we are analysing today. I have understood one thing from this experience: falling behind the highlighted trend is a wrong approach. We must have the courage, but above all the awareness and dignity of the role that takes place and know how to defend it head-on. [[Applause]] Our leader Anna Maria Bernini gave me this principle as a teaching, as well as all my colleagues from Forza Italia. The defence of prerogatives is not in fact the defence of privileges, but the defence of a function that takes place and must be carried out with the dignity and composure that it imposes. Yeah, we missed a few chances. Not us from Forza Italia. If we want to put the issue on the ground of relations between politics and the judiciary, it has very different origins and far away. I don't want to go through all of them again, but remember instead that certainly few can say that something terrible happened to him, but they hope it doesn't happen to others. We have people and - let me say - I believe that our President Berlusconi [[Applause]] has objectively suffered such persecution that it makes it difficult to think that someone could hold others like the one he has suffered. [[Applause]] Our vote will be in favour of approving the report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Allow me to thank all my colleagues and, in particular, the President of the Council and the offices for the support they have given us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u55	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will try to be brief, I had prepared a speech cloth, but after listening to Senator Renzi, I will probably have to make some detours. For today's vote we must start with a preliminary part. In other words, we must understand as senators of the Republic that the question of species concerning Senator Renzi, in reality should not concern Senator Renzi, must concern something much wider. It is precisely the constitutional appeal that I appreciated in your speech. We are here to protect this Constitution. I can therefore appreciate the content and passages of your speech. Above all, it must be clear in the heart of each of us that this premise does not look at the specific case or the preconceptions or prejudices that probably some of us, some of us within this Senate, may have towards the individual person or the individual parliamentarians. We must have it clear in our heads, because it is the only way we can get a serious vote. I believe, however, that this premise must be remembered today, as we probably should have done in other votes that have seen the Senate express itself. The reference to President Berlusconi - as Senator Modena has done - is obvious, but I cannot fail to recall the example of Senator Salvini. [[Applause]] Even then, in fact, we have seen how the name and surname of a senator can change the vote of an Assembly. It's ugly to say, but unfortunately it is, and we've seen it before. That was the premise. Let us now talk about Article 68 of the Constitution. All colleagues have recalled the principles underlying Article 68 of the Constitution. They are principles of guaranteeing the powers of the Chambers and of the judicial authority, which seek to eliminate mutual interference. This is stated by the Constitution, and not by a Member of the Republic or a Parliamentary Group: that is the rule that states it. I would also like to remind you that this constitutional rule which is the foundation of the legal order protects not the individual Member - and this is probably something we should remind someone who has exploited it - but the Parliamentary Assembly, and this is a much wider interest than that of the individual Member of Parliament. We maintain the functionality of Parliament, the integrity of its composition and decision-making autonomy. If we delete one of these three, it makes no sense to sit in this House anymore. We must support this rule, because it is the basis for democratic freedom. We represent democratic freedom here and the House represents it, because we are an expression of a vote, of a people: the people voted for us, they sent us here and we must represent it. However, I repeat that, in order to represent it, to exercise its legislative function worthily and freely, we must always respect the Constitution, but we must all do so: we first, but also all the powers of the State, starting with the main ones. If we really want to comply fully with the constitutional rule, we must remember that its implementation must be full and respectful of all powers. On this I listened to Senator Parrini say that we must not throw the issue - of course synthesize - into the usual debate between politics and the judiciary. I am among those who continue to argue that the freedom and independence of the judiciary must be protected, but also the freedom and independence of politics must be protected because, if we do not guarantee them, we do not guarantee the balance of the State. Let us remember that our Constitution is based on precise balances and that it has been written after a bad period of our history, from which we have learned many things. We must therefore maintain those balances. It is not enough to continue to seek easy consensus with anti-politics, as someone still insists on doing. We need true politics, the one that has characterized our history and also the movement to which I belong, because we have always looked at our base, we have always listened to people. This has always characterized us and must continue to characterize us. We cannot allow the surrender or reinterpretation of constitutional rules to make politics more childish, because it is easier to tell. Politics is a very difficult art and, precisely for this reason, we must be particularly careful and careful when taking such decisions. Senator Renzi could be told a lot. Some of his expressions - I honestly tell him - I did not particularly appreciate them. But democracy is, of course, beautiful for this very reason: we cannot agree on everything and we must not agree on everything. But let us always remember the words that have been said, such as - for example - that the veil of the proxy is worth more than a sentence. Let's always remember this, even when there may be some wild attacks, because a warning of guarantee is enough to put a person on the cross. I quote, only for contemporaneity, the fact that today has arrived the filing to the president of the Lombardy Fontana Region [[Applause]] , which was crucified for a warranty notice. Let us always remember it, when there will be other passages of Junta, because obviously there will be passages of Junta. Let us try to reason on the merits of things and constitutional rules, because, if we do not respect them, politics goes away to get fried - excuse the term - and we agree with those who do anti-politics. On the contrary, here we must make the real policy and return to the beautiful episodes of politics, such as those that were there just now, when we unanimously approved a bill with absolutely meritorious content. Let us try to find that content of true politics and avoid using the votes of Junta, as has been done in the past. Let us remember this for the future; let it remain in the acts and let there be memory of this thing. In recalling all this, in order to ensure that all those who have spoken these words today remember them also tomorrow, I announce the Lega-Salvini Premier Group's vote in favour of the rapporteur's report, with the premises that I have made: it is not a vote in favour of Senator Renzi, but it is a vote in favour of respecting the constitutional rules and democratic freedom of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u58	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, today we are debating whether the Senate should promote a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State before the Constitutional Court with regard to the acts of the Florence Public Prosecutor against Senator Renzi. I would like to make it quite clear that we do not consider the elements available to us to believe that this conflict can be raised. But I will come back to this later, and this was discussed in detail by Senator Grasso. Senator Renzi, on the other hand, and Senator Parrini, on the other hand, said just now that we are discussing the dignity of politics in this House today. And so, President, I think it is essential to bring our point of view on what the dignity of politics is for us and on what the role of politics should be, also in the light of the debate that has developed in the country around this story, and on how we believe that the activities of parliamentarians, members of the government and in general of anyone, by making politics, take decisions for citizens both and should always be subject to an ethical evaluation. Ethics, Mr President, is the responsibility to account for its actions. Therefore, for a politician, ethics is accountable to his own actions and actions to his own voters, in a clear and transparent way, always. The aim of politics must be to pursue the common good and identify the path it takes to achieve that good. So the relationship between ethics and politics is always positive. However, when a politician does not do the common good, that relationship then becomes negative. [[Applause]] Mr President, this debate certainly also makes it clear that, thirty years after "Clean Hands," the issue of financing parties is still an unresolved issue. Clearly, the laws adopted so far have not been enough, because it is clear that it cannot be enough to move the lender from the public to the private sector, if that lender does not have a transparency obligation and today private law entities, i.e. foundations, have no reporting obligation. In fact, only thanks to the law "scratchers" and our Minister Alfonso Bonafede, today the foundations that have inside of them political exponents are equated with parties. [[Applause]] This substantial step forward that has been taken, however, must be accompanied by another piece: namely the adoption as soon as possible of a law that regulates lobbying and there is a law, it has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies and it is, once again, a proposed law of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] Let us rather work on this, colleagues: let us work on giving the country a real law on conflict of interest. The problem is not whether there is a funder who wants to subsidise a political force: the problem is to clarify and eliminate all those grey areas in the relationship between a politician or a political force and a bearer of interests. Moreover, it is no coincidence that the body of the Council of Europe dealing with the fight against corruption has also urged Italy to adopt, as soon as possible, a genuine and serious law on conflict of interest. It is clear that, once again, this is an ethical issue and for these same reasons, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to adopt as soon as possible a code of ethics for senators. Today in this House we have also heard a lot about the autonomy of politics. But, if the autonomy of politics is understood as self-referentiality or as autonomy over collective interests, then can we still talk about politics as intended to the common good, or are we talking about the opposite of politics, anti-politics? [[Applause]] After all, Senator Renzi himself - I remember it well - in 2018, during a television show, said that politics is made following an ideal, not money, and that transparency would never give discounts to anyone. We fully agree with those words, but the words must follow the facts and there must be implementation of the principles contained in those words, which otherwise remain empty. We are also firmly convinced that, when politics passes from logic of service to logic of power, then also parties are no longer those mediators - as provided for in the Constitution - between State and citizens. And when the common good is no longer at the heart of politics, but only that of a part, then the State is no longer the place for citizens to recognize themselves, the institution from which they feel protected. [[Applause]] ; indeed, it becomes almost an enemy of the common good, an enemy to be fought. Colleagues, do we really want the citizens to continue to see the State as an enemy and we parliamentarians as privileged ones tied to the armchairs to think about our interests, or do we all want to work to strengthen the relationship of trust between the State and citizens that must be the basis of the restart of this country? [[Applause]] Mr President, never before - and I hope it is clear to everyone - is it necessary to strengthen social cohesion, precisely in order to regain that sense of trust in the institutions that is the basis of the necessary sharing so that all citizens can contribute to that social project that must restart the country after the pandemic. If we want to strengthen social cohesion, we must build the future on three pillars. The first is the confidence of citizens, which is based on the transparency of our actions as well; the second pillar is the participation of citizens, who must act as protagonists also in public choices; the third is solidarity, to which is added the protection of the common good or - as we like to say - common goods. Mr President, the Movimento 5 Stars believes that transparency must always distinguish the work of the political class, precisely in order to foster that trust between citizens and institutions, avoiding the risk that the border between politics and business, between public and personal gain, will become increasingly thinner until it disappears. [[Applause. Comments]] In conclusion, today the Movimento 5 Stars will vote firmly against the request for conflict of attribution, because on the basis of the available elements it turns out that this investigation - as Senator Grasso also said - was directed to a third person. In this case it was not necessary to require the prior authorization of the Senate, which can intervene only in case of concrete use of the acts under consideration, which cannot be seen in this circumstance. Therefore, in the absence of the necessary elements to shape and support the request for a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, I repeat our vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u61	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-I-C-EU-NdC (NC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly on behalf of the Italian component of the Mixed Group. The debate in this House is not about Senator Matteo Renzi, nor is it about us here as representatives of the people. It concerns, for the reasons I will say, every Italian citizen, even if there will always be someone who considers constitutional healings a prerevolutionary privilege. And above all it concerns a concept of guaranteeing that is not at all, as has been overshadowed, a way of camouflaging a Pavlovian innocentism: it is simply the other side of legality, because it merely asks that the control of legality entrusted to the judicial authority be carried out as the law commands. I don't think he's asking himself too much. Colleagues, we share the report proposed to us by the Junta; indeed, perhaps it is a text that is too soft. The question we are dealing with today is not in fact a lightning strike in the quiet night, but it comes to the outcome of a process of erosion that has progressively narrowed the perimeter of the guarantees, shifting from time to time the margin of inindacability, the bar of the judicial union on the exercise of the parliamentary mandate, the border between random interceptions and indirect interceptions that even the Constitutional Court in the years ago had sculpted with clarity Adamentina. A process of erosion that has been worn out without politics, for fear of being pointed out by anti-politics to the public, has lifted a still faint voice. Of so many shortcomings that my part can be blamed for political and institutional life, at least this cannot be charged. Paraphrasing Bertolt Brecht, there were those who sat on the side of an unpopular reason even when the crowded part was that of a much more captivating wrong, and that unpopularity endured it even when at stake there were the rights of one's own political opponent who perhaps did not have the courage to claim them. Before this debate began, I wondered if perhaps today the process of institutionalization undertaken by anti-politics and the now transversal and widespread awareness of the enormous problems of Italian justice could help to say things that seemed until recently lunar. Maybe it is, or maybe it is a pious illusion. But at the cost of appearing lunar it is right to affirm and reaffirm certain principles. Because a constitutional guarantee denied to a Member of Parliament does not correspond to more rights for citizens: the opposite is true, and history should have taught us that. In view of this, the report before us today needs to be approved. Because Article 68 exists and must be respected. Because the concepts of "communication" or "conversation" are not a matter for quirky quirks, but are coveted with their ontological consistency. Because it is unbelievable that in the light of progress every legal concept is considered to be evolving but it should not be taken into account how much technology has affected the concept of "correspondence." Once upon a time there were epistolaries, no one could deny that modern epistolaries are the door of daily online exchanges. We who have always affirmed these things, even when they were very unfashionable, will not tire of repeating them today that the pathologies of justice, and the serious relapses of a weak and weakened institutional system, have become pronounced by latent. We hope that the same reflection can be made in conscience by colleagues who move from different conceptions. As far as we are concerned, we will support the defence of the Italian legal system before the Constitutional Court without, however, without any doubt. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u62	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to raise a conflict of attribution against the Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Florence in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Matteo Renzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate to one or more lawyers in the free forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u63	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u65	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, on Wednesday 16 February I was the victim of a political attack, an attack which not only affected me but also all people with disabilities. In fact, this very delicate theme has been used instrumentally to attack me. I was initially thinking of letting things go, but, given the seriousness of the statements made in this Chamber by Senator Augussori, I cannot help but be quite specific. We can discuss everything, but no one must afford to question the utmost respect and my total dedication to such a delicate issue as disability and all persons and families with disabilities. [[Applause]] Disability has been present in my family: my father Giulio's brother from an early age has been hospitalized in structures because of his disabilities; he has always had constant emotional and economic assistance. After Father's death, mainly with my mother and my sister Marisa, without interruption, we witnessed him and supported him, also hiring great professionals to draw up expert reports that would prevent him from moving to other structures that would have made him lose important points of reference. So, I think that to exploit an episode that was actually a mere political criticism, using the subject of disability as a disproportion, is really petty; a judgment that, moreover, certainly does not fall among the prerogatives of this assembly nor even less among those of Senator Augussori, who instead allowed himself to give his personal judgment by mystifying the reality of fact, insinuating that even I would have wanted to resolve the issue with a block of cheques in hand. Through you, Mr President, I would like to say to Senator Augussori that, unfortunately, we are all destined to die; perhaps in hundreds of years - who knows - some of my descendants will want to do research on an ancestor who has had the honour and the burden of sitting among these minds. I absolutely don't want to let him get the idea that he had a reprehensible ancestor and worthy of contempt, but that on the contrary he worked with discipline and honor always. Senator Augussori, on Wednesday, laughing at me, invited his colleagues to read the papers: absolutely right, do it, do it, go read - without decontextualizing - the individual statements of the entire post and you will realize that even trying to close the diatribe properly is an honorable issue, also and above all in compliance with a line of the Group to which I honour to belong. My story will not come back to the Chamber: I will close it so as not to create embarrassment. The rapporteur, Pellegrini Emanuele, whom I thank, had nevertheless returned to this House, and I have reason to believe that my case would have had a favourable outcome if I put it to the vote because, unlike Senator Augussori who has allowed himself to speak inadmissible to me, in the thought of many people I am a person who deserves esteem, consideration, respect and trust; this everywhere has interacted. I will always end by you, President, with an observation for Senator Romeo. Think of your company and do not allow yourself to address my group, as you did on Wednesday. He has no title to teach others. Shut up can't be heard in Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u68	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, today's speech is part of that initiative - which women in Parliament wanted - which we called a relay for women in Afghanistan. On 1 and 2 February, the European Parliament organised two days full of conferences, seminars and events on the extremely worrying situation for women in Afghanistan, following the Taliban's takeover last year. Afghan guests urged the international and European community to act and delegitimize the rulers in fact. Among the guests of the conference were the 11 Afghan women finalists of the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought 2021 of the European Parliament, representatives of the Commission and the United Nations, as well as representatives of other important international organisations and local Afghan foundations. Within the widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, women are the most affected. After the severe drought and decades of war and occupation, international troops were evacuated following the return of Taliban power and the country was cut off from international financial institutions. This, in turn, triggered a banking crisis and worsened economic conditions. According to the Executive Deputy Director of the World Food Programme, Ute Klamert, 58 percent of the Afghan population need humanitarian assistance and 23 million people have insufficient access to food. Although the Taliban claimed to have changed their policies on women's participation in society, this proved to be false. Women have been excluded from public life, without education, unable to enter the world of work and without access to health care, unless accompanied by a man. This has put in place a gender apartheid. As discussed in more detail in the session, girls are sold out of desperation to feed the rest of the family, illustrating the severity of the current times. The President of the European Parliament opened the conference at high level, welcoming journalists, activists, parliamentarians and other women who came to Brussels for Afghan Women's Day with the following words: Today's event is to give voice to women and girls in our home and support the work done by women finalists of the Sakharov Prize. They taught us that, even if there is a time to cry, there is also a time to resist injustice. Do not repeat the same mistakes as in the past. Help women, people, to continue to educate themselves through small projects to reach all Afghans. Help us to preserve what we have built in 20 years. Help our starving people. You do not recognise the Taliban Government and, if you negotiate agreements for humanitarian reasons, that they are never unconditional: this is, in a nutshell, what Afghan women have said at an unprecedented event in the European Parliament. And that is the invitation I bring to this House today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u71	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, I believe that it is useful and appropriate to bring to the attention of this House the issues connected with the possible approval of the new national tariff nomenclature. The Ministry of Health, in this period, is engaged in the elaboration of the tariff and more and more are the reports that we are receiving of the operators of the field, that show possible negative effects in case of approval. These effects would be heavy especially for the medium and small analysis laboratories, which would be in a situation of severe disadvantage compared to the large structures. The hypothesis to which the Ministry is working would, in fact, predict a weighted average cut of the current rates, with a percentage between 50 and 60 percent. It is easy to understand that laboratories with a relatively limited number of performances would no longer have the margin to continue their activity and all this would cause a reduction or even their closure, with inevitable layoffs and losses of thousands of jobs throughout Italy. Totally different would be the situation of the structures able to work daily millions of performances, which, despite the considerable reduction of the tariffs, could easily absorb cuts. In view of this possible scenario, obviously the sector is in strong fibrillation and the small operators have already started protesting against the Ministry, to the point of sending formal legal cautions against the possible promotion of the new tariff under the conditions that I have described previously. I therefore believe that the Ministry should evaluate other elements for an objective analysis of the tariffs, such as the cost of staff and the management of the structures themselves, in addition of course to the costs of the material necessary for quality examinations. I hope that further consideration will be given to the relevant bodies, through a more thorough investigation and greater listening to the operators, gathering and recovering their considerable concerns. Finally, I would like to stress that, particularly in the health sector, cost reduction must not penalise workers, businesses and the quality of the service offered to citizens. Parliament and the Ministry must always pay close attention to this, in the sole interest of all parties involved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u74	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, in the early days of the cold February, many newspapers have beaten the news that groups of volunteers have been removed from Rome's Termini Station because they were distributing hot food to homeless people. This is a disconcerting news, followed by another even more disturbing news: in the evening water is thrown where they prepare a night bed. By attending the Termini Station, I well understand the discomfort that those people cause, but one cannot sacrifice human solidarity. They are our brothers, only more unfortunate, weak and needy. Instead of reaching out to them to help them get up and regain human dignity, we remove them in every way. Our stone heart is even incapable of offering them what is not denied even to a stray dog. Lack of work, poverty, marginalization, disability, alcoholism and social neglect lead to human degradation. It is necessary to act with all the love that every human being deserves, even more towards those suffering a discomfort: as do Lorenzo della Caritas, who organizes the street units to the rescue, with food and clothing, of those who do not have a roof, or Pino, who brings them blankets in the evening and in the morning refreshes them with a boiling cappuccino and a smile. All public institutions need to act urgently on what is happening at the Termini Station and are not there, either with emergency aid on the street or through appropriate policies of reception, rehabilitation and social reintegration. First of all I appeal to the Capitoline Council, which in its settlement declared the fight against inequalities, involving large stations and prefecture. I also urge the Government and Parliament to take the utmost care of those who suffer the cruelty of street life, starting with this House, who must put in place adequate legislative instruments that give dignity to everyone. Bills lie in the dust that could partially solve the problem. I quote - for example - the provision on the prevention and treatment of states of pathological dependence, but much more can be done. Come on! Only a society that takes care of the last one can be said to be right. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-406.ana.u76	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 23 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.39.
