ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document XXII- bis, No 8. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteurs whether they intend to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's examination of this report in this House is an important, indeed fundamental, step towards a change of cultural perspective on the subject of violence against women. In fact, the report presented today deals with the path of trafficking for men who are the perpetrators of violence. The Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women identifies four main strategies for action, the so-called four p: prevention, protection, prosecution and policies. The establishment by the acceding States of treatment paths for men who are perpetrators of violence is explicitly provided for in Article 16 of the same Convention, which identifies the implementation of rehabilitation pathways as one of the key actions in the strategy of preventing gender-based violence, assuming that the support and human rights of victims are a priority and that such programmes are established and implemented in close coordination with specialised victim support services. Despite this explicit prediction, the establishment of these paths has remained unimagined and the issue debated for too many years in our country. Apart from praiseworthy realities that arose spontaneously in our country, thanks to the commitment of professionals and volunteers, politics had so far not really taken over the theme. Yet actively involving men in the phenomenon of violence against women means having the courage to go to its origin; to turn to men and ask them to question the causes of this problem, which is structural and endemic, means finally trying to close the circle. There are those who do not see, in fact, how to actively involve men in the reflection on violence against women is an indispensable necessity in order to consolidate that change of perspective of our society that, with difficulty, we are all trying to achieve together. A change that finally leads to reduction or hopefully to the eradication of gender violence. In fact, when we really think of the phenomenon of gender violence, the conclusion that is inevitably reached is that it does not concern, as is often said, a deviant or pathological fringe of the population. Rather, it has its roots in a shared culture and in relational models based on subordination, gender inequality and a pervicacious distinction of roles between the sexes; gender stereotypes hard to die that engulf both women and men. We are all imbued with this culture of inequality. That is why if we really want to go to the root of the phenomenon of violence against women, it cannot be enough to intervene with the necessary support to the victims and with the repression of the guilty, but it is necessary, indeed crucial, to prevent and, in order to do so, we need to act on the behaviour of the perpetrators of violence and not only after, that is, when the violence is accomplished, but before the known spiral of violence is triggered that still leads too often to tragic and fatal results. We are well aware, Mrs Conzatti and I, who promote this focus on the perpetrators of violence, the delicacy of the subject, the fact that some parties have reservations about it and that the promotion of paths for perpetrators of violence is a revolution in the approach to the phenomenon. For this reason, first of all, I would like to thank all the Members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide for their support and constant work. I thank President Valente for promoting this path. In fact, the Commission carried out a comprehensive and detailed investigation on the subject, which lasted over a year in which the highest national and international experts in the sector were audited, acquired memories and documents and in-depth profiles of comparative law. Thanks to this shared process of work, this report on the path of trafficking for men of violence, like the other eight resolutions so far, has also been adopted unanimously in the Commission, despite the reservations I have mentioned. One of the things that we, as the Commission, immediately had to specify is that the work on the behaviour of men who are perpetrators of violence has nothing to do with the profile of the condemnation of illegal conduct, in respect of which the authors remain always responsible and in any case condemnable. The work with the abusers responds rather to two needs, closely connected with each other: at the individual level of the individual author of violence, it responds to the need to intervene to break down, in that individual man, the causes that are at the root of his behavior and possibly do so before the escalation of violence is triggered; at the collective level, it responds instead to the need to change the culture of society in which we live, which still struggles to identify and stigmatize male violence against women. Finally, I remember that acting to change the behavior of the abuser can and often means saving not only the victim of the moment, but also the future potentials, as well as being a valid tool to prevent minors possibly present from absorbing the violence experienced in the family and perpetuating it in turn as adults. Unfortunately, we know that those who experience child-assisted violence will more easily act or enter into toxic relationships when they become adults. All the indicators we have analysed in the Commission, both national and international, tell us that carrying out treatments on men who are the perpetrators of violence is an advantage. The analyses carried out for our country by the Institute for Research on Population and Social Policies (IRPPS) of the National Research Council (CNR), by the network of men's centres responsible for violence Relive, associated with the European Network Work with perpetators (WWP), by the Crime Prevention Division of the Milan police station, in collaboration with the Italian Centre for the promotion of mediation, are extremely comforting about the achievement of the objectives of risk monitoring, interruption of escalation and reduction of the rate of recurrence of violent behaviors. There is also a wide range of European and international experience at a comparative level which has shown the same positive results. For this reason, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender-based violence, has decided to carry out a specific focus on this issue, also in order to prepare useful recommendations for the approval of a bill that brings, for the first time in Italy, an organic discipline of such paths and centers that offer treatments for men who are the perpetrators of violence. In this connection, I would remind you that draft laws are being examined by the 2nd Commission. 1770 and 1868, of my own initiative and Senator Conzatti, who were associated with the bill against violence against women, on the initiative of the Government, the Senate Act 2530. We look forward to a speedy examination and approval process. The investigation carried out by the Commission on the paths for men of violence has been timely and thorough. It began with a series of surveys in some specialised centres, such as the center of Rome, the center of Genoa and that of Rovereto, and then continued with the hearing of several experts. In this way we have been able to realize firsthand the professionalism of the operators and the work that is carried out there. Seven hearing sessions have been held and numerous experts have been audited between psychologists and psychotherapists responsible for the centers for men perpetrators of violence, such as the prison of Bollate, the CAMs of Genoa, Rome and Florence and the centers active in other European countries, which represent for us models, such as Spain and Norway. We have audited the Forces of Order, in particular the Central Crime Directorate, which has designed and established the Zeus Protocol, which is delivering excellent results in all municipalities where it has been activated. Thanks to the hearing of the Director-General of the Directorate of Prisoners and the treatment of the Department of the Ministry of Justice's Penitentiary Administration, the Commission has acquired data on the treatment paths carried out within the prison institutions, in order to obtain as comprehensive a picture as possible on the dissemination and implementation of rehabilitation routes. I shall conclude, Mr President. As advisors to the Commission, some of the most important experts in this field have worked together in drafting this report, and I would like to thank you here for your work. He is Dr. Andrea Bernetti and Dr. Arturo Sica, responsible for the centers of Rome and Genoa, and Professor Emanuele Corn, associate of criminal law of the University of Trento and expert of comparative law. At the end of this complex debate, as rapporteurs, we have drawn up this new proposal for a report which is presented to this House today. In addition to the examination of projects already in existence in Italy and abroad in the field of treatment routes, there are indications on the way in which they are carried out. Senator Conzatti will make a mention of this, and I now leave the floor for the report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u6	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank those who have worked on this report. It has been a job that lasted over two years that involved professionals throughout Italy, as well as has involved many professionally and humanly also in our Commission, and in this regard I thank President Valente. Thanks must be given to the national network that operates every day: I am therefore talking about the anti-violence centers, the Forces of Order and all the specialized operators on this phenomenon. Our advisors have guided us. I quote Professor Arturo Sica is part of the first national network of men's rehabilitation centres responsible for violence, the Relive network, affiliated to the European WWP network (they are among the most experienced professionals in Europe in the phenomenon). I also remember Dr. Andrea Bernetti and Professor Emanuele Corn, who was able to enrich this report also with the experiences he gained as associate professor at a university in Chile and at a Spanish university. Yes, because in Spain in 2004 there were figures on violence similar to Italian violence. One woman in three suffers violence during her life, Istat estimates it in 7 million in Italy and always in our country a woman is killed every two and a half days. With the 2004 ley orgánica in Spain, they succeeded, by implementing a series of integrated interventions on prevention, protection, punishment and policies, to break down the numbers of violence by 50%. Therefore, our investigation, like all those of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, wants to demonstrate precisely this: on violence not only must more be done, but more can be done. We know exactly what we have to do and we have also started financing these activities. The first funding, right on the centers for men who are the perpetrators of violence, has been allocated and is equal to 1 million euros from the so-called decree-law of August 2020. A further 9 million was allocated in the budget law for 2022. The activities can therefore begin and must start not only because it is a precise international regulatory commitment. The Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe, signed in 2011 and ratified by Italy in 2013, is State law. Articles 12 and 16 of the Convention provide that one of the actions of the integrated strategy to combat gender violence is precisely the action on men who are the perpetrators of violence. Moreover, here we must say that it is tautological: if we do not intervene on who acts violence, we will never be sufficiently effective in stopping violence against women. What has been done in Italy outside Parliament, even before Parliament, is extraordinary. The work of the centres and of the whole national network is extraordinary, just as our legal system is very good. Yet, if the figures of violence in Italy are still very high, we must say that this is not enough. At a time when we see that this is not enough, we must add a piece and an intervention. We believe that the intervention on men who are the perpetrators of violence is precisely this very important element to be implemented. The centres that today are in the North and in Central Italy carry out paths that have two sets of objectives. The first is a psycho-reducative path, to understand the motivations of violence, the patriarchal culture in which violence is generated and the techniques by which the escalation of violence can be stopped. These centres then have a network goal, in fact they are part of a large network that acts to stop violence against women. As the rapporteur, Mrs Maiorino, rightly said, these paths of reeducation have nothing to do with the criminal responsibility for the crimes of violence that are committed, but are carried out with the aim of protecting women, protecting children who too often assist and suffer violence, with the precise objective of stopping escalation as soon as possible and blocking relapses. We know that the effectiveness of these centres depends on compliance with two principles: proximity and rapid intervention. In order for this to happen, it is necessary that there are centers throughout Italy, so that men can enter it spontaneously as soon as they have the first hints of violent behavior, so that men can be sent there from all the anti-violence network, from the quaestures following the warning, from the judicial authority following the precautionary measures and so that condemned men also have to and can participate in such paths. This is provided for in the Red Code and it is important, not only for the respect of the constitutional principle of re-education of the condemned, but because when the sentence is terminated it is important that men convicted of crimes of violence that come out are not dangerous neither for their victim - although very often that woman is no longer there, she has already been killed - nor for the others. In Italy the phenomenon of violence is a serious, structural, public and transversal phenomenon. That means a lot. It is serious for the numbers, it is structural because it is based on a culture that tends, even socially than criminally, to excuse violent behaviors; it is transversal because it can concern everyone, it does not depend on the geographical area, indeed the phenomenon is unfortunately dramatically distributed in a homogeneous way on the national territory, it does not concern the type of formation of the violent man neither his work, nor his income, indeed the men who are the perpetrators of violence very often are subjects that work in other spheres of their life, on the job, and in the social. Yet, in relationships - because it is precisely in relationships that more than 80% of the phenomena of violence develop - those men act prevarication, a growing violence. It is a public phenomenon because it is true that it happens in a relationship between two subjects, a man and a woman, but they are equal dynamics in all relations of violence, they are based on the same escalation of acts and therefore it is a public phenomenon that affects everyone and must concern the Italian State. That is why resources have been allocated. The role that the centres play in the national anti-violence network must be supported by the State, because it not only protects the victims, but protects and changes the whole community, transforming our country, which today is not free from violence, while we want it to be. We want to remind women first of all: it is always and in any case the man who acts violence to be responsible and we tell women because today only 10% of women - too little - denounce violence and because they mostly suffer in silence. In one of the last reports we have drawn up, we have analyzed the files of the prosecutors in which we have read about the last two years of feminicides. Well, 65 percent of the women killed in those two years had not spoken to anyone about their situation. Women have to report, they have to talk, because we want to stop men as soon as possible. Once they've been convicted, even if we throw away the key, we haven't solved anything, we have to intervene first to prevent and protect the victims. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that any motions for resolutions to this document will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u8	Mr President, the adoption of the report on the treatment paths for men who are perpetrators of violence in affective and gender-based relations bears witness to the sense of responsibility of the members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and the great work that has been done by fellow Commissioners of all parties, in order to arrive at a shared document that goes beyond ideological fences. It is a report which analyses a serious and important issue, which unfortunately involves a great many women and which is very often linked to cultural roots which deserve a more in-depth analysis. The work done by the Commission, of which I am proud to be a member, seeks to provide answers to certain aspects of the problem. Violence against women is a widespread and structural social phenomenon, with deep cultural roots, which still permeate the relations between men and women all over the world, although in some countries the phenomenon is much more serious than others, for cultural and even religious regiments. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is also present in our country, albeit to a lesser extent than in other European countries as far as feminicide is concerned. If the mere statistical data tells us that the other European countries and the rest of the world, excluding Oceania, record percentage numbers on the feminicide superior to the Italian ones, when we get out of the statistics the situation changes, because the 99 victims of feminicide of 2019 have names and faces, have stories that no arid statistical report can tell and even a single woman victim of feminicide is unacceptable and represents an immeasurable defeat for society, because violence against women is a phenomenon that has a public dimension, not exclusively private, as is often lived by the victims and the authors of violence, is determined and fed by the imbalance in the relations of power between women and men and for this interrogation and requires a decisive and timely response from politics. I would remind you that a strong response has been and has been strongly desired by the League's Parliamentary Group. I refer to the introduction of Law No 69 of 19 July 2019, known as the Red Code. It is a law for which we fought and which represents a conquest for women who are victims of violence. [[Applause]] , because it does not merely tighten the sanctions, but provides, for the first time in Italy, an obligation to transmit immediately the news of the crime to the public prosecutor, in oral form, followed by the written one, with an acceleration of the possible adoption of measures for the protection of victims. The time factor is in fact fundamental: the speed of intervention can depend on the physical integrity of the woman or even her life. Turning to the genesis of this report, I can only welcome some of my comments and I thank the President, the Members of the Commission and the rapporteurs for taking them into account and, of course, for all the work they have done. I am pleased that a substantial part of the report has been removed from the report, covering issues that should not be discussed at school, because these are aspects that are completely unrelated to the context of the report itself and because the education of children is the responsibility of parents. The report also deleted the paragraph expressing concerns and concerns regarding Article 6 of the Code Red Law. The provision in question provides that, with regard to offences of domestic and gender violence, the conditional suspension of the sentence is, however, subject to participation in specific recovery routes in bodies or associations dealing with the prevention, psychological assistance and recovery of persons sentenced for the same crimes and that the costs arising from participation in the recovery courses (...) are borne by the sentenced person. With regard to this rule, there had been some criticalness, determined by the possibility that the deed was without economic means. This observation has been accepted in the final document and, therefore, those charges are borne by the sentenced person, as it is right that it should be. The protection and priority concern must be addressed to the victims of crime and our aim is to adopt laws that are on the side of the victims. As a League we are always on the side of the victims, not forgetting the perpetrators of the crimes, their risk of relapse and the reeducational function of the sentence. In fact, all this must be accompanied by the certainty of the penalty. I can say that in Italy there is violence against imported women, which comes from cultural roots outside our own and we only hear about them when they come to take care of the media, that is, when it is too late. It is undeniable that religious factors and millennial cultural traditions are the greatest obstacles to the removal of gender violence. We must intervene on these situations in which women are really considered, culturally, as an inferior being and of which all too often we avoid talking as if it were a taboo. Pretending not to see might be politically correct, but it is not a solution. We give voice to women, to all women, to invisible women, who also live semi-secreted at home, who go out only if accompanied and suffer forms of creeping violence, including the least visible is the impossibility to choose and decide independently of one's own life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u9	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it is in the role of food policy and building new cultural models. The report on the treatment paths for men who are the perpetrators of violence that we are about to vote on today places us in front of a rather delicate topic, which must be addressed with the intention of being able to act on the behaviour of each one and being able to provoke a change necessary to build the cultural changes place that, in the end, the goal is precisely to change the culture of the entire country. Male violence against women is a widespread social distress, with deep cultural roots; a phenomenon of a public dimension which, at last, in recent years, is treated with transparency, but which has been silenced for too long, just as the victims have been. It has already been said that one Istat study confirms that more than three out of ten women, aged between sixteen and seventy years, have experienced some form of physical or sexual violence throughout their lives. In 2021 the victims of feminicide were one every three days. These are figures that make us shudder if we think about the country we want to be and the emancipation that we believe we have. Unfortunately, even today, the reluctance with which men's violence against women is punished is perceptible. While it is true that the ius corrigendi exercised in the family by the husband towards his wife has come out of Italian jurisprudence, we can still feel its cultural influence because - unfortunately - this imbalance of power between women and men has been part of our way of life for too long. The role that man and woman play in society is not defined at birth, as each society establishes the rules by which a man and a woman should behave. The problem must therefore be tackled with intense and convincing cultural action, with the help of the operators involved and their specific competences, with the objective of the definitive eradication of this behaviour. The pain of the victims will in fact be elaborated over time and the internal suffering will remain forever. For this reason, a decisive and timely response to the Government is required. Data show that men who exercise violence against women tend to become increasingly aggressive and, in the absence of intervention, relapse into 85% of cases. In order to carry out the interruption of violent behavior, the centres concerned with re-education aim first of all to make men understand what are the violence and the indelible pain caused to the victims, and to develop in them the skills necessary to recognize and manage those lives that generate anger and violence, in order to avoid relapse and escalation. It is therefore essential to focus on the treatment of men who are perpetrators of violence with targets: to stop the escalation of violence already in the first spy behavior; to sanction in accordance with the constitutional principle of reeducation of the condemned; to reduce the high rate of recurrence among the perpetrators of violent behavior. The Istanbul Convention, which aims to eliminate all forms of gender-based violence, promotes the treatment of men who are the perpetrators of violence, with a view to preventing new violence and changing violent behaviour, and identifies the creation of re-education pathways as one of the key interventions of the strategy to combat domestic and gender-based violence. Today in Italy men who are the perpetrators of violence face different destinies, depending on the geographical location of their residence. In fact, there are few specialised centres to which they can turn, not widely distributed on the territory, without accreditation and public funding that, in order to exist, must offer paid services. The centres should instead be spread everywhere on the territory, with uniform standards and be financed in such a way that they can offer services up to the goal: to the perpetrators of violence and their families who voluntarily turn to them, to the Quaestors and to the magistrates who send them to the centers and also to the prison structures. Among the dedicated centres, I would like to focus on the Italian Centre for the Promotion of Mediation (CIPM) that was born in Milan in 1995 and since 2018 exists also in Cagliari, the Italian Centre for the Promotion of Mediation and Reparative Justice (CIPM Sardinia), formed by various professionalism. The CIPM and the CIPM Sardegna in 2021 carried out a project together: "Interventions aimed at the perpetrators of gender violence and in affective relations". In this regard there is also an operating toll-free number H24 throughout the region, but that is not enough. The centres in Italy are very few. The resources must be allocated with accreditation; it is necessary to create proximity centres so that man, at the first signs of discomfort, can go to the nearest centre. In conclusion, Mr President, it would be desirable for all the relevant legislation to be rapidly approved and to be included in a specific title of a single text dedicated to the fight against gender violence and the promotion of a society free from violence against women. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u11	We greet - and I do so with real pleasure, since it has not been happening for two years and two months - teachers and students of the first grade secondary school "Mother Camilla Gritti" of Carbonia in the province of Carbonia-Iglesias. [[Applause]] This return to normal comforts us, finally!
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u12	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, male violence against women is a widespread and structural social phenomenon with deep cultural roots that still permeate the relations between men and women around the world as well as in our country. It is a phenomenon that has a public and not exclusively private dimension, as it is often experienced by the victims and by the perpetrators themselves of violence, determined and fueled by the imbalance in the relations of power between women and men and that is why it questions and requires a decisive and timely response from politics. Those who act violently against women tend to become increasingly aggressive and, in the absence of intervention, relapse into 85% of cases, so those who manage to find themselves, without help, a balance after a first episode of violence, are, unfortunately, a small minority. The consequences of violence on the lives of victims women are serious and have both immediate and long-term effects; they also result in suffering and trauma for children. To further aggravate this dynamic, violent behavior can be learned by children and replicated even after many years. According to Istat, many of the men who were authors have in turn been victims and witnesses of child violence. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report, which I am honoured to be part of, through a complex work of knowledge, surveys in some centres active on national territory and a long cycle of hearings of national and international experts with diversified competences, has analysed the problem of the recovery of men who are perpetrators of violence in the light of the current regulatory framework, with particular regard to the possible introduction of specific rehabilitation and rehabilitation pathways, and now proposes some indications for a structured intervention to combat violence against women and aimed at the establishment of a national network of centres which has the clear purpose of its action: to work on authors to increase the safety, support and protection of victims' rights. It has already been mentioned in the Istanbul Convention, so I do not take it back. On the other hand, I would like to stress that the international landscape offers a series of programs and projects, aimed at men who are the perpetrators of violence, born between the end of the seventies and the beginning of the eighties in the Anglo-Saxon countries and then adopted a few years later also in some countries of Northern Europe, particularly in Norway. However, even in countries where violence is being combated in the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, intervention on the perpetrators of violence is still not widespread. During the hearings, the president of the association Centro di ascoltante per uomo maltreatanti di Firenze, as well as the president of the association Relive, referring to the realities present in Europe, described four different approaches of intervention. Firstly, the model initiated directly by the judicial system through testing, with programmes developed by institutional operators within prisons; secondly, the model that is based on responses focused more on the family, because they take charge of women, men and children, that is the whole family, and that is prevalent mainly in the area of the Centre and Northern Europe; thirdly, programs that, instead, address men directly through a cultural and social responsibility and, finally, a more focused response on pathologising the problem and that therefore goes to identify more centrally the clinical-medical aspects. On the whole, however, there are some elements which are common to all interventions. In fact, there is a first phase of evaluation of the risk and the actual chances of positive outcome of the psycho-socioeducational path that the author of violence should undertake. The participant is invited to sign an agreement as an assumption of responsibility, which establishes the rules of conduct that he will have to respect in order to be entitled to complete the entire program. As modus operandi the group work is mainly used, which can sometimes be accompanied by additional support of individual sessions. It should be pointed out, however, that none of these programmes involves the use of couples' therapies or family mediations. These approaches, in fact, are expressly excluded from the Istanbul Convention, as they are considered inappropriate instruments in cases of domestic and gender violence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in order to outline the range of rules in our system, it is useful to propose a division which concerns their recipients, i.e. the perpetrators of violence. A first group of recipients is the convicted persons, detained for crimes related to the beehive of violence against women. We are in a sector that is experiencing a strong phase of evolution, confirmed by the recent legislative intervention, Law No. 69 of 2019, the so-called red code, which has further amended Article 13- bis of the Law on penitentiary law, now classified "Psychological treatment for those sentenced for sexual crimes, for ill-treatment against family members and cohabitants, for persecutory acts, aligning the national legislation to the highest international standards. The second group of recipients includes those who are not currently in prison, but by virtue of their actions they could enter or have just left. To date, the subject returned to freedom finds little continuity in relation to the one received in prison, although it is one of the most at risk for the victim, because of the possible relapses. Specific measures are lacking, which should be envisaged by deepening the study of Norwegian experience and the model that is characteristic of this community. Referring to the reformulation of article 163 of the penal code and a direct testimony of the experience at the Milan court, this legislation has made explicit in Italy and mandatory the possibility, already provided for in the first paragraph of article 165 of the penal code, but entrusted to the sensitivity of the individual judge, to subordinate the granting of the suspension to the elimination of the harmful or dangerous consequences of the crime. The third group of potential stakeholders is men who are the perpetrators of violence, but who have not been denounced (most of them), or who have not yet been subject to restrictive measures. It seems necessary to guarantee the opportunity to offer paths to these people who are the largest part of the perpetrators of violence, since in this case they would operate in genuine prevention of the crime, rather than in its punishment or posthumous correction. In the light of these considerations, as has been mentioned, specific funds have been allocated, even at the initiative of the Commission, in the budget law. It is of fundamental social importance but also of political importance to reiterate that the prevention of violence in domestic and gender relations, which is the main aim of the treatment paths on men authors, aims to promote and preserve positive and non-violent relational modalities and to avoid the emergence of ill-treatment phenomena in society. Prevention, however, takes on different characteristics depending on the time frame it is intended to embrace. There is a so-called primary prevention, which concerns interventions to maintain a state of well-being and the absence of situations of violence or its promotion. There is a secondary prevention, which consists of interventions aimed at situations where violence is in a state of potentiality or at the early stages of the escalation process. Finally, there is a tertiary prevention, which concerns interventions to combat the violence in progress and to avoid in particular further degrees of escalation of harmful behaviour or, in the event of recurrence, the conduct of ill-treatment. A comprehensive and effective counter-violence plan must include specific preventive measures for each of these three grades and for each of the subjects involved in the phenomenon of maltreatment: the direct victim, the direct or indirect minor victims, the author of the violence, the community as a whole. The programs for the perpetrators of violence are based on the belief that people who have motivation for change should be put in a position to take a path and that the fundamental function of a community is to stimulate this motivation in people. The assumption of responsibility with respect to the behavior implemented is a prerequisite for being able to change, since, as long as the causes of one's own behavior and of one's own experiences are attributed to others or external elements, it will not be possible to be the authors of one's own change. Violent behavior must not be seen as a form of pathology, rather as the declination of a complex interweaving of social, cultural, relational, emotional and identity aspects. In particular, it is the inability to read these aspects and to bear the weight on oneself that generates violence, which ultimately resulted in the inability to think about the emotions generated by the relationship between the individual and the context. I shall conclude by saying that it would be desirable for all the relevant legislation to be rapidly approved by Parliament (in this regard we recall that the relevant parliamentary committees of the Senate are in the attention of the draft laws no. 1770 and 1868) and were included in a specific title of a single text, dedicated to the fight against gender violence and the promotion of a society free from violence against women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u15	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank my colleague Valeria Valente in a non-formal way for her role as President of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide. A thank you that I believe should also extend to colleagues Conzatti and Maiorino and to all the members of the Commission, for the valuable work they have carried out, for the amount of data analysed and for what they offer us with this report, precious for our work, but also for the country. Male violence against women in Italy is a widespread phenomenon. To tell us, it is not only the words of the rapporteurs and colleagues who preceded me and it is not only the data on the impressive numbers of the feminicides, which, with punctual frequency, animate the black chronicles of our daily newspapers and which shake our consciences. To tell us this is the society we have built and in which we live; a society in which violence against women is perpetrated continuously in domestic spaces, in jobs, in public places, in the means of transport. This dimension obliges us to consider the phenomenon of violence against women for what it is: a widespread social phenomenon that has a public dimension and which, as such, must be discussed, treated and examined as a fact that concerns society, all of us and our lives. Male violence against women cannot and must in no way be considered a female problem, a problem the solution of which falls to women. The public nature of such a large phenomenon requires a collective effort that I believe must see engaged alongside women, especially men. That is why I believe that to the valuable work that colleagues in the Femicide Commission have carried out must be added that of politics, which has a huge responsibility: to change the culture of our country. If male violence against women is still so widespread, in fact, it is because it finds roots in a culture still deeply masculinistic, in which gender imbalances are evident in too many respects. All this refers to an imbalance in the relationship of strength between women and men: it is precisely on this ground and in this context that gender violence often finds space and finds it - alas - also in the habits and actions of our children, who already among the school benches, in some cases, base the relationship between man and woman on an idea of possession and belonging, which still too often translates into acts of violence. Therefore, I believe that one of the tasks that politics must perform is precisely to intervene on the education of our children and, more generally, of the men of our society. That is why it is certainly useful to write good laws, but it is even more useful to educate our children to live a dynamic of healthy and respectful relationship with the opposite sex. At the same time, the institutions have the fundamental task of protecting women who are victims of violence: on this point I believe that the enormous work carried out on the territories by the anti-violence centres and a network of volunteers, to whom we should say our thanks every day, should be strengthened. [[Applause]] Their valuable work must be even more coordinated with the social services of our municipalities. On this side - I say this also with the long experience I have gained as mayor - it is essential to train the operators called to intervene in the face of gender violence. On this point, it may be useful to work in the near future on legislative proposals that allow greater flexibility to the network of social services of our Municipalities, structuring and strengthening also the centres dealing with the re-education of men who are the perpetrators of violence, to which the report we are debating also refers. In fact, it puts at the centre the treatment paths for men who are the perpetrators of violence in gender-related affective relationships and I believe it is useful for this House, because it moves along the path indicated by the Istanbul Convention, which - as we know - aims to eliminate all forms of gender-based violence, identifying four strategies for intervention, the famous four Ps: prevention, protection, pursuit and integrated policies. We, within this perimeter, must continue to work, because in the shortest possible time debates such as those we are holding today in this House are only a memory of which no one will have to be homesick. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u16	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to thank President Valente and Minister Bonetti here today, who always comforts us both with his presence, but also with concrete acts and solid realities. I would like to thank all my colleagues who, although they belong to different political groups, have always worked in harmony in the contradictory, which obviously belongs to us for the different groups to which we refer. We can say, however, with great pride, that all the measures have always been voted unanimously. I have been saying for years now - and I would also like to stress this to my colleagues today - that that figure is still fixed so that, about every three days, a woman is killed in Italy. In 2020, 116 women were killed and 92 percent of the murderers were known; in almost 58 percent of the cases even the partner or a former partner. These numbers are impressive, although one can hardly believe that Italy, among the European countries, is among those with the least statistical incidence of this type of crime. You think that in Latvia the incidence of women's murders is ten times that recorded in Italy. It is frustrating to note that, although protection and prevention rules have been introduced over the years, such as the red code, the number of feminicides appears stable and seemingly incomprehensible, but the safety of women is also threatened by other criminal conducts, mainly acted by men. There are thousands of sentences every year for ill-treatment in the family, injuries, beatings, sexual violence and persecutory acts and while murder cases can hardly remain unknown, there is a large number of crimes of violence against women who do not come to the knowledge of the police and the judiciary and who remain a shameful family secret and, I add, of the neighbors and teachers who are part of it, in my opinion, as accomplices, because they cannot fail to know and fail to understand what is being consumed within the domestic walls. We cannot but wonder about the reasons for so much male violence: traditions of violent and possessive patriarchy, low schooling, alcoholism, drug addiction, psychological fragility. All this makes it impossible to accept rejection, abandonment and can perhaps be the basis of these criminal behaviors of the male towards the woman. However, the area of criminal sanctions, even if necessary, cannot be the only terrain on which to play the game of combating gender violence. From this point of view, the report published by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender-based violence, on the possible pathways of psychological treatment of men who are the perpetrators of violence against women to whom they are or have been linked by emotional relationships, appears valuable. The treatment work on men responsible for violent acts is aimed at interrupting the escalation of violence already from the first spy behavior, sanctioning crimes in accordance with the constitutional principle of re-education of the condemned and still reducing the high rate of relapse. The use of these practices is based on the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women, which requires signatory States to set up or support treatment programmes to prevent recurrence, in particular for sexual offences. With regard to the legislative interventions in this field in our country, it is necessary to remember Article 5 of Decree-Law No. 93 of 2013, as amended by the law of conversion, which promotes the development and activation throughout the national territory of actions based on established methodologies and consistent with the guidelines specifically prepared for the recovery and accompaniment of subjects responsible for acts of violence in affective relations, in order to facilitate their recovery and limit the cases of recurrence. The State therefore ceases to exercise its sole punitive power and, in respect of those responsible for crimes against women, undertakes to take positive action, essentially therapeutic, in the direction of recovery also aimed at preventing the recurrence of conduct. This new approach has been reflected mainly in Article 13- bis of the Law on penitentiary law, which, in relation to crimes of ill-treatment in the family, persecuting acts and a series of sexual offences, allows sentenced prisoners to undergo psychological treatment with the aim of recovery and support. Such participation is encouraged by the fact that it is a condition for access to alternative measures to prison provided for by the law. The problem is that not all prison institutions are able to offer this service to prisoners. Of course, one wonders whether membership for convenience in these treatment activities retains its rehabilitative validity or the emptiness of meaning and effectiveness. Only the study of data on the degree of recurrence of programme participants can confirm its validity or not. In essence, the legal order, in addition to enhancing the compensation for the damage caused, now also encourages forms of self-parative conduct in the interests of both the person responsible and the victims. Over time, the system has expanded the possibility of resorting to rehabilitation programs, including suspects and defendants on the loose among possible users, always looking for incentive mechanisms of a reward nature. Sometimes, as in safety or prevention measures, the judge may also require the person responsible for acts of violence to participate in rehabilitation programmes. I believe that alongside the moment of sanctions a therapeutic and rehabilitation moment will open up new perspectives to the fight against gender violence, even if only scientific data can demonstrate the validity of this new approach to deviance. The report stresses the urgent need to draw up shared guidelines for the psychological treatment of abusive men and clear criteria for the recognition and approval of centres for the implementation of therapeutic programmes. Every effort must be made and every road must be tried, so that the domestic walls can be the place of safety and protection for all women and not the scene of vile acts of violence and abuse. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u18	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important, fundamental for our society, today more than ever disoriented and prey to unspeakable and inhumane behavior, the path addressed and extensively analysed by the Femicide Commission, to which my heartfelt and personal thanks go, on the issue of violence against women and on how to intervene, both in prevention and rehabilitation of these subjects. Human evolution, which has led us to be excellencies in many fields, has, however, been inversely proportional to the manifestation of the soul's brutishness and the dissolution of ethics, rather than its growth. Ethics that should be the backbone of every human action, from the smallest to the most complex; ethics that should be parallel to the physical and mental growth of each individual. The roots of brutality have been rooted in distant times. Violent behaviors could cling to a still crude society; they brought with them psychological constructions that were fed in cultural and urban contexts still strongly evolutionary. This is certainly not an excuse, because there is never an excuse for violence, of any kind, committed by both men and women, but it can be a consideration - allow me - lawful for a reasoning on why this dramatic issue, which does not cease to exist. Today still shows the same modus operandi of violence; perhaps the instruments have changed a bit: besides the hands, the sticks, the straps, the weapons, to much more, the violence has been somewhat refined in its cruelty, violence not only physical, but also verbal and psychological. Sometimes it is still difficult to understand where one begins, where the other ends or vice versa. If the physical one, there is no doubt, is more visible and often mortal, the psychological one is underground, sometimes not even identified. The continuous derogatory behavior made with a smile is an example of this; even the derision masked by irony, exclusion, avoidance, isolation from friends and family, the so-called constructive criticism, which instead wants to be purposely destructive, the rebuke of the adult like a child are the classic character distortions of these individuals, which deeply mark the soul, divert the path of life of those who suffer them, make the individual object of such behaviors devoid of his dignity, often unable to understand what is happening to him and equally frequent is the position of guilt he assumes. The mechanism becomes even more perverse: those who suffer abuse, physical or psychological, feel worthy of what they are subjected to; a sense of guilt and inadequacy are the consequences, such as the fear of not being understood in exposing their own discomfort, their own suffering, the fear of ridicule, shame, the fear of not finding solutions to the serious problem. Brutality feeds on this. Today, with this motion for a resolution referring to the Commission's report, it is proposed to pursue through a difficult regulatory path the aim of making the means for fighting these violence more homogeneous and structural. However, it will be necessary to address this issue in two ways, always looking at the medal on both sides, so that it does not become an instrument to exploit, but is an instrument to respect the human being in a track of lively understanding, but also of necessary awareness of how complex and multifaceted this drama is. One last thought. It is necessary to focus a great deal on teaching those who manifest violent behaviors to admit their limits, errors, cruelty; to teach them to be able to understand that they must be helped, because doing themselves, justifying themselves, saying "I don't do it anymore," "I didn't do it on purpose" or "I was misunderstood," is profoundly wrong. This will be the real challenge: to be able to expose the fragility of these men, so that they can really, where possible, undertake a rehabilitation process, interrupting the vicious and inhuman circle that feeds violence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Faith. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about feminicide, so it is right to start with a thank you to those who have done this excellent work on behalf of the parliamentary assemblies, so President Valente, our Vice Presidents - like Mrs Cinzia Leone, who is here with me - and the colleagues who are rapporteurs. Finally, I would like to say that I think I could avoid repeating what my colleagues have said a great deal, which I thank. However, I would like to point out the main theme we are talking about today, this report, which identifies the paths of treatment for men who are the perpetrators of violence. I say this as a Member of Parliament and as a man, assuming on myself and in my words the shame of the kind I am part of, which has distinguished itself for a number of feminicides that has no proportion, but also with the commitment and responsibility, as a man, to talk about this topic in order to achieve that cultural evolution that we still have to carry out today. [[Applause]] The dramatic aspect is that we, in order to identify this crime, had to create a neologism that did not exist: first we were talking about murders generically, while today we are talking about feminicides; it is a neologism created for the first time in 1992, and used in Mexico for the first time in 1994, to talk about a murder that affects a woman as a woman. This is a terrible thing and it is even more so if we think about the context in which we are, that is, the third millennium. This is a complex phenomenon to be measured and compared, but to which we must find a solution. Our vocabulary even defines feminicide as any form of violence systematically exercised on women in the name of an ideological superstructure of patriarchal matrix, in order to perpetuate their subordination and annihilate their identity through physical and psychological subjection, up to slavery and death. We must reflect on these words, because it is an absurd conception and I want to repeat it to the point of exhaustion. It's right to remember the difference between murder and feminicide. Keep in mind that Italy, fortunately, has become one of the safest countries in the world on the front of the murders, which have drastically dropped over the years. This is because we worked and fought the forms that led to the murder: the mafia, terrorism and many circumstances. But in this context, feminicides have increased, so there is a reversal of trend. This means that something is wrong in our social context and in our relationship with the other half of heaven: we are men and women around us mark our existence, our growth; mothers, wives, colleagues, our daughters. That is why we must do this job: for their safety. It cannot be thought that a woman as such should be subjected to violence, pressure and abuse linked to the natural emancipation system that we have established. Today we have a Minister sitting here who is a woman and in the highest roles of our institutions there are women. We have made this path, but it has generated that male inadequacy - I say it as a man - to be able to consider and accept a joint relationship and this triggers mechanisms that are terrible and on which we have to work, nor can we derub them to a pathology, because it is a cultural aspect and on this must intervene our work. We really must culturally overcome these discriminations, as we have done and are doing. Once in Italy - on this we must reflect, even with shame - the crime of honor was justified. Today I am proud to say that thanks to us, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, a rule has been introduced that is the code red, which is precisely to put the protection of women at the center. This is the right job to do and it is certainly not a point of arrival, but a starting point to develop, because it certainly is not enough yet. We must therefore address these issues and the commitment of all political forces to this work is necessary. I am also proud of the fact that we have set up a committee on gender equality and civil rights that focuses on these very issues. This development work is being carried out with the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, Senator Maiorino, Senator Leone, Senator Airola, and it is a work that must be done by all political forces, because we must be above all the promoters of this change. To read the impressive numbers of the last published Istat report, we can see that Italy, although it has worked on the reduction of murders, still has to make a long way on feminicide: if the murders have dropped four times from 1991 to 2019, the feminicides have increased four times and this is a clear signal that can not take us away from our commitment. The condemned are 96.6 percent men, so this work must be done firmly and this can no longer be allowed to happen, because the numbers, colleagues, Italians, are impressive. In 2021, out of 295 murder cases, 118 have as victims of women and are not related to the underworld and to all the events we said, but to those sick relationships present within the families, the protagonists are familiar and this is a terrible and strong signal. It is a trail of blood that continues and that we must interrupt and I think it is right to remember here today some names that have struck our soul, our sensitivity. To mention one of the most terrible cases, Rosa Alfieri, twenty-three, found dead inside a condominium in the province of Naples, was strangled by a neighbor and found with a dishcloth in her mouth. Daniela Cadeddu, fifty-one years old, was killed by her husband in her sleep with hammer strokes to her head. It's a terrible image, but I think it's a duty to remember it. Anna Borsa, thirty years old, was killed inside the aesthetic salon where she worked after agreeing to talk to her former partner. They are just some of the women killed in 2022 and this must no longer happen. The report drawn up by the Commission gives indications, because it certainly starts from dialogue, from the therapeutic path, from following and offering support to women who suffer abuse and to men who cause them, but I repeat that the greatest work must be done at the social level. In fact, a society that has evolved over the years cannot accept similar situations, similar to those of man with clava in prehistory. [[Applause]] This is not acceptable and - I say it as a man - it is a path that women must take as educators and as mothers, because the authors are children of women, but men must do it as a category, in being able to accept what is and must be the state of things, also because the future will lead us to be increasingly pink. The most recent studies say that over 60% of graduates and managers will be women, so if we do not solve this problem forcefully, if we do not change the cultural context, the phenomenon will only increase. This must be our job. Let's move forward, let's understand the symptoms of this tension and try to solve it and reach a healthy relationship of equality between genders, because this is the theme. Sometimes we talk about minorities, but among men and women this term does not really make sense, as in any case. We have always pointed out all the violence against any kind, even numerically inferior but relevant. We can never remain indifferent. Finally, because I do not want to go any further, I repeat that we must act according to the parameters laid down in the Istanbul Convention, which means prevention, protection, pursuit and policies. Today we are talking about politics and we must therefore set up a policy that represents the change of the nation, from the cultural point of view, that is adapted to our level. [[Applause]] , because we are one of the most evolved societies in the Western and civil world. We must therefore assume the responsibility of being its guide, of being its lighthouse and of being the first and the best. We know we have the skills and we have to do it. So, I end by thanking everyone for the work that has been done, of course, that Parliament, with all the political forces, will commit itself to using the right tones to properly represent the gender issue and not to get rid of the problem, saying that it is a pathology, because there is no scientific basis for a pathology that increases by 400 percent. It is therefore a cultural, social and political problem and we work here to solve it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u22	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that motion for a resolution No 1 has been tabled by Senators Conzatti, Maiorino, Valente, Castellone, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Rauti, Faraone, Crucioli, Unterberger and Rizzotti, whose text is being distributed. I call the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u23	Mr President, I speak very briefly just to thank all the groups, because the motion for a resolution has been signed by all the groups present, including oppositions. It was therefore an extraordinary and shared work, which marks a very beautiful page of politics and a great maturity with respect to the truly authentic will to combat violence against women. Thank you very much to all of you and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Bonetti and the Department of Equal Opportunities for their collaborative work so far and because some calls on the re-education of abusive men have already been published and so the national strategy has already begun. There is a job to be done for national accreditation, for writing national guidelines, for the centers to work on the same organisational standards and on the same levels of professional competence and we will do it together. It is a great job and today is a very important day, Mr President. I therefore thank the whole Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u25	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my special thanks to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, to the rapporteurs, to Senators Conzatti and Maiorino, and to President Valente, for the extraordinary, always timely and in-depth work they carry out on all aspects of male violence against women. Today's debate and the unanimous support for the motion for a resolution, I believe, fully confirm the commitment of our institutions to fully fulfilling the Istanbul Convention, which our country was among the first to ratify, firmly confirming its policies, in drawing up a process aimed at combating male violence against women. The contrast to male violence against women is a choice on which our country does not want to go back and we have decided it as strategic direction also of the action of government. Let me say that our Constitution and the very essence of our democracy require us to do so. As you pointed out in the debate, we wanted to do so with structural and integrated choices, with finally structural resources, as well as structural ones, is, at last, the national strategic plan to combat male violence against women. This is a plan in which, as the rapporteur pointed out, we wanted to include the implementation of Article 16 of the Istanbul Convention on the rehabilitation and treatment of men who are the perpetrators of violence. We have included it with specific actions in the prevention axis, with a monitoring action necessary for punctual verification and with strengthening actions also in the punishment axis. To this end, let me remind you - and I thank the rapporteur for doing so - of the draft law (Act No. 2530), signed by me and the Ministre Cartabia and Lamorgese, which strengthens the need and conditionality to follow these rehabilitation paths. I too hope that the Senate can proceed as soon as possible with the evaluation and examination of this bill. We have followed up on the investments that have been allocated, in structural terms, to rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres for maltreated men last year, with a first million euros that has become structural. This year we have allocated, for the year 2022, EUR 9 million, which we are sharing again. Two million euros will be allocated to the action planned by the Regions, with which we are also proceeding to define accreditation criteria for the new rehabilitation centers for mistreating men and to the definition of standard requirements and guidelines that are now particularly necessary for the effectiveness of the action itself. In the observatory to combat male violence against women that I am setting up the representation of maltreating men's centers, it is precisely to define the synergy and co-design necessary for the same strategy. I fully confirm, even as a result of this debate, my personal commitment and of the entire Government to follow up on the responsibility to which the Senate is calling us today with so much force, clarity and clarity. I believe it is an important message not only for this institution, but to be transmitted to the country and above all to the many women and - unfortunately - to the many children who, alongside and together with women, are increasingly the object of violence that violates the fundamental rights of the human being. Unfortunately, it is happening in our country and in the contexts nearby, I am thinking of the situation in Ukraine, which I believe should be recalled here today. For these reasons, I support the motion for a resolution tabled. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u27	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u30	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bonetti, the construction of instruments for the prevention and emotional re-education of abusive men is a very important aspect in the fight against violence against women. The violent personality is the result of several factors: the cultural context in which we have grown - and we all know well that Italy is marked by a patriarchy that manifests itself in many forms and that sees in violence the most serious and evident - and the family of origin, in which we learn the relational principles and are educated to emotions and their management. The report contains a significant passage, that is to say that in patriarchal societies children are educated to suppress some emotions that do not fit the expectations that society places on males. All this reminds us that, if interventions are to be developed to avoid the repetition of violent behavior, the problem is solved at the root only with social change. Violence comes from the idea that woman is subordinate to man and, if she comes out with her behavior from the perimeter of this alleged inferiority, man feels in right-duty to exercise violence. It is only by breaking the idea of man's primacy in social organization, in family life and in couple relationships that the foundations of violence are removed. This is demonstrated by data from other countries: the more women are included in the social and working context and the more men are involved in family care work, the fewer cases of violence. Here, then, Minister Bonetti, the commitment concerns several plans: the introduction of positive actions to promote women's participation in social and political life; the employment one, with the contrast to unequal pay for the inclusion and maintenance of women in the world of work after the birth of a child; the effective growth of the younger generations to develop healthy and respectful relationships of women; the one to counter gender stereotypes, still very strong in media performances; the one against gender hatred, a dramatic theme especially on digital platforms and for which there is still no crime; and, of course, the plan of repression of violence, also through the formation of the Forces of Order and the sanitary ones that - as we know - are often an expression of a culture that minimizes phenomena and blames victims. To conclude, Minister, progress has been made in recent years: I am thinking of the legislation of the code red which - as the report says - is the basis of some experiments in the recovery of violent men, and not only, in prisons. I am thinking of the greatest attention to gender hatred on shameful events such as those of the Alps in Rimini. I am also thinking of the setting up of this Commission, which does valuable work in relation to the work of the Government and Parliament. However, if we ask ourselves how the condition of women has changed in recent years, this has worsened: Covid's fault certainly, which clearly showed how unbalanced our society is. If, then, we look up to the world, from Afghanistan to the war in Ukraine, the first to be the object of violence and to be stripped of the most basic rights are always women. Then, Minister, there is little to be satisfied with. As we have said so many times, it will be a long battle, which must be faced with the awareness that violence and inequality are two sides of the same coin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u33	ANGRISANI (CAL-ALT-PC-IDV). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Commission for all the work I have done. And a thank you goes also to the reporters. I am voting in favour of this report by my group, which wanted to give a pioneering approach to preventing violence against women. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we really need a 360 degree approach to combat this scourge; therefore, it was unthinkable to leave out the author of the violence. After deepening the subject with the support of experts, it emerged the need for an implementation and regulatory regulatory framework at national level, which networking the system of centres for the treatment of men who are perpetrators of violence, thus providing guidelines, specialisation and organizational standards of homogeneous treatments. The report highlights the need for a strategy for prevention, protection and punishment, including by working on the recovery of men who are the perpetrators of violence. To do this, however, we need rules that can convey unequivocally the message that violence against women is a problem not of women, but of men, so as to beat the gender stereotype of man who never asks for help. Italy has arrived late to constitute this path, despite the Istanbul Convention - ratified in 2013 by our country - expressly provides that one of the main pieces is that of the re-education of maltreating men within an integrated strategy of prevention of gender violence and protection of victims, i.e. women and minors, to avoid escalation and recurrence. It is necessary to trace the causes, face them openly and work to eradicate the culture in which violence against women finds fertile ground. It is our duty to do everything possible to stop the violence from its first manifestation, without waiting for the escalation to reach its most dramatic peak. This is the goal of listening centers for abusive men. There is, however, a need to work, despite considerable progress, on all nodes of the network because they are moving in sync and, therefore, to support the public services that deal with victims by leaving the logic of delegation to the private sector, taking up the public function of such actions that fall within the essential levels of assistance. In addition to the training of centres, it is also important to be able to rely on experienced operators who are able to adequately recognise and welcome the perpetrators of violence in top-level services. Many situations, in fact, run the risk of remaining submerged because this work is point-shaped or not well organized on the territory. Surely the data tells us that many authors, before turning to the centers, are users of mental health services, social services, consultors and can be intercepted in multiple situations. It is therefore essential to strengthen these network nodes to engage men, focus violence and motivate them to start working on themselves. Helping men who mistreat, beat, molest, kill women is not a contradiction, but is the only solution to eradicate at the root the germ of gender violence. If we do not address the problem at the base, that is from the point of view of the abusive man, the result of stereotypes and a patriarchal and masculine vision well rooted in society, the interventions will never be sufficient to compensate the consequences of their actions and protect women. That is why I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the CAL Group's vote in favour of the report on abusive men. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u36	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, like other Members, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Bonetti for the work she is doing in this parliamentary term; Mr Valente, who is leading a Commission which is doing her work very well; the rapporteurs, Senators Conzatti and Maiorino; all the Members of the Commission, but also the men who have decided to take part in this sitting, giving a signal that I believe is important, and that talking about these issues is not a matter for women. [[Applause]] I also consider it important that there has been a participation with a presence, because in the past, when dealing with issues such as these, the nature of the House changed and was characterized by the presence of women alone, with men absolutely absent and distracted. I believe that the great cultural leap made in recent years is that we men are here, we intervene, we put our face and we say that these issues belong to us, they concern us directly. I believe that there have been a lot of progress in this parliamentary term. I believe that important laws have been passed on issues relating to gender-based violence. However, I believe, Mr President, that we must not be content with adopting laws, because unfortunately they are often too late within the domestic walls where violence takes place. We must make a further effort, which I believe is the basis of the report that we will be voting on today and of the work we have done over the last few months. In other words, we must be able to build a prevention path; otherwise we will always be commemorating victims, we will be crying over children who are orphans and we will not have avoided a phenomenon that, unfortunately, is widespread and affects about 7 million women who suffer violence. This means that there are 7 million men who do violence and either we act on those 7 million men or we risk putting in place measures perhaps commercials, which fill us with pride for having communicated them well, but which then do not produce concrete results. The theme is therefore how we build the prevention paths, because then we see that 50 percent of men, who without shame and with maturity decide, after the first or the second gesture of violence, to put in place a recovery path, no longer perform violence, change life, change attitude. This means that prevention pathways work. Now the theme is how to enhance them and how to make them understand that that is a natural path, a path of maturity. It is important that man decides not to be ashamed of the awareness acquired and that society accepts that awareness, without criminalizing it and without pointing his finger at it. If we make this journey, this cultural leap, we will have solved the problem at its root. Education counts so much, so much the school counts, it counts to scratch a patriarchal model of our society, which is the basis of everything that happens. When there is a proprietary conception of women, when there is the hierarchical idea of man about women, when there is this culture then violence comes out. I believe that from this point of view we can do so much and we have already done so much with the approved laws. We must be able to put in place all the prevention routes that allow us to finally be able to talk about the theme of feminicide as a theme that must be eradicated. This is a crime that I think has never experienced a reduction in numbers; unfortunately the number of feminicide offences and acts of violence against women is always high and always growing. It is therefore a dangerous phenomenon, which must be dealt with harshly. I want to thank you for the work you have done and I believe that this House will have the maturity to use the legislative year before us to carry out other acts such as the one we are discussing, which will enable us to make a cultural leap. Thanks again and good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u38	Mr President, today we are all committed to reaffirming the commitment of the Senate and Parliament to combat violence against women: an alarming phenomenon which, despite the constant commitment of the institutions, cannot be eradicated and, unfortunately, seems to be on the increase. Nothing is more hateful than violence against women and - I would add - even against children, who are sometimes victims of the violence they are witnessing. Brothers of Italy shares the conclusions of the report under discussion, with particular regard to the need to regulate on the basis of homogeneous standards, to coordinate and above all to strengthen the centres for the treatment of men who are the perpetrators of violence; centres which have so far been established in a spontaneous and leopard-spotted manner on national territory. The action of these centres is fundamental both for the prevention itself, when the violence is still in the potential state, but the so-called spy behaviors that announce it are already manifested, and to intervene when the violence is in place, in order to prevent further degrees of escalation of violent acts and, above all, the cases of recurrence, which - as is well known and many colleagues have already mentioned - are also very often the most serious episodes. The available statistics show that the relapse in crimes against women is very high: we are talking about 85%. But we also know, thanks to the many studies mentioned in the report, that proper treatment, especially if carried out on as voluntary a basis as possible, can lead to the reduction of relapse by up to half, i.e. up to 50%. For this reason it is important that the treatment is also ensured during the execution of the sentence, as required by the reform of the prison order, approved under the so-called red code. But it is even more important that this treatment is not interrupted at the time of release, as unfortunately happens too often. It should therefore be stressed that the report rightly points out that it is precisely at the time of the return to freedom that the greater the risk to the victim is. It is important to remember - as the report does - the good practice of the Milan court, which has activated the sending of perpetrators of violence to specific territorial recovery programmes. Another fundamental instrument, also introduced with the code red, is the new discipline of article 165 of the penal code, which subordinates the granting of the conditional suspension of the sentence, in cases of conviction for crimes of sexual violence, stalking, domestic violence and so on, to the participation of the guilty person in specific recovery paths; more reason - in our opinion - to enhance the centers that are responsible for this objective. Many others would be the ideas for reflection offered by the report, on which there is no time to dwell. I would just like to stress that most of the Brothers of Italy agree with them and, for this reason too, we shall be voting in favour of the resolution which refers to the report. However, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I should like to express some concerns about the apodittic statement that - I quote on page 43 of the report - it is precisely the patriarchal model within which individual acts of violence against women develop. Attributing to the patriarchal model, which in Italy no longer exists for decades, the main or even exclusive cause of violence against women seems to me to be too reductive and risks underestimating, if not ignoring, other triggering factors, much more current and insidious, that originate more from the loss of every model of value reference, induced by nihilism and relativism of this modernity, than from a patriarchal culture now disappeared and outdated; or worse still means focusing all the attention on the patriarchal model, as if it were a scapegoat, and ignoring the negative influence of traditions and religious beliefs outside Europe that assign to women a role - yes - anthropologically, I would say almost biologically, inferior and that produce - these yes - sexism and masculism as a necessary result. It will mean something, colleagues - for example - if 42% of the sexual violence in Italy is committed by foreigners, who - as is well known - are only 10% of the population, especially of North African origin; or if 33% of the abuse in the family, or even 71 percent of the crimes of induction and exploitation of prostitution are once again committed by foreigners. Perhaps an additional reflection by the Commission on these figures would have been helpful, in my opinion and in our opinion. I conclude with a final critical remark: in the report we read, on page 24, that among the factors that would facilitate violent behavior there would be - I quote - the static and rigid vision of male and female gender identities. I believe that this statement is not only unfounded, but also misleading and the result of an ideological forcing which in this report is frankly untrue. Respect for and enhancement of the male and female identity are, in our opinion, the most solid prerequisite on which the mutual acceptance of the natural differences between the two sexes is built, to be understood as an opportunity for mutual enrichment through complementarity, obviously on the basis of the absolute equality of rights and duties. On the contrary, it is from the claim of ignoring differences and making everything fluid, homogeneous, neutral and homologable, which opens the way to the lack of respect for the other and to all forms of violence. In any case, even in the presence of these questionable elements, which are fortunately marginal, we agree entirely with the report and, therefore, we will vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I can only congratulate the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence, thanking it for the work it has done and which it continues to do not only in the case of this report. I particularly thank the two rapporteurs, Senators Maiorino and Conzatti, for their thorough work. I would like to thank the President, recalling the presentation of last week's report on the victimisation of women who are victims of violence, which was a very important contribution. Great progress is being made in this parliamentary term. The credit goes to the great work done within the Commission and of course also to the fact that in the Government - and I thank the Minister for this - this work has been fully used, taking so many steps forward to attack - I use a violent word - a phenomenon that unfortunately in our country - as someone has already said - continues to be a trail of blood from which we can not fully free ourselves. We must have the ability to examine it well and to put in place all possible instruments because we risk identifying it as an almost structural element. I turn to my colleague who criticized the statements made in the report. This phenomenon is closely linked to a cultural approach still unfortunately of a patriarchal and masculine type in our country. It is convenient to think that this blood trail, violence against women, can be a phenomenon that we have imported from other cultures. It is an alibi that does not lead us to look within ourselves, in our society, within the framework of our cultural and family models, which obviously, despite the great work that is being done, continue to be quite present. I say here some things that are the heart of the problem for me. We must do a great deal of work, and that is why debates, reports, investigations and anything we can do. First of all, we must continue unceasingly in a great cultural and political battle aimed at changing these models. The school is the central element; at the very moment when it is educated, it is possible to put on the field an idea of sentimental education of the relationship with others, of the relationship between the sexes, and it is done since childhood. This is something that we know well and which the Commission has always stressed. We come to the report and the precise indications it gives us, moving clearly in the wake of the famous four Ps of the Istanbul Convention. Taking care of men who are the perpetrators of violence means intervening to try to prevent - it can also be a way to prevent - and above all to put in place tools to prevent so-called relapses, because it is not just a matter of education. It also means identifying, thanks to the centres, in a work that can be done in a more articulated and complex way, the first signs, which are always and constantly underestimated. Often, in sentimental relationships, in relationships of love or relationship, the first sign of violence or possession is exchanged almost as a sign of love and one cannot grasp the possible roots of much more violent behavior. Therefore, the role of the centres is not only to intervene when those who have already committed violence have been identified, but also to be able to identify the first signs and prevent violence. The idea of specialised centres, of putting instruments and resources in the field - as we have already done in the two previous budget laws - and of this I thank Senators Conzatti and Maiorino who have dealt particularly with the issue - is not - as I have sometimes heard - a way in which, while there are feminicides and there are women who are victims of violence, we deal with the abusers and the perpetrators of violence. Instead, it is part of the strategy of fighting without neighbourhood, prevention and intervention, to prevent recurrence. I consider it one of the structural elements within the overall strategy, recalling the Istanbul Convention and the four Ps. And it is no coincidence that it is also within the strategic plan developed by the government itself. It is clear that we are at the beginning of this approach and it is not easy. We need a cultural revolution. We need to make sure these centers can grow. The specialized centres to be contacted today are very few - for this reason I asked first the data to Senators Conzatti and Maiorino - but they already have good results. They are small centres in number, and perhaps in staff and, in particular, in localization: we always have this problem in our country, so we have to do a much more accurate and profound job to make sure that they can be found in all areas of the country, even in the most complex ones. We are announcing our vote in favour of this resolution, because we need a qualitative leap. Why are we having this debate today? Why bring this report to the House? Why make sure that the Government, which is present, can fully understand the indications? You need to overcome this gap, which is numerical but also of quality. I also think it is very important that the criteria for accreditation have been mentioned in the speech by the Minister, because it is not necessary to improvise, because it is a very delicate work, and all the intervention programmes must be taken care of. The qualitative leap is therefore necessary and I think that it can be a valid help to continue the battle, knowing however that the real fundamental question on which we must continue to concentrate - these are all instruments, I repeat - is the profound cultural and political change of family and relationship models, to finally put in the attic the patriarchal and masculist model that continues - alas - to be dominant in our country, and not only. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution by the Senators of the LEU-Ecosolidali Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u44	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I am taking two minutes to the explanation of vote as a senator of the PD - which my party will allow me - to thank, as President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, particularly the two rapporteurs. It has not been a simple job - as has already been said - and I believe that we have arrived and arrived thanks to the determination, genuine passion and competence of our two rapporteurs, but also - I mean and I am proud as President - to the will and willingness of all Commissioners and Commissioners not to give up on saying theirs, even with a cultural approach that is often very different, and to do so in constructive, dialogue and respectful tones. I believe that this is a good signal for the whole policy, for the work of this House. [[Applause]] , and I personally, as President, am proud of that. I also thank the Offices, which have always supported us, and also for the dialogue, outside the Commission, with associations and networks, which are always valuable to us, which have not damaged criticism and have addressed them in a constructive way. Thank you all so much. I will now try to say, as a senator of the Democratic Party, because for me, for us as a Democratic Party, this report can really mark a change of pace and a qualitative leap that has been in more parts and in more interventions taken. Many have recalled the Istanbul Convention and I say to everyone that the Convention is the law of this State, but also the Grevio and many other international institutional operators often remind us that that Convention is largely unimplemented. With this report we commit the Senate and the Government to follow up another of the articles, one of the most important, of that Convention: Article 16. We are implementing another part of the Istanbul Convention, which imposes a qualitative leap on all of us. I would like to focus, in the time available to me, on what is the qualitative leap we are making today in this report. I say this and I do not want it from Senator Balboni, for whom I have great esteem: there is no ideological approach. You need to know the phenomenon to talk about it and understand what we're talking about. The leap in quality is in considering that even today in our country, too many times in the classrooms of justice, in the stories that gives it the press, but above all in the dynamics between men and women, we are always going somehow to the X-rays, to go through the sieve, under the magnifying glass, within a dynamic of violent relationship, the behaviors of the woman. We are always wondering what he did, what his behavior was, what his habits were, what the mistakes were, and how and how he could determine the violent behavior of man, who was the author of an evidently criminal behavior. This is the error of approach that we have committed and it is certainly the result of a society still deeply and dramatically anchored to stereotypes and prejudices. You, Senator, will not want to call it a patriarchal society, but I find it hard to find a term that makes the concept more and better. It is that dynamic relationship in which a man still feels essentially to exercise and affirm his identity through the exercise of power and the availability of freedom, autonomy and above all of the body of women, which continues to be not only - as we see in this neighboring war - a loot, symbol of domination and possession (it is not only something that is still being questioned in terms of self-determination and freedom, otherwise we would not feel the Court of Justice of the United States calling into question the right to abortion), but there is still this will to assert a power and a way of being in the world in that dynamic relationship through the domination and availability of a body. Today's news reports that a more or less famous singer has been groped by a woman right now. I rushed to say that it is always condemnable and it is always a crime, if someone allows himself to abuse a freedom not granted, then he must be condemned, but you must be careful to read that fact within a dynamic that is exactly the same, because it is not, because it is the numbers themselves that nail us. I have kindly spoken with Senator Romeo on more than one occasion about this: of course, women can also use violence against men, but numbers nail us to a correct reading. If in 95 percent of cases men exercise violence against a woman, it means that it is a phenomenon, it is not a sporadic episode. [[Applause]] It is as a phenomenon that you have to read it and try to attack it and - I guarantee you - nothing has to do with ideology. It has to do with the fact that, if a man is questioned, when he has been the author of violence, he tends to say that it is the responsibility of the woman, who is the one who provoked him, and he struggles to recognize what his limits are and that responsibility is solely his. This is exactly what our report is about today. No pietism, of course, but firm condemnation and sanction of that behavior and also awareness of the need to work on the assumption of responsibility by men and these are the paths to which we refer. These are the hearings that have given us important and valuable testimonies and this is the work that has been initiated in many cases. We have read that, as was recalled, when this path works, the escalation of violence is interrupted and especially those perpetrators of violence do not commit exactly the same crime. Attention, however: in this regard too, it must be made clear that we do not work on men who are the perpetrators of violence so that they can return to that report as if nothing had happened, because this would be a very serious mistake. We think that man must change his relationship with all affective and sentimental relationships, not just with that relationship. This will never win a woman back into that reaction, but it will always be her free and autonomous choice to assess whether, how and when to do so. That is why we say that the centres that work on abusive men must also make autonomous paths, which do not concern women, but they look at and ask men above all to assume their responsibilities. This is the focus and cultural leap of this report, from which I believe that not only clear words come in terms of installation, but also a timely and precise photograph of the progress made in our country and of the delays, of course. Above all, at the end of the report, as usual, according to the Commission's own task, we give directions to Parliament and make a request to the Government, knowing that we find in an attentive and sensitive Minister, who obviously will never stop thanking for the timely and precise work that it does, but also throughout the Government (as shown by the last bill that we will try to approve as soon as possible), interlocutors who will take advantage of these indications. In conclusion, our request is above all that these centres work on defined quality standards, with specialized personnel, according to pre-defined objectives, but also in a consolidated network, which takes into account, for example, all the valuable work that anti-violence centres do on the very important and irreplaceable risk assessment of that author of violence. It is true that the code red provides that we can grant benefits in the course of execution of the sentence, in place of the sentence, post-penalty and even pre-penalty (now that the bill speaks of admonition). We can give benefits if these men participate in paths, but we say something more: it is not enough to participate; it is necessary that these men be evaluated and the final evaluation of that path must meet shared and homogeneous quality standards. This report does not even take a step back from the thorniest issues: voluntaryness, compulsory travel, public-private and financing. I say a word about this last aspect and I conclude: financing is important, we have done a battle and some senators have done it - of this must be given recognition and merit - and it is important that there is public funding, in support of the project and the centres. We think that even the individual can and should participate, but be careful never to generate a war between the poor. Anti-violence centers are still very underfunded. We don't need a war between the poor, but we need to invest more resources. Countries that are ahead of us and have had important results show that the resources invested in the fight against violence are mainly those destined to the anti-violence centers and also to the recovery centers of the abusive men, but above all to great and extraordinary campaigns of awareness. I believe that, if we are talking about cultural battle, today we finally give our legs to what we always ask, saying: no more repression, we need to do a cultural battle. Today we clarify what a cultural battle and a change of perspective mean: we ask men to assume responsibility and we no longer put women's behaviors in the spotlight. Women believe and men ask for a qualitative leap. Luckily, I think it's time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u47	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no war between the sexes, but there is a system in which one gender is granted privileges and prerogatives at the expense of another. It is a system in which being a woman exposes to risks, discrimination, injustices and problems only because of being a woman, even more so if she is poor or belonging to minorities. This is not a topic of discussion: this is what the figures on employment, wages, the presence in politics and places of power and also those on violence, which have been before everyone for some time now. When you decide to tell some stories, you must always try to be objective. When dealing with issues like these, it is more necessary than ever to reiterate that the priority in the narrative is only one: the experience of the victim. You see, violence is not only physical, but it also lies in the words of Mr Cateno De Luca, who offends, with words unworthy to be repeated, Mr Matilde Siracusano, because it is easier to attack a woman than to show her failure. [[Applause]] This is what happens to most men, who commit verbal and physical violence against women. In a democratic country and a state of justice that aims at the recovery of the person, the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, in this report, wanted to address an important issue, which looks to the future and to the solutions. We have had the opportunity to ascertain, in this investigation, that there is a possibility of recovery. There are specific listening centers that do extraordinary work, which could be described by the famous image of the stone thrown into a pond, because recovering even one man means saving dozens of women: recovering a violent man is a social theme. Working only on women is a critical issue: this seems to be the central point of the issue, because it is they, the victims, who have the whole burden of getting out of the spiral of violence. It is up to them to manage the emotional and legal load and the reconstruction of a family. Men think that women use the complaint as a weapon of revenge, but of course it is not so: that's why they become nasty; they fail to understand the real reason and exacerbate their abusive attitude. This feeling of resentment, not being able to recognize the violence perpetrated, unleashes in them the persecutory attitudes that the chronicle tells us often. One thing that unites them is seriality: a violent man with a woman will be violent with all women: it is an attitude that does not change itself, unless there is an awareness. Few men today spontaneously decide to get help. Most of the time women are victims of violence who try to ask for help not only for themselves, but also for the author of the oppressions. The work of awareness often takes place in a group; it is in comparison with others that these men are recognized. An example for everyone, who particularly impressed me during the stories we have heard, are the stories of these men, who do not know what fear is. Behind domestic abuse, there are often children who have witnessed the beatings on their mother or have themselves been the victims. [[Applause]] To leave the possibility, always and only in case the child wanted it, to sew a relationship with the own parent is a road that must not be precluded, but not imposed, as unfortunately some juvenile judges do, on the advice of social workers and not psychologists. This virtuous reality is part of a process of liberation from violence against women: to lend a hand to the culprit. In order to give women the right to safety, men must become aware of themselves. For this reason, the report also provides some regulatory solutions for existing centres to succeed. The report, which was very well organised and voted unanimously after a heated debate, convinced all the Commissioners, because the points which were initially not shared were removed. We have reached unanimity because we have come to stifle some ideological approaches, obviously not shared. I thank the President, Senator Valente, the Offices and all the Commissioners for this. [[Applause]] I belong to Forza Italia, a liberal and non-justifiable party. Precisely for this reason, I firmly believe in rehabilitation during the sentence, which must not affect the reduction of the sentence. On this issue, as for other violence (I unfortunately remember a case of group rape from many years ago, whose perpetrators were never sent to trial for continuous testing), we must not forget that there is a torturer and a victim, who has more rights than the murderer. The torturer's rehabilitation must never be put on the same footing as the victim's rights. Unfortunately, the exaggeration of certain recent episodes means that true violence loses its sense of horror when one makes the whole grass a bundle. For these reasons, I strongly announce the vote in favour of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u50	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Bonetti, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the year there have been 21 cases of feminicide, which perhaps could have been avoided if action had been taken in time and prevented. However, the victims are many more, because these women were, in turn, wives, mothers, daughters and sisters. It is precisely from the point of view of prevention that the resolution we are voting on here today is put forward. Unfortunately, the centres for the recovery of abusive men are too few, not online and distributed in a non-homogeneous way on our national territory. The data are alarming: without psychotherapeutic help, violent people tend to carry out aggressive acts more and more serious and with a very high recidivism, equal to 85 percent. The study of the data collected by the Milan police station from 2018 to 2021, on a case study of 381 people admonished and invited to attend the rehabilitation centers, tells us that the relapse, after at least an interview in a center, is equal to 10 percent poor, compared to that, equal to 20 percent, of those who have never presented themselves to the appointment. The causes of violence are known: socio-cultural, relational, psychological and behavioral factors; therefore, what better method to combat the phenomenon of violence, if not an intervention in schools of every order and degree, able to teach respect for neighbour, animals and the environment around us? The teaching of overcoming any type of stereotype, genre, race or physicality: all this certainly does not replace the final vowel with an asterisk [[Applause]] , but instilling in young minds the axiom that one's freedom ends when one invades the space - and therefore freedom - of one's neighbor or family. There are many cases of torturers who, in their youth or childhood, have been victims of violence, direct or assisted. Precisely for this reason, the approach of the centers with the user does not identify him as suffering from pathology, but as incapable of managing the social, cultural, relational and emotional aspects that he is experiencing, helping him to overcome his taboos, but at the same time assessing the actual danger; all, however, always aimed at the full protection of the weak subjects who live next to him. Important is the accreditation of the centers to ensure that the professionalism expressed is qualified and functional to the effective rehabilitation of the subject. The data collected must be put online and - as perorated by the report - cannot and must not be protected by privacy, of course by having the data subject sign a consent form. It is news of yesterday that Marco, Turinese suffering from pathological narcissism, denounced by the family after years of abuse and angeries - which had pushed the family even to flee and hide from him - after a rehabilitation path at a rehabilitation center, he got back on track and, even if at a distance of different time, he began to have normal relations with his parents and his younger brother. There is still no scientific data on the real effectiveness of the recovery pathways of men who are the perpetrators of violence. Nevertheless, it is evident that the attendance of these centres is certainly always a help and never a damage, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important to credit new centres throughout Italy and above all to network the data collected. Any new information is certainly useful to analyze and frame the potential danger of an individual; if shared with the competent authorities, perhaps to prevent a new tragedy. In conclusion, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, the President, all the Commissioners and the Commission's offices on feminicide for the deepening and great commitment they have made in drafting the report. I agree with those who have said before that this resolution, signed by all the parliamentary groups, is really a good political page today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u53	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, Minister, it is with satisfaction and enthusiasm that I am speaking for the approval of this important report prepared by the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, which has been taken care of in the front line by Mrs Maiorino and Mrs Conzatti. With this document and with the information, insights and lines of action contained in it, we give our country new tools to overcome, prevent and combat violence against women. This is a new approach - which we like to call pioneering - but which does not exist only in theory. The treatment paths for abusive men have already given important results; as well as on the direct protection of the victim, we work on the author of the violence, to change his behavior. If we fail to do this in a widespread way, we will not be able to say that we have done everything in our power. We must intervene on the problem upstream in order to stop the feminicide, all forms of violence against women, as well as assisted violence, that which assists children, the result of a deeply compromised intimate relationship. The work we are examining here today is in the interval between prevention and protection, two of the four Ps of the Istanbul Convention, the document which, for the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, is a real roadmap, which provides for the development of paths for the treatment of abusive men. Among the interesting and worrying aspects that emerge there is the fact that in Italy the listening centers for abusive men (Cam) are few and badly distributed on the territory, but, as I said, their experimentation on the field has given concrete results and it is from those results that we must start today. From several stories of news we hear, for example, that the abusive man had been denounced for stalking by the victim and had been arrested, for violation of the measure of the prohibition of approach and for trespassing. It is clear that we are faced with a man who had and needs not only to be kept under strong control, as a guarantee of the safety of the victim, but also to be helped to manage, overcome and understand his enormous problems. Similarly, we cannot underestimate the consequences that fall on children, which I like to highlight. From the report on feminicides in Italy in the years 2017-2018, approved by the Committee of Inquiry of the Senate, really disturbing and disturbing numbers emerge: 17 percent of the children are present at the time of the feminicide and 30 percent find the body of the mother. Well, feminicide is fought with a prevention network made up of effective rules and above all with their timely and systematic implementation, with the training of magistrates and all the professional figures involved through educational agencies, with treatment paths for abusive men and for the children of women killed. It is a work that needs systematicity, courage and above all vision. It is therefore urgent to deal with maltreating men in an appropriate way to their relational or psychological problems, which too often become social problems. Today's act is therefore a milestone and an important step, another small step within the enormous, tiring but very valuable work we are doing. My hope is that soon, alongside this result, we can add another: the introduction of emotional education in schools [[Applause),]] to prevent the creation of the abuser already in school, providing him with the necessary tools to manage his emotions and give them other outcomes, that are not only violent ones. I therefore vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars and once again thank my colleagues, officials and consultants. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u54	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Conzatti, Maiorino, Valente, Castellone, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Rauti, Faraone, Crucioli, Unterberger and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] There have been no votes against, no abstentions, and this is the second time it has happened in a week, more unique than rare. I suspend work until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.56 a.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u55	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, today marks the hundredth anniversary of the birth of Enrico Berlinguer, historian general secretary of the Italian Communist Party and one of the most influential and significant figures of our Republic. Remembering its trait on this day means dwelling on the moral richness of an authentic political passion, spontaneous, tireless; a constant dedication to the common good and to the greater interest of the citizens who have distinguished, from the first day, its commitment in the institutions. Enrico Berlinguer was always a man of dialogue, a leader capable of being heard, appreciated, admired and respected by allies, as well as by opponents. Called to lead the Italian Communist Party in the darkest years of terrorism and massacred violence, he courageously took responsibility for finding in the cohesion of constitutional values a way to defend democracy. In an article published in "Rebirth" and "Unity" in October 1973, he said: The seriousness of the country's problems, the increasing threats of reactionary adventures and the need to finally open to the nation a sure way of economic development, social renewal and democratic progress make it increasingly urgent and mature that we reach what can be called the new great historical compromise between the forces that collect and represent the great majority of the Italian people. A phrase that would have marked an era, helping to open the way, even in our country, to that path of reconciliation that allowed us to overcome the ideological walls and start a precious path of peace and global cooperation; a path today challenged by the tragedy of an unjust war, in front of which the historical and political lesson that Enrico Berlinguer left us is an exhortation to oppose, without hesitation or compromise, any attempt to subvert with fear and violence the freedoms, rights and dignity of every human being. Of its enormous political heritage, the denunciation of the moral question remains topical: a denunciation that reveals the high sense of the state that has always led Berlinguer to put the interests of the nation before even those of the party. This is the distinctive note of a man of institutions, who with his innovative vision and unmistakable human trait has left a deep trace in our history. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u58	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, it is now 100 years since Enrico Berlinguer was born. We remember the political and human figure in this House, fulfilling a duty to a man whom we believe has been one of the giants of the Italian politics of our post-war period. Enrico Berlinguer came from a family in which political commitment was something deeply rooted, an anti-fascist family: his father Mario had been elected deputy in the party of John Amendola, in the last democratic elections before Fascism, and then parliamentary for twenty years in the ranks of the Socialist Party, from 1948 to 1968. In this family Enrico Berlinguer developed his political passion and found his way of public commitment and closeness to the weakest, enrolling very young in the Italian Communist Party, experiencing the prison and the fight against the regime and then starting a path of political militancy, made of study, work, acquisition of knowledge and constant proximity to the problems of people. Today, on the centenary of his birth, we must not make a panegyric or an apology by Enrico Berlinguer; however, we must remember the peculiar traits of a great personality. I want to highlight just a few: the first is integrity. Even his opponents and people who criticized him for Berlinguer mostly said that he smelled like laundry. This I think is a very important point: moral cleanliness, intransigence and rigour have been a fundamental feature, permanent of the political activity of Enrico Berlinguer. The denunciation of the moral question, recalled by the President in his introductory speech, is also part of this personality, of its most characteristic traits, and has characterized his work in a very strong way. Together with integrity, I would like to stress the courage, the political courage, of course. Berlinguer made choices that were not obvious. He could set up decisions that he knew would not be immediately understandable and easily acceptable even for an important part of the people he represented, which was a large part of our society. Yet, in the face of the need to make innovations, he never returned: this happened for the historical compromise; this happened when it came to cutting off the iron bond of the Italian Communist Party with the Soviet Union, difficult choices that saw Berlinguer author and protagonist. In order to recall his courage and his modernity from this point of view, I believe that we must also emphasize with force the sense of national responsibility that Berlinguer and many leaders of that generation of Italian politicians had in the most complicated moments of our country's history. Italy has saved itself from the threat of terrorism and political, economic and financial collapse because there have been political leaders like Enrico Berlinguer and Aldo Moro leading the country's two main political forces in dramatic slopes of our history. I think, however, that in order to understand the greatness of the figure of Berlinguer and the deep emotion that reminds him still arouses in the country so many years after his death, in addition to the political qualities, it is necessary to remember man, his human qualities. As has been said by many, even those who did not share Berlinguer's ideas or opposed him politically felt that they could trust him. Many Italians who have never voted for the party led by Enrico Berlinguer knew that, in addition to the politician of value, there was a beautiful person and we must not lose consciousness of the value of being beautiful people. Mildness is a term that has often been used for Berlinguer, mildness that was made of respect for opponents, for ideas other than his, but also of great sobriety. He was charismatic, he was a hugely popular leader, yet he was a person I believe in his life who never did anything to please, nothing to appear, indeed, it was confidentiality that characterized him deeply. In concluding this speech, I would like to say that over the years, as I imagine so many who are here today, I have read articles, books, studies and essays about Enrico Berlinguer. However, I am particularly impressed by his television interview, the most famous one year before his death, given to a great journalist in one face-to-face. Two questions were asked in Berlinguer. At the first, with which he was asked what the most proud thing he was of, Berlinguer replied that he remained faithful, despite the mistakes certainly made, to the ideals of his youth. With the second question, which came to my mind with great urgency precisely because I highlighted its human trait, Berlinguer was asked what was the thing they said about him that made him angry. The answer was, "When they say I'm sad, because it's not true." Here, I think that today we must keep the politician and the man together, with the awareness that figures of this type have been part of a piece of the Italian political world, they have been in their lives party men and leaders, but, for what they have been able to put on the field, they are also a heritage of all. So we have to remember this and I do it with a sense of debt, looking at the life of Enrico Berlinguer as we look at a model of dedication to the general interest and a reference point that has been, is and will always be valid for all those who work in the institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u61	LANNUTTI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Madam President, a century ago, the Secretary of the PCI, the largest Communist Party of the West, was born in Sassari Enrico Berlinguer, who, under his leadership, reached 34.4% in 1976, more than a third of the electoral consensus. I have clear memories of Berlinguer, the communist of the moral question; I, who in the Valley of Sangro hegemonized by the DC of Remo Gaspari, had taken as a boy the card of the FGCI. On June 7, 1984, I worked in Rome, after many years as secretary of Mario Spallone, the doctor of Togliatti, in a banking agency in Piazza Malatesta, when the news of the malore arrived in Piazza della Frutta in Padua. On June 11, in the days of the vigil in the headquarters of the PCI in Via delle Botteghe Oscure, Giancarlo Pajetta, the red boy who had spent his youth in the prisons of the fascist regime, went to pick up among the crowd Giorgio Almirante, the secretary of the Italian Social Movement; nobody protested when he saw the political opponent pay homage and bow down to the coffin of Enrico Berlinguer. On June 13, in Piazza San Giovanni in Rome, a human tide, almost two million people, accompanied him to the greatest funerals in history of the twentieth century, decorated with red flags. Yet Enrico Berlinguer was secretary of the PCI, against which the veto of the Western bloc had been vetoed; that leader of the left who had never ruled. Nevertheless, his death was an immense, collective pain, a wound in the hearts of millions of Italians, regardless of the political color. He wrote of him Enzo Biagi: "He is one of the few politicians who keeps the word given to him. That polite communist, but with a iron character, who had rediscovered to millions of Italians the values and dignity of politics at the service of citizens and communities. "The parties are no longer political," Berlinguer said in his famous interview with Scalfari on the moral question. The parties have degenerated and this is the origin of the ills of Italy. (...) For us communists, passion is not over. But for the others? I don't want to give judgments and put my foot in someone else's house, but the facts are there and are before everyone's eyes. Today's parties are mainly machines of power and clientele: poor or mystified knowledge of life and the problems of society and people, ideas, ideals, few or vague programs, feelings and civil passion, zero. They manage interests, the most disparate, the most contradictory, sometimes even shady, however without any relation to the emerging human needs and needs, or distorting them, without pursuing the common good. Their own organizational structure has now conformed to this model, and they are no longer organizers of the people, formations that promote their civil maturity and initiative: they are rather federations of currents, of Camarilles, each with a "boss" and of the "sub-boss." Madam President, we who have formed a Group that refers to the values of the Constitution, the protection of the environment and work, with the components of Alternative, Italy of the Values and Communist Party of Comrade Lele Dessì, bear a debt of gratitude and in our hearts the memory and concrete example of Enrico Berlinguer, that secretary of the moral question, strong and gentle communist, who honored this country with his commitment, his sacrifice, the political and social struggles always on the side of the poor people, for the emancipation of the working classes, with dignity, discipline, honor, always to safeguard the general interests and the common good of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u64	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Madam President, this morning, on the occasion of the anniversary that we also celebrate in this Chamber, our President Mattarella was present at the University of Sassari, who, at the university that saw Francesco Cossiga and Antonio Segni teaching subjects of law, discovered, a stone in memory of Enrico Berlinguer, a few meters from that of Francesco Cossiga. This means what value has always been given, what importance has also had in the history of Sardinia Enrico Berlinguer, and what greatness is felt and perceived by the Sardinians towards a man who has indeed given glory to Sardinia, but I believe in the whole of our country. In contrast to Togliatti, who was nicknamed "the best" he was, Enrico Berlinguer was called "the most loved," and of this love and of the enormous respect that everyone had to that man, we had signs that were also recalled at the time of his funeral, beyond the circumstances in which he had died: he had had a stroke during a rally that he carried on to the end stubbornly, then dying three or four days after the accident. Even this circumstance, the fact that he died on the ground having dedicated his life to politics and institutions - if we want to say so, to the people - has helped to make his figure somewhat legendary. But certainly the biggest sign of the love that the Italians felt towards Enrico Berlinguer was the day of the funeral, when an innumerable crowd of people - today there was talk of two million, but in fact no one has ever been able to count how many people had attended that day at the funeral - invaded Rome to pay homage to Enrico Berlinguer for what he had done during his life. Madam President, you have already referred to the path that Berlinguer had taken, but I think it is absolutely necessary to remember three passages, which I believe are the fundamental ones of your life. First of all, his relationship with the Soviet Union. In this regard, as my colleague Riccardo Nencini has reminded us several times in this House, we must always contextualize events with respect to the moments when events happen, and we must bring ourselves back to what was that historic moment: the Cold War. In that situation, Enrico Berlinguer had managed to weave even stronger relations with the Soviet Union, but nevertheless gradually managed to move away, because he had the idea of what was then called Eurocommunism, that is, a communism that was more distant and little proclipe to absolute obedience to the Soviet Union. He had given a different robe to this relationship, which was precisely called Eurocommunism. From there he began by taking note - always to contextualize - also of the historical events that had happened in Chile. Thanks to them, he understood that it was not necessary to look for the left alternative, but it was necessary to look for a democratic alternative, in this way laying the foundations for what would then be the historical compromise. We all know what happened after Mr Moro was kidnapped. In fact, he had laid the foundations for this union between communist ideology and Catholic ideology, always trying to unite them and bring them closer together, in the interests of the community and the citizen. I believe that the greatest teaching that we should always take with us and pass on to young people is the fact that Enrico Berlinguer has always thought, declared and taught that politics is done for the people, for the citizens, within the institutions but in the interests of everyone. Maybe we should keep this rule in mind, propagate it and spread it a little more to debunk that legend that instead sees the caste as closed in itself, determined only to protect itself and its own interests. Yours, on the other hand, should be a bright example that should guide the path of any subject facing politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u67	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group joins the commemoration of Enrico Berlinguer in the hundred years since his birth. Enrico Berlinguer, in the twelve years in which he was political secretary of the Italian Communist Party, undoubtedly led his party, which was for the first forty years of the Republic the second party in Italy, from a position that was closely linked to Moscow even in the first years of his secretariat, to an increasingly autonomous position, to affirming that Italy needed the umbrella of NATO: an extraordinary evolution, in this relatively short period of time. Enrico Berlinguer has gone beyond the usual patterns of his party and its part, not only in this extremely important evolution of the international position of the Communist Party, but also in other respects. As well as, in truth, his predecessors, he fully accepted the rules of democracy, even at a time when the bond with the Soviet Union, which was certainly not democratic, was very strong. It was, as has been said, a man of dialogue, so much to meet - and this was particularly difficult at the time - Giorgio Almirante, who was the leader of the Right, a courageous act that was followed by the presence of Almirante himself at the funeral of Enrico Berlinguer. We commemorate this man who has certainly been among the most important political figures of the post-war period, knowing well that on many issues we have been and are very far from him, but the approach that we believe is correct in relation to the characters and historical events is precisely the opposite of cancel culture, that is to pretend that events of decades ago conform to the current standards and to judge with an extremely biased spirit. Clearly his is a figure who is very far from us from the political point of view, but it is due to respect for a political leader who guided with great dignity an extremely important political force in our nation and who collected millions of votes during the elections (as has been recalled, in 1976 he exceeded even 12 million votes) but remained the second party. Just six days after his sudden disappearance, which took place on 11 June 1984, the Communist Party became the first party in Italy, in the European elections, overcoming for the first time the Christian Democracy, even if by a little more than 100,000 votes. Well, in front of those who represented so many Italian citizens, respect is due, so we join his memory, in this commemoration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u70	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, remembering the figure of Enrico Berlinguer in a few minutes is impossible: Secretary of the Communist Party, charismatic leader, protagonist of the construction of our democracy, a man of state who always knew how to put the interests of part of the nation. From this point of view, in the most difficult moments, such as the fight against terrorism, Berlinguer represented a firm point, together with others, for the whole country. That is why Berlinguer is a heritage, with few other protagonists, of the history of the Republic and perhaps, Mr President, it deserves attention and a moment of reflection. I just want to highlight very few aspects. Probably with his death everyone realized his strength, even several leaders of the Communist Party, because we do not have to make magiographic memories: there was debate, even in the Communist Party. Why, then, did the Berlinguer funerals and those few dramatic days after the Padua rally represent a moment of demise, not only for those who shared Berlinguer's ideas, political culture and ideology, but for the whole country? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this has happened for a very simple but so rare thing, especially in these times: because Enrico Berlinguer - I say it this way - was exactly what appeared and could in no way be perceived as a politician who used certain attitudes in an instrumental and opportunistic way. I believe that this has been able to recognize all the Italian people. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a very important quality and not so easily repeatable. So we need a reflection, and we will do it, on a complex personality, the protagonist of his time. You can't use Berlinguer to talk about today's issues. Berlinguer was a man who has always tried to interpret his time and to see its changes, to seek answers, based on his own ideals and values - I stress - without ever being opportunist or having truffles attitudes: this is also a quality that is not so reproducible. Among the many things to remember, for example, I would like to recall a passage that has not been remembered here, namely the speech that Berlinguer gave in Moscow for the anniversary of the October Revolution: in Moscow, not in an interview in Rome. On that occasion, with a determination without reservation, he affirmed the indispensable and universal value of democracy, which produced an element of rupture. His determination resulted in ruptures. The history - all the more that of the Communist Party - is not linear, but it is made up of ruptures, contradictions and very hard discussions. In the same way, this happened when Berlinguer proposed the historical compromise, which did not concern national solidarity, but was an idea of Italy's change to address the major issues with the country's fundamental strategic currents. This experience was interrupted by the murder of Moro. Then I remember the idea of austerity: in 1977, at the Elysée, Berlinguer spoke to the intellectuals of ecology, relationship with nature and gender differences. I repeat: in 1977 Berlinguer spoke of gender differences, with a great theoretical innovation of communist tradition and culture. When Berlinguer spoke about the moral question, he did not make a speech to assert the moral superiority of the communists, as someone wanted to interpret. He saw the drive of politics and perceived that, together with the occupation of power, such a drive would result in involution and limitations of democracy. We discussed this by remembering Matteotti, another great man in our country. I would like to conclude my speech with a brief reflection. There is no politics without values and references; there is no politics without an idea of transformation. [[Applause]] That's why Berlinguer, as my colleague mentioned earlier, on one of the very few occasions when he spoke about himself (other than Facebook), had to say: the thing I'm most proud of is to have been consistent with the values of my youth. This is politics and it is a great lesson for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u73	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are not so many figures in the Italian political landscape who have distinguished themselves for the sincere and crystalline respect also gained from the ranks of the opponent. This is Enrico Berlinguer. Today, on the centenary of his birth, I am particularly grateful to President Bernini because, as a Sardinian senator, I must remember Enrico Berlinguer. First of all, we commemorate the centenary of birth and not that of death, as if to represent that he - or, better, his ideas - is still among us. I do not want to refer to the political ideas and ideology of his thinking because, as you know, they are far from mine, which are liberal and liberal-democratic. I am referring to his idea of politics as service and his intellectual and moral honesty. I believe that if you had to find a word that defined it is really honest. Privacy was another characteristic of it, common to so many Sardinians. So, honest and private. Try to see how many politicians in history or even today can have these two characteristics: honest and confidential. That is why it is important that the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella to remind Berlinguer today went to his hometown and dedicated to his figure, together with President Solinas accompanying him, to President Pais of the Regional Council and to the rector of the University of Sassari, a plaque placed at the university that Berlinguer himself had attended. The love that the city of Sassari dedicates to him does not stop at this tombstone. Another commemoration was held in the institute he had attended as a young man, the high school "Azuni" in which he had graduated; an institute that had also seen three distinguished Sardinian politicians graduating: in addition to him, Francesco Cossiga, Antonio Segni and Palmiro Togliatti. It's not enough. The town council of Sassari, presided over by Mayor Campus, dedicated a monument to him that will be installed in the native house. His family members are all present naturally - you will say - and I feel particularly close to them, because one of Berlinguer's characteristics was to be a man strongly linked to politics, but with as much empathy and strength to his family. But obviously a man of such political standing cannot be confined only to ethical definitions of having been an honest man, reserved and related to his family. These were probably the prerequisites for ensuring that his political career, which also ended with his early disappearance on a stage, was marked by events that have passed into history. Our contemporary history is the one that saw its detachment from the USSR, from Soviet totalitarianism to the project of historical compromise, to the link with Aldo Moro, to the moral question in politics: all positions and passages that today seem to be overcome by history, but which then marked progress in Italian politics. Certainly the charism of Berlinguer, his political passion, his great human qualities make us remember him as a great politician, a Sardinian illustrious in the history of Italy. The Forza Italia Group joins the commemoration, welcoming the initiative of President Mattarella, with respect and consideration due to a great man. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u76	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me, as a Sardinian, to commemorate, on behalf of the League, a great protagonist of Italian politics: Enrico Berlinguer, a man destined to become a protagonist of the democratic life of our country. He was certainly, if not the greatest, the most beloved secretary of the greatest western communist party. A hundred years after his birth, as well as remembering who he was and what he did, it is important to reflect on what remains of political action, of his ideas, of his progressive drive with which he dealt with current issues. Dolce Enrico sang Antonello Venditti if I were still there, (...) the world changes, (...) the only thing that remains is a more true injustice. He fought against injustice. The political idea that animated Berlinguer was permeated with absolute integrity, ideal intransigence, constant and tenacious attention to the general interest and public good; deep and unwavering convictions that led him to raise the great theme of morality in politics and to see without fear before others what was happening in the deepest folds of our country: the degeneration of public life, the spread of occult powers, the hypertrophy of the party system and the transformation of some of them into pure instruments of consensus and power. It was the man who could trace a furrow between Italian and Soviet communism when, with extreme courage, in the Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (PCUS) in 1976 he performed that rift by uttering words such as democracy and pluralism, which earned him the cover of the "Time" and the hatred of Soviet orthodoxy. Enrico Berlinguer had the courage to support his ideas, moving, for the good of the country, superior to that of his own party, to seek the agreement with Aldo Moro in the historical compromise, which was stopped only by the assassination of the leader of the DC; but not only, also to meet several times the secretary of the Italian Social Movement, heir of fascism, to understand together how to save the Republic from red and black terrorists. Berlinguer's thought was a long thought: working for peace always and anyway. pacifism, today as it was then, is exchanged as partisan for a political force, while it must be remembered that working for peace is our duty. Speaking of the future, he said that you are saved and you go forward, if you act together and not just one by one. Indro Montanelli described him as an introverted and melancholic man of immaculate honesty, always struggling with a demanding, lonely conscience of spontaneous habits, more troubled than enticed by the perspective of power and in perfect good faith. Of him remains a social program, a political program, economic, ethical and moral unwritten, fundamental for the democratic future and progress of our country. It is the capacity for long-term analysis that would historically make him a prophet in the desert compared to the political-cultural offer of the 1980s. The moral question highlights the profoundly political nature inherent in the question of representation. Berlinguer would have been among the first to understand that the superb occupation of the state gangs by the parties was opening a gap between the political class and civil society. It is important to emphasise Berlinguer's attention to sensitive issues, such as the limited resources and environmental compatibility, its reflection on the potential (good and bad) uses of new technologies, the strong sensitivity shown to the gap between North and South of the world, the understanding of the need to tackle globally the upcoming challenges of the new millennium. He was a leader able to openly question a model of society centered on the profit and the intensive exploitation of resources, a leader able to indicate new trajectories of social progress in the context of the end of the twentieth century, with the awareness of the need for change and at the same time the attempt to coincide continuity and transformation, tradition and innovation. In some moments the first characteristics, constraints and limits that came from an identity, its history and its time prevailed; but in most cases it shone its ability to look far away, to produce the accelerations it felt necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u77	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u78	Mr President, today the hundred years have passed since the birth of Enrico Berlinguer, a great person, a Sardinian and mild person, like Sardinian and mild is my colleague Emiliano Fenu, whom I asked for permission to speak, because he is Sardinian and mild too. Thank you Emiliano. It seems yesterday when our hearts were warmed by his words, sometimes harsh, sometimes quiet, sometimes comforting. I was just over ten years old, I don't know much about politics even now and let alone then, but I don't know why my heart was warmed up by Enrico Berlinguer. President, thank you for reminding us of the moral issue. It was his battle, which certainly made many reflect; but, a few years after his death, with Tangentopoli the citizens had the proof that the misconception in political life was daily, normal, a defeat for all. And today we don't have the certainty that something has changed for the better; from the big contracts (the MOSE in the head), but also in the small daily bad actions, such as having priority in a waiting list, it turns out that nothing has changed, that little has remained of its teachings. The sense of shame has been lost, the abuse of office has become a stunt, the flawed a compulsory choice, the skimming from the amount of work to the benefit of the smartest a right acquired. At the end of the day, no one goes to jail, except the unfortunate ones, the ones who can't afford blasphemy lawyers. It is a common saying, but unfortunately it is often the raw and bitter reality. But we are still in time to intervene and the memory of people like Enrico Berlinguer can help us to do better, to change ourselves, before doing so by law, to educate the little ones to respect the res publica, the institutions, the rights of all people, colleagues and colleagues. On 15 January 1977 the intellectuals in Rome said: Austerity is not today a mere instrument of economic policy (...). For us austerity is the means to counter the roots and to lay the foundations of overcoming a system that has entered into a structural and fundamental crisis (...), of that system whose distinctive features are waste and waste, the exaltation of particularisms and of the most unbridled individualism, of consumerism more senseless. Please, let us not confuse that concept of the authority mentioned, desired and desired by Enrico Berlinguer for a new economic and solidarity development, for a rigorous recovery of the state, for a profound transformation of the structure of society, for the defense and expansion of democracy: in a word, as a means of justice and liberation of man and of all his energies today mortified, dispersed, wasted; let us not confuse that principle of austerity with that concept of numbers, formulas and constraints. Austerity wants to be a reflection on choices, do as much as possible with the least possible, redistribute in a fair way starting from those who need it most, never forget anyone. Austerity as a fight against waste, favours, illegitimate rights and, not least, for the saving of natural resources. It is the hope for a different way of producing, consuming, accumulating and distributing wealth, which in recent years has led to a decline in the concept of sustainability with increasing strength and urgency. Speaking of sustainability and the environment, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth recalling the report to the Central Committee of 3 December 1981, when it returned to the danger of ecological disaster, saying that soil, subsoil, seas and spaces, and matter in its infinitesimal particles, are available there to be used rationally and balancedly in order to increase resources, to protect humanity from dangers, to enrich its existence. A true forerunner of the times was Enrico Berlinguer, also with regard to electronic democracy, so much so that he claimed: E-democracy limited to certain aspects of man's associated life can also be taken into account. But it cannot be accepted that it replaces all forms of democratic life. (...) By the way, I don't think you'll ever understand what people really think if the only form of democratic expression becomes to push a button. And there were still no Internet, social media, and artificial intelligence. President, allow me to conclude with a perhaps bold analogy, hoping that it will be humble. If love is needed to create a family, colleagues and colleagues, the principles behind Enrico Berlinguer are perhaps that raw material, that essential element, that essential component to create a good policy. Thank you all and thanks to my Group who gave me this gift to be able to intervene today in memory of Enrico Berlinguer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u79	Senator Garnet, I invite you to put on your mask. You have to respect the rules like everyone else. First of all, he must know them; when he knows them, he must respect them. So either you put on a mask, or you have to get away from the Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u82	GRANATO (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). I would like to point out to you, Mr President, and to the quaestors senators, that Mr Brunetta came to the Commission yesterday, where this obligation also exists, and has spoken without a mask all the time. So, since in this assembly we should speak freely, just as he spoke yesterday, I don't think I have to respect...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u83	If you do not wish to do so, you will turn away from the rules in this House. I'm gonna take her away, or she's gonna put on a mask, or she's gonna leave. [[Applause]] Please, Senator Garnet, don't let me have to push you away. If you want, we'll give you a mask if you don't have it. If he's got it, put it on or out, no fuss. [[Applause]] Come on, don't waste this House's time, we have to work. Senator Garnet, this is not the first time you have put us in front of sanctions that are not so pleasant, because you should represent institutions like all of us. [[Applause]] This is the seat of legality, so please don't force me to push you away, which would be a bad representation of this House. Please step out.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u86	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Madam President, I would just like to say that yesterday Mr Cingolani spoke without a mask and nothing happened. The whole time yesterday, Minister Cingolani spoke without being interrupted and there are footage. Therefore, I do not understand the lectures made to a colleague who has spoken for a much shorter period of time than Minister Cingolani, who has remained without a mask all the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u87	Minister Cingolani asked if he could speak without a mask. PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). What does that mean? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He had no one in front of him, and I said he could. Then she put it back, in compliance with everyone's rules. He spoke alone here and was not close to other people. So thank you for your speech, but my decision has already been taken. [[Comments.]] 15.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u88	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2333, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Gelmini and Aprea MPs; Envy; Bucalo and Frassinetti; Touchdowns; Colmellars and others; Soverini and others. The rapporteur, Senator Nencini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u89	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the higher technical institutes shows a number of things. The first is that Parliament knows how to work and can do it very well. We've closed the reform... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u90	Senator Paragon, Senator De Poli, if you wanted to go chat outside the Chamber, it would be good for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u91	Please, Senator Nencini. Mr Nencini, rapporteur. Thank you, President. We closed the reform many months in advance and did so in a choral way. That is why I thank - and I am very pleased to do so - the Commission which I honour to chair. We have done this in synergy with the Government, particularly with Minister Bianchi, who attends the session, and we have done it to cut the time... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u92	Colleagues, or get out of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u93	Senator De Poli, please help me in your role of Quaestors to maintain order in this House. Go talk outside. Mr Nencini, rapporteur. Mr President, this reform is considered to be one of the most important of this parliamentary term. PRESIDENT. - The debate is But it's superior technique, obviously we're not there yet. Mr Nencini, rapporteur. In any case, if anyone prefers to talk about masks instead of ITS, I will be happy to listen. As I said, in order to avoid three passages - House, Senate and even Chamber - the reform that I try to illustrate quickly has been built, by common agreement also with the VII Commission of the House, so as to allow the other branch of Parliament, when it will return - I imagine in the course of not many weeks - to approve it as quickly as required. When we worked on the subject that the House had already regulated with an absolutely dignified norm, we tried to enrich it with a whole series of suggestions coming from the associative world - not only from Confindustria, but also from the trade union world, from the Regions and everything else - taking into account some indications including, first of all, the one related to human capital that is formed through ITS. In Italy today we count just under 20,000 members: I do not quote the numbers of France and Germany, which are decidedly disproportionate compared to those we can boast in our country. However, this reform could allow a very high percentage of boys and girls, who, coming from professional institutions, choose to enroll in university, to have a definitive docking on subjects that can enhance them. I say this because 28 percent of boys and girls with this school background leave university after their first year of study. There's evidence. Probably giving a port of a decidedly different nature than the choice that has been made could offer indispensable job availability for the Italian enterprise. In concrete terms, we have respected the key points of the reform as it was launched by the House. We have strengthened a central steering booth, but without devitalizing the role of the regions. We have confirmed the report, but in disparities, between ITS and universities, thus maintaining a linking axis, but two very different study guidelines. We have reinforced all the references to the individual competences, with a two-year reform to the 2008 decree - which established in five the fixed subjects around which ITS would build their presence in Italy - matters that may seem known today, but that perhaps in two, four or six years, could become a sort of norm for the Italian labour market. The implementing decrees that the House had foreseen have been removed. The other criterion, the last one, was to avoid the proliferation of ITS, today that the PNRR envisages about 1.5 billion funds to be allocated to the exploitation of this world. Within this framework we have built a regulation that also includes a series of rules of advantage. We live in a world in which the pandemic - and not only the pandemic - has made the most fragile families weaker; it is the reason why, within the rules that the Commission has approved, with a vote almost unanimous, we have provided a welfare for worthy students but who are in the condition of need, starting with scholarships, studentships, the obligation of internships and internships abroad, of course paid within the existing legislation. Gender equality rules have been introduced, because the other point concerns an absolute disparity of presence in existing ITS: a large, exaggerated majority of boys and a scary presence of girls leaving high school. We have increased the possibility of holding traineeships to 35% and have made the relationship between the public and the private even closer, avoiding, however, that private individuals had fully the possibility of electing their presidents; we have inserted the expression "normally" which means that there may also be alternative solutions. We have also introduced a 30% tax credit for companies investing in ITS. This percentage is doubled and rises to 60% for companies operating in parts of Italy with a particularly high level of unemployment. Finally, a premium fund has been provided for not only the number of graduates, but also the ability of those graduates to find work in the subjects for which they have studied in biennial or triennial and from there they can access the labour market. These are the key points in relation to the rules that we have maintained and that had already been approved by the House of Deputies by vote, even in that case largely majority. I also hope that the House will follow the Commission's lead, so that the House of Deputies can work on this reform, probably since June, and then issue the implementing decrees as soon as possible and finally allow, with the calls for ITS, to inaugurate a new and different season than the one we have known. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u94	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Nencini, the whole Commission and, if you will allow me, extend this thanks also to President Casa and all the members of the 7th Chamber Commission. It was a path not only built together, which had at its center the attention for our students and our students; a path that has given and is giving new possibilities to reduce any phenomenon of dispersion, but also to allow our whole system to grow, relying on those skills, but above all on those experiences that can be combined today for a new development. Thank you so much. The government is at your disposal. We are in a position to issue the implementing decrees in the required and due time, in order to be able to leave with the new school year, so that it is truly a new beginning for all ITS. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u96	I note that the Presidency - and I am on the distribution side - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on this draft law, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u99	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I confirm the previous remarks and thank the House for this largely majority vote. I am happy to listen to colleagues in their opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u102	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the measure before us today is the result of a work of unification of several legislative proposals - the Brothers of Italy Group had also presented one to the House and the Senate - with the aim of reorganizing the system of higher technical education and training, also in the light of the objectives of the PNRR, which has allocated a considerable amount to this system. Higher technical institutes have existed for more than ten years, represent training and high technological specialisation, are closely integrated with the economic and productive world and have been born to enhance both human capital and the production system of the territories, to compensate for the lack of specialised technicians in certain sectors. Unfortunately, in Italy, however, this system of higher technical education and training has remained largely unknown, as its potential to become a tool to deal more easily with entry into the world of work. If we analyse European data, it is easy to grasp the delays of our tertiary training system and the lack of attraction towards it, considering that only 0.01% of young people between 18 and 25 choose the higher technical institutes for continuing training. Often this is little known by students, families and teachers in charge of guidance. All this is paradoxical, in the light of the fact that in Italy youth unemployment is high and this type of direction is to be considered a real fundamental resource. It is an important opportunity in order to interact the school community with the business system, as it can provide, through well calibrated paths, an experiential didactic center on direct action and experimentation of the tasks and roles functional to those of the working reality both in terms of knowledge, skills and strategies. This is in order to address future challenges in a globalised and constantly changing world. Moreover, according to the latest data, 80% of the graduates who chose this path found employment and 90% of them found employment in an area consistent with their own curriculum. Therefore, the role played by the information and guidance of young people and the communication to families about the nature and potential of this training channel, which should not be considered a second choice compared to university, is fundamental. Another dysfunction that this system has shown is linked to the vision that these institutions must adapt to already defined professional profiles. On the other hand, there is no idea that they can create new roles, new trades and new high-quality professions, thanks to the extension of further guidelines, taking into account the specificity and vocations of our territories. In this direction, aimed at the expansion of the addresses and the enhancement of Made in Italy, the proposal of the Fratelli d'Italia Group went to include itineraries in the ITS also referring to the high artistic craftsmanship, which represents a peculiarity of our nation. We are pleased with the work done in the Commission and I would of course like to thank President Nencini, who is also rapporteur for the measure, my colleagues and officials, who have demonstrated many times the ability to work in a practical way and on the basis of the measures. We have fired many bills in the Commission, united by this spirit and we believe that even on this important option, which is being put in place, there can be a finalization of the large resource that is being destined. In fact, we are well aware that Italy has an identity heritage, in its ability to propose quality, of which there is hunger in the world and that it must find an instrument capable of not losing this identity and the possibilities of realization of many young people. They must know that there is a real possibility of realization in these areas too and not only in that of intellectual performance. I conclude by announcing the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group and pointing out that our efforts, as always, have been to improve the text. Our patriotic and never preliminary opposition has always been marked by the proposal and we have fought so that this instrument can have an adherence to the vocations of the territory and the institutions of the same, also with reference to the Regions, noting also the failure, which for the past undoubtedly there has been, of a vocational training too often designed for the trainers and not for the formants. Minister, we hope that this instrument will be a real possibility and, in this spirit, we shall be voting in favour of the adoption of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u105	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the draft law has been tabled with a number of amendments by the rapporteur, which amend the text approved by the House of Deputies. The higher technical education and training system is one of the most important sectors of the Italian school. It is not by chance that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan has given ITS a key role, providing for an allocation of EUR 1.5 million in lost funds, from 2022 to 2026, with the aim of strengthening its structures and increasing the number of members. The measure that we are about to vote on is therefore an absolutely indispensable regulatory intervention to start from what is and which works and to make it grow, but avoiding to fall into the entirely ideological error of creating ideal models, which prove to be impossible in the facts. This is a measure that stems from the synthesis of separate parliamentary proposals presented during the legislature and that we think is able to meet the objectives set out in the PNRR, which explicitly provided for the reform of the ITS system and their strengthening as a lever for the economic, social and cultural development of the country. It is not by chance that the President of the Council himself, on 17 February, highlighted in the Senate precisely the need to review the design of the school path with particular attention to ITS that in countries such as France and Germany are an important pillar of the education system and the economy, with a forecast of increasing the needs of graduates of technical institutes in the digital and environmental area. Indeed, national monitoring of ITS routes 2021 clearly shows that 92 percent of those with a higher technical education diploma find employment in an area consistent with the course of study. This is an absolutely interesting monitoring, which covered ITS graduates in 2019. Ten years after its birth, the system of higher technical studies has demonstrated its full effectiveness in terms of employment and the changes that have taken place with the measure that we are about to vote have the objective of strengthening the system to finally exit from an experimental phase and create a national network capable of enhancing territorial specificities. There are some critical points, because we believe that the amendments approved by the Commission for Public Education, cultural heritage, represent a worsening of the bill and outline a tertiary education system which is essentially based on an exclusively corporate logic. Clearly, it was decided not to take into account the comparison with the social partners which developed during the hearings. In our view, the national and unitary nature of the system has been weakened, further reducing state responsibility for this matter and effectively excluding schools from ITS bodies. On the contrary, we think that the quality of the training of young people who choose this kind of path must be guaranteed and raised, which would need to implement knowledge and skills in strategic sectors for the economic and social development of the country. However, this must be closely linked to the school system. In conclusion, we think that the relaunch of ITS can represent a qualifying point of the country's strategy to get out of the situation of low growth and raise the level of study, facilitating the construction of that necessary bridge between the school and the world of work and a training offer closely integrated with the economic and productive world of the Country, for an integrated system that has not particularly suffered the effects of the pandemic on the level of employability thanks to a dynamic model characterized by organizational and didactic flexibility, a network of governance built together with the enterprises and ability to intercept innovation, in particular on the front of the use of the enabling technologies. The future of ITS is therefore to become the heart of the tertiary vocational training system, closely linked - on the one hand - to the second grade high school and - on the other hand - to the university, in order to form those skills that companies cannot find on the labour market today. It is only through a new vocation of vocational training that young people will be able to benefit from these pathways in the European context in a future in which there will no longer be a time for separate and clearly separated training from working time. Good practice and application models, the result of many years of experience in the field of apprenticeship and matching between training and the world of work, needs our country, respecting the constitutional dictation that places education under the exclusive aegis of the State, contrasting any attempt to privatise the national training system. In fact, no reform can bring a segment of the national training system outside the public perimeter, which needs to be strengthened, of the national dimension of public governance, interacting with the country's research, development and innovation policies, in order to facilitate the implementation of the intervention plans foreseen in the PNRR. The restart of Italy therefore needs to overcome the skill challenge and the investment of the PNRR on the ITS represents a strategic variable in order to achieve this objective. It is a system that over the last ten years has demonstrated its effectiveness and is integrated with companies, flexible and capable of quality-oriented didactic innovation. The increase in the number of pupils requires, however, infrastructure investments to equip that system with offices, laboratories and students. With the resources made available to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we aim, precisely, to increase the number of subscribers to these paths, to strengthen the laboratories with the 4.0 technologies, to train the teachers, so that they are able to adapt the training programs to the needs of the local companies. At stake, therefore, is not only the eternal theme of the training mismatch, but the entire system of a system that chooses to invest in dialogue, osmosis between two worlds (school and enterprise) for the benefit of individuals, community and progress. This is the challenge facing the new system of higher education, capable of intercepting innovation and facilitating access to the new professions most in demand on the labour market. In conclusion, I announce the favorable vote of the Senators of LEU-Ecosolidali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u108	MANCA (PD). Mr President, Mr Bianchi, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, we are faced with an important step, because this is the first organic reform of higher technological institutes. Today, in fact, a particularly important reform is approved in this House, with a broad consensus, which speaks first of all to our young people, our boys and our girls, as President Nencini has rightly pointed out. He speaks to a training system that wants to invest the important resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (1.5 billion euros), with a particular attention in returning centrality to the tertiary segment of the training. It is a choice of great importance because, if we look up for a moment, we realize that in this country we are among the most important world manufacturing companies. We saw during 2021 how much the manufacturing has driven growth, and if we combine manufacturing industrial productions with the added value of our productive capacities, that is, that value that is determined on the processes of innovation, research, so valuable and important to attract investments and to generate work and growth, we are talking about an indispensable investment in the training segment, to relocate qualified technical and technological institutes that do not live in solitude in territorial systems, but finally determine correct relations between territorial systems, economic associations, companies, trade unions. During this journey the Senate modified the approved text in the House, improving it; there was an important comparison. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Democratic Party, Senators Rampi, Verducci and Marilotti, who have worked in the Commission in an appropriate way to make the most of the important confrontation with trade unions, economic associations, the system of education and school. This has certainly allowed us to identify more precisely an organic reform that also addresses the issue of social cohesion and support for the weakest in order to reduce critical areas that in the training systems risk to penalize growth, but above all leave many people in solitude. So, it's an investment of extraordinary importance. We must recognise this: this is an essential reform to accompany a new idea of economic development in this country. It is a fundamental reform in order to restore also centrality to an Italian manufacturing system that demands a qualitative leap on the side of the formation of human resources. Colleagues, to accompany this digital, social and environmental transformation, the theme of investment in knowledge, skills and training cannot be evaded. There are no shortcuts if we want the transition to produce new employment, attract new industrial investment, generate new employment. I say that this Parliament finally approves a reform which puts the Italian training system on a more noble footing. It is a reform that writes a positive page and enters the main door of the order of the Republic. Up to now, industrial technical institutes and their regulatory elements were regulated by a DPCM. With the bill in question we introduce from the primary door a structural reform, which I believe also gives a very important message to our country, that of a state that decides to take hold one of the fundamental parts that is the investment in human capital. There is no shortcut: if we want the transition to generate new jobs and new growth and not new areas of solitude and social conflict, the only real investment possible today and fast is precisely the institution of training. Investment in human capital becomes decisive in transforming the transition not into fear, but into the ability to generate future, hope and growth. That is why I consider the work done in this House to be very important. We will once again deliver the third reading to the House of Deputies, but we do so after listening to, improving and further developing an assessment which I believe will insist on the pillar of tertiary training as a decisive element in order to further root an alliance between the public system and the private system in the territory. When I think of our land, the most advanced regions, when I look at the importance of generating jobs and growth, it is precisely manufacturing systems that require more qualified training opportunities. We do not need training at all costs for a shock absorber: we need an investment in the qualification pillar of human capital. With this reform we take away the idea that technical institutes are marginal areas of new economic development. If the technological institutes acquire a relationship with the enterprises and with the universities - as president Nencini has remembered - in the paths of formation, that is if the alliance of the knowledge is finally built, they can use the enterprises and the extraordinary laboratories financed from the resources of the National Plan of resumption and resilience that inhabit in the enterprises, because the qualified laboratories in order to form our young people are there. We can't afford slow times. An alliance between the training system and the entrepreneurial system is enough So the academy - as we have called it in this bill, in this legislative proposal - serves to establish this alliance, a formative system rooted, corresponding to the needs of the territorial systems, capable of giving our young people an opportunity for their future. I believe that this is indispensable, because the global economy will have an increasingly qualified manufacturing system, increasingly digital, increasingly innovative and therefore it will be indispensable to support appropriate training courses to support new growth and economic development. For these reasons, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this bill, which we believe is an organic reform, important and valuable to make the best use of the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but above all to provide our young people with a new opportunity, in removing the shadow that knowing to do, produce, study and form are different paths; they are paths that can also be combined to reduce the times and generate opportunities and hope for their future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u111	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia is very pleased with the adoption of this draft law, which we know needs a further parliamentary passage, precisely because it wanted to promote its path to the House and then, at the start of the debate on our proposal, seven draft laws were presented by all the parliamentary groups on the relaunch of ITS. We have been able to see a close, but certainly positive and profitable confrontation - as the President of the Commission recalled - between the political forces that have worked to give a new investiture to this system, which is placed - let us not forget, because it is fundamental - among the most important and important objectives of our PNRR. It is therefore a reform that has a significant specific weight. We are satisfied with the unanimity, which means above all that Parliament has been able to find significant balances for the technological development of our country and also, in a certain sense, to make an important contribution to the action of the Government. Allow me, before moving on to some aspects, to thank, in addition to our leader in the Commission Andrea Cangini, our national head of education Valentina Aprea and of course also Senator Gallone, for the work they have done on this measure. I would like to highlight a few points which strongly motivate our vote in favour. We want to remember the experience of Lombardy, where there has been a boom of the subscribers of more than 140 in four years. Therefore, it is more necessary than ever to have a situation of homogeneity, precisely because there are situations of difference between the Centre and the South. Today we are talking about a reality that includes as many as 120 institutes, 766 active courses, nearly 20,000 students and more than 3,000 partners involved, including more than 1,000 companies and more than 100 business associations. As I said, this bill is in line with the objectives of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, because it provides for the strengthening of an organizational and didactic model, the consolidation of ITS in the ordering system of tertiary vocational education and, therefore, their active presence in the entrepreneurial fabric of the individual territories, as well as integration with the university system. There are important resources to strengthen the training proposal, amounting to about one and a half billion euros. We wanted to give particular priority to what has been rightly defined as the genius of hands, that is, the technological dimension, if you want, applied to production and services sectors, which has certainly become one of the aspects to be considered with the utmost attention from the cultural and formative point of view. We believe, above all, that it fills a gap in the Italian training system of a national character, which we have always stressed. In addition to the university and the institutions of Afam, there was and is necessary an organic offer of training courses for the tertiary diploma, of biennial and triennial duration. We think it is very important that they are called academies for higher technological education today, because it is right that they have, even from a purely nominal point of view, the very important dignity they have within the 21st century; and then because they are obviously linked to the schools of business. The link and balance identified with the university are certainly important, the whole part concerning the modification of the governance of foundations, the stability of funding, the valorisation of the teaching component that comes from companies and the orientation paths for students, as well as of course all the requirements for accreditation and the creation of a national committee with the participation of the Ministry, composed in a particularly enlarged way. The mission and identity of the higher technical institutes means that they become an integral part that strengthens the participation of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized ones, in public and private research centres and foundations, with reference to the technological innovation plans managed by the central administrations. It is also important the part that concerns the logistical, instrumental and personal endowments, all within a framework of loyal collaboration for the system of accreditation and development on the campuses between the State and the Regions, because it is a system that cannot be excluded from a collaboration with the same Regions. They also said authoritative colleagues before me that we are faced with legislation which is a turning point, to which Parliament has rightly devoted time, attention and above all the will to work to the best of our ability. The strengthening of links between ITS Academy, the university system and Afam, the new technological areas, the division of ITS paths into two levels, the redefinition of the founders, the redefinition of governance, the strengthening of synergy with companies, the accreditation system, the monitoring, evaluation and the establishment of an ad hoc fund, the logic of three-year programming, the promotion of liberal donations with the introduction of a tax credit and the strengthening of the right to study are definitely a fundamental pillar in order to make our country up to date with times that run much more than we imagine, but above all in step with a Europe that must not teach us really anything from this point of view. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u114	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and members of the Government, a few days ago I had the honour of participating in my city, Parma, in the award of the new titles of masters of work by the National Federation of Labour Masters. The thing that struck me most during the event, in addition to the variety of professionalism awarded, was the illustration of the projects that the Federation itself has developed and is carrying on, from primary school to maturity, with the aim of promoting the inclusion of young levers in the world of work, helping them in their training and professional choices. These projects are modulated and differentiated according to the order and degree of school, at the end of which students are asked to express their experience and expectations. Precisely in one of these comments it was written that children's dreams should be recognized and transformed into interests and passions, so that constancy, desire and abilities have a way of being born in the person and of feeding themselves over time, until becoming a profession. It has made me think a lot about the responsibility we have as legislators in stimulating and accompanying young people towards cultural and vocational training choices that really reflect their skills and aspirations; a responsibility that goes hand in hand with an appropriate organization and functioning of education and training institutions at all levels and at all levels, from primary to secondary school, from humanistic to mathematical, scientific and professional. This responsibility is all the more accentuated by the fact that school and the whole education system are at a time of great change from the educational point of view and also of adapting to the needs of the work sector. In this context, ITS play an important role, whose redefinition of the mission and organisation has been called for in implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and has been entrusted with a bill of parliamentary initiative at second reading here in the Senate and today under discussion in this House. To illustrate why ITS play an important role in the context of the education system, it is worth remembering that, when we talk about ITS, we refer to higher post-graduate courses, which offer highly qualified technical training to enter the world of work immediately. The ITS courses, in fact, are carried out in collaboration with companies, universities, research centres and local authorities to develop new skills in technological areas considered strategic for the economic development and competitiveness of the country. The ITS, therefore, constitute the segment of tertiary, non-university training, which responds to the demand of the enterprises of new and high technical and technological skills to promote the processes of innovation, and represent an opportunity of absolute importance in the Italian educational landscape, as an expression of a new strategy based on the connection of education, training and work policies with industrial policies, with the objective of supporting the interventions destined to the productive sectors, with particular reference to the needs of innovation and technological transformation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Six of the technological areas concerned, to which courses can be accessed after a pre-selection after the diploma of upper secondary education; courses normally divided into four semesters, which can be up to six, which allow you to have an experience in internship in the company. During this period of vocational training, students have the opportunity to experiment directly on the ground with the skills acquired and to contribute to the development of the processes of business digitisation, thanks to the knowledge and innovative dynamics proper to the superior technicians. It is clear, therefore, that ITS courses are built through a shared and shared design by all stakeholders and - not least - are co-financed by the European Social Fund's regional operational programme. That of ITS is therefore an alternative path to university ones, which responds to the vocation and desire of all those girls and all those boys who want to specialize in specific areas and who can transform children's dreams into high-level professionalism and become competitive adults and realized in the world of work, not only at national level, but also at European level and, why not, also at international level. As legislators, therefore, given the importance that ITS have, we have the task of ensuring that the system works and is efficient. During the work of the Commission, thanks to the hearings and the continuous and intense interlocations with the Regions and the associations of category, we think we have done a good job and today, with the approval of this Assembly, we return to the House a bill enriched with new elements, thanks to the contribution of the amendments and proposals also of the League Group. And I would remind you that some of these proposals have been included in the rapporteur's amendments, which I thank, and others accepted individually, such as the one which excludes the teaching director from being chosen from among the school managers of the secondary schools of second degree members of the foundation and that representatives of the school directors of the secondary schools of second degree members of the foundation are legally involved in the scientific committee (a first-signed amendment by Senator Alessandrini and shared by Senators Pittoni and Saponara). He regretted the failure to accept the amendment at my first signature, but always shared by the Lega Group, which was not accepted by the Government, which provided for the participation of the employers in the ITS committee. We are aware that the lack of acceptance of certain requests may give rise to some bad moods. But what we have tried to ensure is that the system can be spread throughout the national territory, supported by adequate professionalism and subject to a control that ensures its efficiency and guarantees the real specialization, as well as the integration in the world of work of girls and boys who will choose ITS to transform their dreams of children. Only to give a few numbers, there are 120 ITS on the national territory, related to six technological areas. To give an idea, most of the ITS is located in Lombardy, which has 20; follow Sicily (11); Tuscany, Calabria and Campania (9); Lazio (8); Emilia-Romagna, Piedmont and Veneto (7); Puglia and Liguria (6); Abruzzo and Sardinia (5); the Marches and Friuli-Venezia Giulia (4); but only one foundation is present in Molise, Umbria and Basilicata. Emilia-Romagna, Piedmont and Lombardy are the Regions that, in addition, have all ITS in all technological areas. The currently active routes are 60, still in Emilia-Romagna, 701 members and - just to give a number - the total number of graduates of the completed and monitored routes is 2,290, with 1,841 employed. Which means ITS is a good solution for professionalism. Convinced, therefore, of the important function of ITS and that the bill, so varied, can ensure an adequate and efficient functioning, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour. Thanks go to the President of the Commission, the rapporteurs and all the Commissioners. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u117	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by making a brief excursus of the journey of this measure, which has not yet been completed and which will have to be reviewed in the House. After a unified text was adopted in the Chamber of Deputies on 20 July 2021, on 19 May the 7th Commission, of which I have the honour to be a member, approved by a large majority the reform of the higher technical institutes, which, within the framework of reform and rebirth represented by the PNRR, is now before the House's judgment, before doing - as I said - return to the House - I hope quickly - for the final ratification. The text has undergone considerable changes compared to the one previously fired in the House. In order to avoid an exorbitant number of amendments, the rapporteur in the Commission, Mr Nencini, has, after a series of meetings with the Government, held a series of hearings and talks with competent and expert subjects, always in agreement with us members of the Commission, to prepare a new text, which has in turn been perfected through a fairly intensive amending activity. I cite only one example for everyone, because it had completely escaped: the Afam is inserted among the founding subjects of the ITS. The main objective of this proposal is to reorganise the system of higher technical education, in order to strengthen a segment of our training system for too long undervalued almost to the role of cinderella, and which provides post-graduate courses able to offer highly qualified technical training, aimed at providing the technical skills most required by companies to access the world of work. Well, the real reform that has been intended to give life through the present provision to give just dignity to the system, with a general framework after a series of long years of experimentation, affixes in any case to two parallel pushes, merged into a single will on the part of the Government. While, from a general point of view, it is intended to encourage the introduction into the world of work of qualitatively trained personnel, in more limited and limited terms, this speeding-up is meant to be done by redefining the internal, typological presupposition of the higher technical education and training system as a whole, with precise objectives and objectives as an implementation element of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The main actions of the proposal that we are going to vote on are therefore organic to the framework outlined by the PNRR and the result of the conviction common to all political forces that the ITS system must be strengthened, improved and consolidated also by virtue of an extremely comforting figure in terms of job opportunities for students. With the changes made, therefore, the Italian technical institutes become higher technological institutes or, more briefly, ITS Academy. Excuse me, but in this regard I make a personal observation, because it is a semantic choice that has been criticized by someone for the replacement of the word "technical" with "technological" and for the umpteenth import of an English term with which, however, the affinity of these paths is highlighted with those of high professional specialization activated in recent years in many companies also Italian and also called academy. So, I wanted to find a justification for the use of the English-speaking term. Born about ten years ago, ITS form superior technicians in six technological areas considered strategic for our economy: energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, new life technologies, new technologies for Made in Italy (so business services, agri-food, home, mechanics and fashion), information and communication technologies and, finally, innovative technologies for cultural and tourism goods and activities. ITS are currently around one hundred and ten throughout Italy. These are actually foundations of which are schools, universities, research bodies, local companies and local authorities. The last established in order of time is the Aeronautical ITS of Ragusa. Unfortunately, in post-graduate technical education, Italy is far behind other European countries. Other previous speakers have already reported some data. Let us consider, for example, that with the 750,000 students in Germany and 530,000 in France, only 18,000 are counted in our country. However, I am pleased to point out that 83% of cases find work within a year and essentially in line with their own studies, interests and expertise acquired in ITS. However, the shift of the centre of gravity of these routes from school to the business world makes them closer to the German ones, thanks also to the increased financial soundness of the new ITS, linked no longer to the calls, but to a three-year programming of the training offer and the use of 1.5 billion in five years provided precisely by the PNRR to implement the number of courses. Decisive is the greater weight of companies in the management of the new ITS model, considering that the presidency of the foundations will normally be the expression of the parent companies and participants and no longer of the school. At least 60 percent of the total hours of tuition will have to come from the world of work and 35 percent of the activities will be internships and internships abroad as well. Companies investing in the new ITS are expected to have a tax credit of 30%, which may rise to 60% if they are paid out in the Provinces with a higher unemployment rate. No less than 30% of the resources made available by the Ministry of Education will be allocated to ITS as a premium share, taking into account the percentage of graduates and the consistency of the employment rate with the training path. There are many benefits involved, but criticism has not been lacking. For example, someone wanted to see in the changes made in the Senate an objective worsening of the bill that would delineate a tertiary system of education perhaps a little too bent on an exclusively corporate logic. We will see in the continuation of ITS activities what will actually happen. There is a famous saying of African origin that sounds like this: those who run alone go fast, but those who run with others go far. [[Applause]] In the case of ITS, in order to carry out this reform, to get really far, it was necessary to find a point of balance, to identify a precise point of fall between the needs of the territories represented by regional competences and the national strategic programming, which cannot be without a high standard of formation of ITS and the necessary subtraction to the bell tower logics. We take for good the commitment, the profound value and the innovative will of this reform. The vote of the Movimento 5 Stars will therefore be openly favorable, albeit with the hope that after the times and the effect of the implementation decrees that will have to be adopted, soon we can arrive, from the nebula that seemed a journey without goal, to the complete certainty of a destination without travel. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u118	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: "Institution of the Tertiary System of Higher Technological Education." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u120	The applause, Senator Mautone, was for you, because I inform you that to date yours is the fifty-fourth intervention at the end of your session. You're a real record man.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u121	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u122	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u123	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, today is the World Day of Missing Children established by the UN. Dramatically increasing data perfectly photograph the severity of the problem. Only in Italy, we switched from a missing child every 48 hours in 2018 to a missing child almost every hour in 2020 and the trend is increasing. Of these missing minors in our country, about two thirds are foreigners. Fortunately, more than half of them were later found. The most worrying figures relate precisely to so-called unaccompanied foreign minors, which have now become a real social phenomenon. The age group most affected by the phenomenon is the teenage age between 14 and 17 years of age and is often linked in this case to voluntary departures due to school failures or family dissolutions. Very worrying, however, are the data on the disappearance of children, often associated with migratory phenomena, which conceal illicit trafficking, purchases of a child on commission, sexual exploitation, until organ transplantation. Mr President, we must say that these latest violence is mainly managed by crime. These are chilling realities, some of which are made known as facts of chronicle, others remain hidden in the grey limbo of a often impenetrable reality, between silence and omerta. Today there are often, against the backdrop of these crimes and in the dynamics with which they are carried out, the world of the Internet and adolescents online, who have further widened the audience of sensitive minors and potential victims of executioners hidden in the shadow of anonymity. The war in Ukraine, alongside the many deaths from the violence of the conflict, has put us further before the dramatic reality of the missing children in nothingness. How many are there, where are they and what will be their future? Unfortunately, there are no definite answers. The commitment of all of us is to ensure that, in addition to the dedicated day, we can finally and really put a stop to the dramatic escalation of a cruel phenomenon, which remains an outrage and a shame perpetrated against those who cannot defend themselves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u126	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, the National Day of Mines will take place in the coming days, born to spread the value and cultural significance of geological tourism, now in its fourteenth edition this year. The internal Sicily, due to its geological conformation, is characterized by the presence of important mining sites, which have played an important role on the economic level, with reflections on the national production system. The centuries-old mining activity represented, together with agriculture, the island's greatest productive tradition, made up of suffering and exploitation for generations of Sicilians. The Archaeo-minerary Park of Floristella Grottacalda, in the Ennese, is today one of the most important sites of industrial archaeology in the south of Italy and presents landscape, naturalistic and geological peculiarities such as to be inserted in the Rock of Ceres UNESCO global geopark, a worldwide recognition of the value of the site. Cessata the mining activity for almost forty years, the Park tells the civilization of sulphur that characterized the economy and society of Sicily between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, making Floristella a site called for the development of tourism for the entire territory. The mine of Pasqualia, located a few kilometers from Enna, instead, exploited a large deposit of potassium salts, of strategic importance for the chemistry of agriculture. In the eighties of the twentieth century, after the studies carried out by Enea to evaluate the possibility of storage of nuclear waste, the mine, despite not being exhausted, began its phase of decline, reaching in a little less than a decade to cease its activities. After an attempt to clean up the site, the mine is now inexplicably abandoned. These are two mining sites with different destinies, I would say opposite, that show us how the same resource can become an occasion for sustainable development or unresolved problem for the territory. I believe it is necessary to recover the memory of these places, their historical and ethno-anthropological heritage, assessing their potential for a correct recovery and subtracting them from a destiny of abandonment, often linked to the illicit disposal of hazardous waste. The mine of Pasqualia is still rich in potassium salts and among them kainite, much requested by the technological industry. The mining area, 70 hectares wide and strong of its baricentric position, completed the reclamation, could become a scientific and technological park for the study and implementation of alternative energies, in collaboration with universities and research institutions. Mr President, the enhancement of the Sicilian mines is an unmissable opportunity for the development of the internal areas, which requires political vision and high administrative capacity, in order to give future generations a unique heritage, which tells a lot of Sicilian history and identity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u129	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, at the age of ninety-four, Senator Enrica Pietra Lenzi was elected to the Senate in 1994, in the Bologna senatorial college, on the list of Progressives. Senator Pietra Lenzi came from many years of civil commitment, dedicated to improving care for people with disabilities, accompanied by the recognition of rights. He had accepted the political candidacy after joining the movement of the Christian Socialists of Carniti and Gorrieri, considering it to be the continuation of his civil commitment. Individualism was preferred by the community, promoting, through its civic commitment, the social cohesion of the Bolognese community, to which it devoted great attention and commitment. Doctor, among the first women to graduate and leader of Catholic Action, in youth he then dedicated his civil commitment to children and people with disabilities. She was among the protagonists, between the seventies and eighties, of the development of the Bolognese welfare for people with disabilities. Thanks to her determination and authority, she made strong the voice of associationism and from 1985 to 2009, for twenty-five years, she was the president of the Italian Spastic Assistance Association (AIAS) of the province of Bologna. To the AIAS, his family, his children and his grandchildren, we in the Democratic Party want to dedicate this brief message in his memory, to gather around his daughter Donata Lenzi and above all to ensure that his memory continues to guide the indispensable action and attention towards the weakest even in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u130	The Presidency joins in mourning for the death of its deceased colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u131	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-437.ana.u132	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 30 May, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.17.
