ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law No 2481, already approved by the House of Deputies, and documents LXXXVI, No 5, and LXXXVII, No 5. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral and integrated report on the written reports and that the joint general discussion and examination of the articles of draft law No 2481 took place in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u7	GRANATO (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, Europe is asking us to do so. It is the usual phrase that justifies our governments when they want to impose unpopular reforms or counterproductive measures on us for our country. Unfortunately, this is Europe that knows Italian citizens: a supranational entity, oppressive tyrannical, heterodirect, willing to pass over the human and social rights of citizens in order to protect the interests of the market, also using usurious methods. An example is the case of Greece, to save which did not find 10 billion euros in 2015. The register that has been adopted today with regard to Ukraine, which is not part of the European Union, is quite different, only in order to redeem it from corruption, however, without success, have been found EUR 9 billion, in addition to what is being spent now, both for military and humanitarian aid. But Greece was a target on the contrary for the European Union: it had to be plundered, subdued and humiliated. The next designated victim is Italy. Our cultural heritage, our beaches, our savings in the bank, our own houses, we know that. Europe is asking us to do so, to a certain extent: it is now proven that these documents, which we are voting on today, give back a series of noble intentions, which will remain so on paper, and of ignoble objectives which will be carried out mercilessly. Unfortunately, those unwelcome directives on lobbying, which are in favour of citizens, are never implemented, while those which pursue a bad agenda for human, civil and social rights are implemented with devilish ferocity. You always find devices to bypass what you don't want to do and gimmicks to speed up what you want to carry out strategically. Our small and medium-sized enterprise, fishermen and farmers are at default risk because of speculation on energy, gas and fuel, to which the European Union has given its very start, by entering into penalising contracts with supplying companies. It was spot contracts, for example with Gazprom, which have led to uncontrolled increases since this autumn. To date, we understand the meaning of this, given that since then, without our knowledge, the war that the United States had to wage, by proxy, against the Russian Federation has already been planned; an incomprehensible war, which no European hears or wants, with respect to which the European Union has pervicaciously taken a subordinate position to that of the Dem Biden, strengthening the partnership with NATO and military engagement with the Member States, precisely in this accession document which we are voting on today. While it is recommended that states charge multinationals only 15% of the taxes in the country that hosts their activities, with the Italian small and medium-sized enterprise it is absolutely ruthless. No discount on VAT, which is removed from the purchase of weapons. What, then, about the peremptory implementation of the Bolkestein directive, which will auction the bathing concessions, which will inevitably end up in the hands of foreign multinationals? But let us consider how Europe handled last year's emergency situation. The single European contracting station has concluded contracts on experimental GMO preventive therapies, with orders of more than 4 billion doses, with strictly secreted contracts; equally secreted are the periodic reports on the safety of these drugs, compared to which the EMA renews a conditional authorization, while declaring that it is not in possession of the raw data, owned by the manufacturers. Faced with this evidence, we Italians had to resign ourselves to the most abject discrimination, that of seeing us impose, in the form of compulsory health treatment, not without having signed, under threat of suspension from work, a disinformed consent (in spite of the Charter of Nice and the Charter of Human Rights), more doses of these products without any formal guarantee from the State. We would therefore be European citizens in order to fulfil our tax obligations and to fulfil our obligations towards European agendas, who knows where and, above all, towards a free market, to which the European Union exposes us completely unarmed; however, from the point of view of human rights we remain non-EU, because at the request of clarification on discrimination against non-victims carried out by the Italian Government, the European Commission, at my request, replied that every State can legislate as it deems appropriate on its territory. So it is okay for European citizens - in this case Italians - to be discriminated against, deprived of pay, for not wanting to undergo experimental treatment. Our accession to the European Union will then bring us, as a gift for 2022, a fantastic Chip Act, that is to say the goal of achieving in our countries at least 20% of the worldwide production of microchips; it also requires us the mission to achieve zero climate impact in 2050. Too bad that this last mission, if limited to the countries of the Union alone, will not only not have the desired effect of climate neutrality, but probably will not benefit the people's indebtedness and the sacrifice of thousands of companies in distress, for an energy transition rushed first by the pandemic and then by the Ukraine crisis, for which we are not ready. If the commitment of the European countries alone does not have the effect of the Paris agreement on the world stage, why give it priority at such a difficult time for us, in the midst of recession? Dulcis in the end, other gifts that the European Union will give us for 2022 are a digital European identity and electronic instant payments, all measures that marry magnificently with the intent of social control of the 2030 Agenda, of which a taste was taken in Canada during the Ottawa protest, when the protesters were even blocked the current accounts. Think that mocks the idea that we have committed our PNRR, exposing ourselves to the figure of 122 billion loans on the markets, to these beautiful measures designed to cut down our economic activities and take away any personal freedom even to disagree. This was not the model of democracy, development and progress in which we trusted when we took the European project enthusiastically. This model of Europe recalls rather that of a Company of the Indies under the control of the US financial oligarchies, which have our sacrifices, exposing us today, with their darts, to the real risk of a world war. This Europe that takes orders from the Pharmas and lobbyists and plans with McKinsey the measures to be administered to the Member States does not represent the peoples that make up it, but interests far from us and to us, on the contrary, markedly hostile. To this Europe our Group says a strong no, in the certainty of speaking today on behalf of an ever increasing percentage of Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senators Crucioli and Lannotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u10	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, to restart the economy, to increase the level of security and to increase social equity are just some of the objectives that this European delegation law pursues. I am sorry that Senator Garavini is not present, who has always dealt with these issues in a very active way, but unfortunately today she is absent for health reasons and therefore I find myself having to replace it unworthyly. The law we are dealing with contains the delegation to the Government for the transposition of directives and acts adopted by the European Union over the last year. From the substantive point of view, however, it indicates to the country the steps that must be followed in order to support the enterprises, to favor the liquidity, to guarantee the respect of the rights and also to render more effective the fight against the crime. It has already been approved by the House of Deputies and provides, as I said, for the transposition of ten European directives, the adaptation of national legislation to twenty European regulations and also contains a recommendation. For this reason, for this variety of sectors involved, many issues are addressed: from cross-border business mergers to criminal judicial cooperation, to securitisation to support post-Covid recovery. It aims, for example, to facilitate the transformations, amalgamations and divisions between companies in the Union. The aim is to allow greater flexibility for businesses within the European Union, i.e. to remove existing barriers to freedom of establishment, barriers which, as the times and activities of the European Union progress today, appear increasingly unjustified within a modern single market. Basically, the bill responds to the need to support the real economy as much as possible, for example through concrete actions that make immediate liquidity available, which is necessary and of which we feel the need, manifested by many companies, that are forced to face the economic repercussions due to the pandemic. It is therefore envisaged to adapt to European legislation so as to make securitisation easier, i.e. financial instruments that allow banks to release capital for businesses, so that they can lend much easier, in order to enable companies to restart, restructure and possibly create new jobs. As you know, and as I have already said, the pandemic has caused incredible repercussions on our economy. Therefore, the ability of banks to continue lending to companies is indeed one of the key factors for economic recovery. To adapt our legislation to the European directives means to give a real hand to the restart of our economy. The same is true of the rules in the judicial field. For example, it is clear that our laws need to be adapted to the EU Regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation measures. The confiscation of property, we have discussed it many times, continues to be one of the most effective instruments of fighting the mafia and mafias in general. Therefore, it is a significant development in the fight against organised crime that has been achieved at European level. The application of measures between judicial authorities is, in fact, an important driver for the area of freedom of security and justice of the European Union. As is well known, Italy has made enormous strides over the last ten years and has been equipped with state-of-the-art anti-mafia legislation. However, it is not enough that a country has the best standards, if it is the only one to possess them and are not instead shared with other countries. I have to say that in the past there had already been a commitment in Parliament to the first European decision on this issue to be transposed by our country and the beneficial effects had been seen immediately. It is now a matter of continuing along that path, once again updating our legislation so that seizures and confiscations carried out by a Member State of the Union are recognised and carried out without further formalities. The bill of delegation in our examination aims to achieve an Italy of growth and development, in line with the project of European integration, which our Government has long been admirably carrying out. That is why the Italian Socialist Group Viva-Partito Italiano intends to confirm the positive vote already expressed in the merit committees. This vote in favour will clearly be expressed in respect of all three parts of this measure: the European delegation law certainly, but also the two related measures, i.e. the summary report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2021 and the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2022. Both documents reaffirm Italy's commitment to strategic areas for the Union, such as the environment, defence, economy and energy. It is a vision of federalist Europe, ready to reform itself in such a way that its mechanisms are more adapted to the challenges posed by the current situation. A pact, this is what is defined, in which the commitment made in particular in the areas of emigration and asylum stands out; a pact which recalls the need for structured cooperation agreements with countries of origin and transit, starting from Libya and Tunisia, and where it is stressed that careful management of migratory flows while respecting human rights is possible only in a framework of close political dialogue with the African continent. Dialogue that is now becoming even more urgent because of the risk of famine following the war in Ukraine and therefore the blockade of wheat exports. These are themes with which we have been living together for some time in everyday life. Of course, the report also stresses the need to strengthen the commitment to stabilisation and growth of the Western Balkan countries and to relaunch the strategic partnership between the European Union and the Southern Neighbourhood countries. Italy is therefore at the forefront, once again and as always, in support of this integration process. Enlargement to the Western Balkans remains a strategic intervention in the context of the growing global challenges, also in the light of the implications of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, which is always present in this activity we are dealing with. It is therefore very important that Italy reaffirms its commitment to refocusing the Mediterranean within the Agenda of the European Union. In short, Italy wants to take a clear line, as it has always done, in which Italy is protagonist in the processes of reform and European integration; a line that is also taken up and relaunched in the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2022; a document in which Italy confirms the strategic objectives and policies to be put in place. It is, therefore, a particularly important strategic guidance document in a year like this, which is marked by the consequences of the war in Ukraine and the still alive effects (and we do not even know what will happen in the near future) of the spread of the pandemic by Covid-19. Therefore, within the framework of the common foreign and security policy, the report rightly stresses that greater strategic autonomy of the Union should be pursued. Aware of the fact that the numerous crises in progress show that Europe can no longer afford weaknesses and dependencies in the strategic sectors (a topic, this, very current in these days), I confirm the favorable vote of the Italian Viva-Party Socialist Group on the measures to our examination. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u13	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, with the law of European delegation we are voting in fact on a number of acts: first of all, the customary delegation to the Government to adapt the Italian system to the European one. It is the so-called "law" that Europe asks for, but it would also be an opportunity to tidy up some points, one of which - Brothers of Italy has tried - concerns the resolution of the misunderstanding of the incorrect interpretation in Italy of the Bolkestein directive. On bathing concessions it was clear and clear that, even in the case of concessions of public property goods, a directive aimed at the granting of services does not apply. The law of European delegation was precisely an opportunity to clarify and resolve this misunderstanding. It is regrettable that this Parliament and the Government have decided to pretend nothing, once again confirming that the European hat is more and more a valid pretext for making Italians pass and digest all those rules for which the Government does not want to take responsibility for choice and gives it to Europe: it is the fault of Europe. No, it's the government's fault on the bathing concessions. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] In addition to the final report, the very important document is the programmatic report, in which the government basically explains how it wants to be in Europe in the coming months and what it would like to do in the context of the European Union. However, we find ourselves systematically with completely empty documents, without any content, without any vision. Let me say that the motion for a majority resolution is very sorry. I wonder if the so-called government of the best or the majority of the best in which they are all the best can put forward a motion for a resolution stating something like this: we have read the document, that's fine, but next time maybe show us before, so at least we study it. I wonder if it was not appropriate to give an address, that someone would say something in short, even proforma. Brothers of Italy presented its resolution, a little more contentful. Of course, if we had to talk about Europe, we could have written manuals. Very concretely, really can we say that the line of Italy in the European Union is to say that everything is fine, we keep this course and put in our documents some attention to the contour? We say no, it's not okay. This model of European integration is not working and is creating serious problems. Every time facts and history knock on the door of European bureaucrats trying to explain to them that there is something that should be changed. Brothers of Italy, as we know, is part of the family of European conservatives. We have the privilege of having Giorgia Meloni president of the Party of European Conservatives and Reformists and we have always done a very clear battle on what the line of integration for the continent should be. By now the European narrative has focused the story as if there were two positions: the Europeanists, or if we want the most Europeanists, those who would like to continue on this path, and those who would like to destroy Europe. This is a lie, which does not reflect the history of European integration, in which confederal thinking has always had full citizenship, which is precisely what characterizes conservative thinking in Europe, that is to say that states must maintain their sovereignty as regards the legislation of proximity, that is, that it concerns the daily life of their citizens and their businesses, whereas the Union must instead address the great challenges of history that every single European State cannot face alone. This seems like a vision of common sense and we didn't make it up, so much so that characters far more illustrious than we have explained it very well in the past, from De Gaulle to Churchill and many others. Then the facts come to confirm that the current model of European integration does not work: first the economic crises from 2008 onwards to bear witness that Europe was not ready; then the pandemic, in which we realized that uncontrolled globalisation that the European Union did not master had created value chains so long that Europe did not have the supply of the elements essential to its survival. In fact, we discovered with the pandemic that all the active ingredients of our medicines, even if bearing the brand of a European country, are mainly produced in India and we wake up realizing that we are fragile. Then came the war, which showed us a further fragility: the energy fragility and even there we woke up late. Maybe we will find a different opportunity to explain it better, but really someone can believe that this situation at our borders is not closely linked to the standing that Germany has chosen for the European Union, with a system - now of the European Union - that provides for the supply of cheap raw materials from Russia, cheap labour from Eastern Europe, added value created by the German industries that invade Western and global markets. Of course there is a situation of instability in which you make the Russian supply vital for you, and so Russia believes that it is in the right to exercise a will of power over its neighbours, but this is a complex speech that perhaps deserved a discussion these days, instead of the desolation we have seen. Always with a model that we pretend works, the European Union becomes a sort of entity that sticks the Member States, but with little impartiality. The examples would be endless, but in these days two come to mind. The first concerns the situation with regard to immigration. How many times have we heard Poland and the Visegrad countries attack how inhuman they are towards immigration? We have also seen this recently, despite the fact that they have welcomed Ukrainian refugees as true Europeans on their land. All this, however, clashes with the silence that we have heard in recent days regarding what happened in Melilla: 23 deaths among migrants trying to cross the border between Morocco and the Spanish enclave of Melilla. The government is socialist and there has been the total silence of the European institutions and the total silence of this House. What would have happened if 23 people had died on the border with Poland? Instead, the President of the European Council, Michel, has declared full support for Spain for the protection of European borders. These are the double standards that characterise the European Union. A second example is France which denies the extradition of ten terrorists of the red brigades in Italy and does so - these are the anticipations - because the right trial is not guaranteed in Italy. France, therefore, states that in Italy the right trial is not guaranteed and therefore does not allow the extradition of terrorists. Imagine what would have happened if the Czech Republic, for example, had not extradited ten terrorists to Germany. I wonder if this would have been accepted in the same way. I hope that this House will remember this French attitude on Tuesday when the ratification of the Quirinale Treaty between France and Italy comes to this House. This model of the European Union is not ours, for us Europe is a historic reality made up of people who have the same roots and culture and who have the same destiny, not an exclusive club in which you choose who can and who does not. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u16	Mr Marcucci (PD). Madam President, allow me first of all to wish you a happy birthday. [[General applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u17	I thank you and the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u18	Mr Marcucci (PD). Authors, undersecretary Amendola, today we approve the law of European delegation 2021 and the two reports. This is now a recurring meeting of this House, together with the meetings devoted to communications in view of the European Councils. It is important to stress that these classrooms are probably - I say at last - gradually understanding the importance of this type of regulation. This gives us the measure of how much our country is able to comply with and comply with European regulations, but it also gives us the measure of how much our country, our Parliament and our parliamentarians are in a position to ensure that, within those regulations, obviously the interests of our country are safeguarded. We do this today by talking about the cap at the price of gas, we do it by talking about nuclear power, we do it by talking about organised crime or the management of migratory flows. This means reasoning in European terms - it could only be so - of common choices and issues, in which we cannot fail to participate. On the contrary, we must be protagonists: we must be as an Italian Parliament, with our representatives of the majority and opposition within the European institutions, Parliament in the first place. I think it is finally time that Italy, the Italians and all the political forces - no one excluded - consider European regulations exactly as our own, in which we participated and which were determined by our representatives who draw the future of our country and our national community. This understanding is very important and I believe that the work carried out by the European Union's Political Commission, for which I thank the rapporteur, Mr Stefano and the Undersecretary, goes exactly in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There was a serious and close discussion on important issues, on which we had to intervene and say ours. All political forces, including the opposition, participated effectively with proposals, some of which were taken over by the majority. There is therefore finally a virtuous and politically relevant approach. We come from important meetings recently. We have talked about this in this House; our President-in-Office has come here and taken up the addresses of the Italian Parliament before these meetings. The contents of our relations speak of this, that is, of the war in the heart of Europe, between Ukraine and Russia, with the humanitarian, financial and military support that our country, together with the other European countries, is giving so that the massacre of the Ukrainian population will soon end. The priority interest of Italy and Europe is to quickly reach peace in reasonable conditions and with the consent of the Ukrainian people and government. The European Council on 23 and 24 June also discussed other important issues, starting with the food emergency, which mainly concerns the weaker countries (I am thinking of those in Africa and the Middle East), which must be a central point of our foreign policy, as well as the issues related to the enlargement and the status of candidates in Ukraine and Moldova. In particular, with regard to Ukraine, let us not hide that this would also be a very great, very strong and very important political gesture, but let us not forget the Balkan countries, which have been close to our hearts for many years and to which we have committed ourselves directly - a commitment that we will take forward - so that they can join the European Union. In working on this measure and amending it, we have also heard stories, which have not taken place in the Commission. The question of bathing yesterday is, in my opinion, a politically incomprehensible act. The Commission has decided to suspend its work pending the conclusion of the procedure for approving the draft competition law, because that text, by the will of the Government, addressed this sensitive issue for the future of our country's tourism and because the Bolkestein directive imposes certain acts on us. The Commission has waited for this work and the majority agreement has been made. It is good to remind everyone that this majority agreement finally provides for an explicit delegation to the Government, in particular under the coordination of Minister Garavaglia, to arrive at the definition of all these events. It is obvious that all political forces, particularly those of the majority, have not only been involved in defining that agreement, but have been the protagonists of it. Therefore, the spectacle that we witnessed yesterday, when the League - the same political force as Minister Garavaglia - instrumentally placed that issue in the Assembly, can only have two explanations. The first is politically relevant in the internal debate of the League: evidently the League of the Senate Group wanted to distrust Minister Garavaglia and the mediation activity that he carried out in this difficult passage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If this were not the case, there would be the second explanation: the League and the other forces that voted on that amendment, having made the accounts, knew well that it would not be approved, but for the umpteenth time - I stress - they did not have respect for those families and those entrepreneurs who have dedicated their lives to their activities and who have made our country great from the tourist point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They mocked them in the Chamber, creating the conditions for further discredit against Parliament and knowing that theirs was only a verbal disturbance which had no chance of getting into port: and if it had, it would have been only distrust of their Minister. Madam President, the Democratic Party will of course vote in favour of this measure and the reports. I believe that what the 14th Commission has given is a virtuous example that we should follow, so we will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u21	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would also like to congratulate you on your birthday. Colleagues, the debate in this House and not only in the Commission on the European delegation law is an opportunity to do a little bit about how we also interact with European legislation and how in many areas we are able not only to transpose, but also to understand what our contribution to a European legislative path is actually, which I consider to be very advanced. European legislation in many areas has been and really is a driving force that can also lead to a very positive strengthening of protection for citizens and businesses. The delegation law also allows Italy to fulfil fully the obligations arising from membership of the European Union, reducing what has always been a bit our problem, namely the number of infringement procedures - which has been very reduced over time, but which, in my opinion, continues to be too high - and the opening of new disputes, to be avoided. Yesterday's affair with the beaches and the amendment which, fortunately, the House rejected, tell us clearly what we are talking about: these are regulations that directly affect the lives of citizens. It is no coincidence that in this very law of European delegation we have many rules concerning consumer protection, also in response to new abusive practices related to the evolution of the digital economy; the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing; the crowdfunding regulations for businesses; enhanced cooperation for the European Public Prosecutor and other issues. However, I think - and this is where I would like the Undersecretary to hear - that in recent times, especially in the environmental field and in the pursuit of the objectives that Europe has rightly set itself in the fight against climate change (I am thinking of the whole debate that has taken place in recent times on the Fit for 55), we are taking an attitude that is frankly no longer consistent with the objectives that we have chosen to achieve and that we repeatedly insert in the European resolutions, even on the eve of the various European Councils. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that it happened a few days ago in Luxembourg, in the Council of Environment Ministers, where we did not act in line with the European objectives, which should be even more strengthened and which, over time, the European Parliament has helped to strengthen in some way. We, in particular, should have great regard for them, given the situation we are in. Here I would like to remind you that drought is not a divine punishment and that such high temperatures are not one of the seven plagues of Egypt, but one of the consequences of the situation of climate chaos in which the planet is located, particularly in the Mediterranean. If we look at the latest data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on the situation of climate change and the increase in temperatures in our basin and in our country and if we think about how much the temperature of the sea has increased and what is happening with the entrance of the salt wedge, that has risen for 30 kilometers inside the auction of the Po, we can realize how terrible the impact from the environmental, social and economic point of view is. In view of this situation, I think that, before taking initiatives that are not consistent with the pursuit of emission reductions and climate neutrality, all the more so in an energy crisis such as the one we are experiencing, and before leading countries on the economic periphery - and, I dare say, political ones - of Europe, perhaps we should have a somewhat different attitude and a capacity for discussion on these initiatives, which, by the way, then become bankrupt and which are absolutely not in line with the direction of Parliament and our interests. I am also talking about the date of 2035 to close with all combustion engines: perhaps, before taking these initiatives, it would have been necessary, all the more on the part of a minister called the ecological transition, to have a proper confrontation with our country. This does not put us in a positive position in Europe. It has happened on this issue in particular, but it has happened, always on environmental issues, also on other occasions. Frankly we are very concerned and it is an element of alarm, because we do not really understand where Italy wants to place itself: we do not understand if we really want to be the leaders of the economic periphery of Europe; perhaps this would deserve a slightly more serious discussion, even for a very simple issue, that is to understand what we aim to make our country grow economically, from the qualitative point of view. Do we finally want to take a road towards innovation - and we would have it well - because we are a country that, from this point of view, has a thousand resources not properly valued and exploited - or do we have to continue to pursue what we have done in recent years, deceiving ourselves that that was a stable growth and, instead of through innovation, we continue to choose to grow through low wages, thinking that we have to compete with another type of country? I therefore believe that this is the central issue, all the more so with regard to a debate such as today's on European legislation, in order to understand where we place ourselves, on these issues, which are absolutely crucial and fundamental for the future. In this regard, in the delegation law before us, there are rules such as the one introduced in the Chamber of Deputies, which we have rightly confirmed, concerning the issue of animal welfare, which is certainly an advanced point, finally prohibiting the grinding of live male chicks. Again, while France and other European countries have brought into force the prohibition of this barbaric, uncivilized and merciless practice since 1 January 2022, we think instead of placing it at 2026. Ladies and gentlemen, you may think: 'Least bad that at least the ban comes in', but you understand perfectly, as I said before, that our country tends always and once again not only not to be at the forefront in Europe, but also to slow down the most advanced measures and that, frankly, our country does not deserve it. For all these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of the senators of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u22	I address a greeting to a delegation of the voluntary organization National Association of Italian sailors of Lesina, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u25	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of a European delegation, like every year, deals with a number of issues, with the aim of transposing European legislation, but in the historical context in which we find ourselves it is certainly of particular value, because it is an antechamber of Europe of the future. Europe was forced by the pandemic before and today by the war to finally change its face, to show greater solidarity and to be more mother than stepmother. No member country assumes more to leave the euro area, anti-Europeanism has become a minority and has given way to a constructive critical approach to what is still to be done. At the last European Council something very significant happened: Ukraine and Moldova have acquired the status of candidate countries for entry into the European Union: good news, given that the EU's spirit of inclusion is the best response to Russian expansionism. However, we must not forget the Western Balkans, where North Macedonia and Albania have long been waiting to open accession negotiations and it is our strategic interest to respect the commitment to their rapid accession to the Union. The European Council also renewed the invitation to the Commission to explore ways of reducing energy prices as a matter of urgency. The theme has become vital for our country and for Europe as a whole. There can be no more room for parties of no to everything, nor can there be room for a happy dystopic degrowth. [[Applause]] The topic of debate is and will be in the coming weeks the price of gas, due to the impact it has and that it will continue to have on the bills and budgets of our companies, which are increasingly in difficulty. In addition, of course, expensive fuel, which complicates things further. We therefore need a shot of Europe and Forza Italia will continue its battle with great determination to limit the indiscriminate increase in the price of these raw materials, energy, gas and fuel. With regard to this, entering the heart of the law of European delegation, Forza Italia, precisely in the light of the changed international situation, has asked the Government to develop a strategy of valorization of national energy resources, in order to arrive to a greater use of the same ones, that guarantee the security of supplyings, the social cohesion and the economic well-being of families, workers and enterprises. From gas extraction in the Mediterranean to nuclear power, we have been witnessing for decades campaigns to boycott energy autonomy, but now history demands a change of pace. With the same strength, the issue of the environmental crisis requires the attention of the legislator, both national and European. Our country is overwhelmed by a very serious water crisis. Drought is not only a problem for the environment, it also has very serious consequences for our agriculture. For this reason Forza Italia, in the context of the measure under consideration, has asked the Government for a recovery plan that can mitigate, at least in part, the huge losses of the agricultural chain and that allocate new resources, that guarantee the competitiveness of the enterprises of the field in the long term. [[Applause]] Agriculture is an integral part of our national identity and our Made in Italy, protecting it is our duty, as it is protecting our South, thanks to the instrument of decontribution on recruitment in the South Regions throughout 2022, which represents a temporary derogation from the European framework on State aid, due to the commitment of the Government (and in particular of Minister Carfagna), to improve the economic conditions of the South, reduce the gaps between the various areas of the country and promote investment and employment. Work, not subsidies! [[Applause]] I work, not subsidies: this is the right recipe for the start of the South. Another point of particular concern to us is the issue of late payments by the public administration. A number of amendments have been tabled in the Commission to oblige administrations to make payments more timely, in line with the requirements of the European Directive, which requires thirty and sixty days: thirty days for central, regional and local administrations; sixty days for regional health authorities. It is a matter on which Forza Italia has been fighting for years and because of which Italy has already been sentenced by the European Court of Justice. We are, therefore, at an aggravated stage in the infringement procedure, precisely because of the delay in payments by our public administration. [[Applause]] The State cannot behave towards businesses like a leech, which it takes and does not give, all too often in demanding from the citizens, but constantly late when there is to recognize them what is due. This is an issue which I remember being taken up in the PNRR too. It was also decided to present an agenda on this subject, signed yesterday by all the majority groups, which commits the Government to speeding up payments of public debt and which we hope will be followed up by the Commission. Another very hot topic (no need to deny it), dealt with under the law of European delegation, is undoubtedly that of the beaches. Forza Italia is a liberal and popular party and with this approach we have worked to achieve a mediation on the subject within the framework of the competition decree, where we thought it was appropriate to the subject and which will now have to find a moment of effective synthesis with the legislative decrees and with the forecast of real compensations for companies in the sector, which must not be left behind and which must in no way be penalised by the Bolkestein directive. [[Applause]] Mr President, another important point is the issue of online terrorism. The war in Ukraine must not make us forget that terrorism, especially Islamic terrorism, is alive and well and operates in the heart of Europe, as we have also seen in the bloody attack that has upset Oslo, particularly affecting the LGBT community. Article 15 of the law of European delegation, introduced during the examination in the Commission, gives a delegation to the Government for the adaptation of national legislation to the Regulation of the European Union n. 784 of 2021, relating precisely to the fight against terrorism online. Too often terrorists, taking advantage of the discomfort and marginalization of young second generation immigrants, use social media to spread their propaganda and recruit terrorists. It is therefore essential not to lower our guard and defend ourselves with adequate instruments. I conclude by announcing Forza Italia's vote in favour of the European delegation law and the majority resolution on the two reports on our country's participation in the Union, in the hope that the Union's path will continue in the federal sense, giving more and more effective responses to the emergencies of our times and to the needs of citizens, families, workers and businesses. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u28	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, at last we have come to the vote on this law of European delegation, since it took us a few months in fact, let us put it this way, and we are generous in indicating the past. It has not been easy, because within this law have condensed other problems added over time and certainly not unraveled by the provision. I am thinking first of all of the question on which we have insisted very much with the Government and which led yesterday to the approval of a agenda, so that the vulnus that the public administrations bring to the suppliers without paying them, that is, the failure to pay the debts of the public administration is finally resolved. We have insisted very much that there should be a clear definition within this law of the fact that this practice of public administration, unfair to the economy, should be permanently put in books and archives. On this we have a commitment from the government, then the judgment on the plant is not given on the leaves, but on the fruits. We want to see how the government will implement this commitment. It is necessary to put an end to the practice whereby public administrations contract debt and then do not pay suppliers. [[Applause]] Minister, this is a commitment made by the Government and we will judge it on that. We will vote in favour of this law of European delegation as a whole, but we do not hesitate to point out that these results must be and must come. Only in this way can we seriously say that Italy embraces that spirit which, in other contexts and in other European countries, is on the agenda, but which appears extraordinary from us instead. What is this law we have understood. European law and the law of European delegation are essentially the two points of contact between our legislation, our way of building the relationship between citizens and the State and other European states: in summary, it is a standardisation and a regulatory balance at European level. However, the question arises - because we have had such comparisons on this occasion too - whether the European standard is an average among the virtues of all 27 countries that make up the European Union or whether it is rather the imposition on others of the standard of a single country. There is no doubt that, at Brussels level, some European countries have more capacity to be influential, to give direction and to impose their own vision. Let us also think about what has happened lately, with the action that President Draghi's Government has tried to do to impose the price of gas. We believe that Italy is not subordinate, but that it is capable of bringing European legislation to a media that is not always unfavourable to us, although, often and willingly, we have seen an a priori ideological condescension to implement European directives regardless of what would normally be called national interest. There is also an obligation on the Government to report to Parliament on the satisfaction of the national interest if, in the implementation of a European directive, this benefits or is burdened with it. We are constantly confronted with these issues, not always having the certainty that the Italian interest is contemporaneous and balanced with respect to the implementation of the European directives. What has been done with this law is a balancing operation, which, however, does not satisfy us for some parts. I am sorry, and Mr Marcucci makes a point of it, but what happened here yesterday in this House was not a coup d'état to try to put the government in difficulty; quite the contrary: it was an attempt to make the government understand - or rather, to its part, essentially to the Democratic Party - that, if we have to review certain situations, such as that of bathing concessions or those given to taxi drivers, it must be done with balance. We cannot act with the baton at a time when the economy of our country is in a prerecession phase. [[Applause]] Be careful not to lose sight of the substantive aspects compared to the formal ones, otherwise, for the umpteenth time, we will have to tell the Italians to be adapted to European legislation, thus avoiding infringements, but then leaving hundreds of thousands unemployed on the ground. [[Applause]] We cannot afford this, because it would be detrimental to the same credibility as the value of participating in the European Union, which cannot be to leave unemployed on the ground. We know that we have different sensibilities, because we are part of the Government because we are not part of a political programme to be implemented jointly in the elections, but of an appeal that we have gathered to resolve the economic problem and, before that, to the pandemic one. It would therefore be better to avoid, on the part of the Democratic Party and some of its allies, the provocations that we have also seen in these hours, which do not help to maintain balance and which, above all, do not help our fellow citizens to have confidence in politics. If we are to commit ourselves, we must do so thoroughly, in order to solve the problems of the economy and the financial difficulties in which we will soon find ourselves with the increase in interest rates. Everything else is waste of time and is done simply to create instability. [[Applause]] Nothing to do with policies that would like cannabis or would like to review the way in which Italian citizenship is acquired. [[Applause]] If in these hours such actions have been carried out, they have been carried out by the Democratic Party, not by the League; and if these actions are done it is to remove stability from the Government and put in trouble President Draghi. The point is to be aware of the situation in the country. We are doing so to the full and we guarantee support, if there are actions that resolve the problems of Italians, not if there are actions that aim to delay the problems in order to find a justification for the existence of their own or this Government. There are aspects which, even if not directly related to this European law, cannot escape the attention of this debate and also of this vote. Mr President, there is a European spirit of sharing and mutuality at the heart of this European law. We were very sorry to see in these hours betrayed this spirit with the choice made by the French judiciary to refuse extradition to Italy of criminals who have been stained with the worst hatred in the years of lead. [[Applause]] We are convinced that, every time we have given our approval to the approval of European regulations that try to put in collaboration the systems, whether economic, financial or judicial, between one country, we have done so thinking of mutual reciprocity, moreover consolidated also by the Treaty of Quirinale that in the next few days we will be voting here in the Chamber. We have therefore done so with the knowledge that these conditions, which are no longer conducive to the credibility of the European Union or to the credibility of individual states, could no longer appear. What has happened in these hours is a page which is certainly not commendable, but which we can only define as unpleasant and on which we are sure that the French Government will appeal, giving concrete implementation to the spirit underlying the European Union itself. Mr President, I entrust myself to the common sense of this House for the next vote on this matter, when we come to examine the ratification of the Quirinale Treaty and start to conclude, I make a final consideration. It is a pity to see that during this parliamentary term Mr Amendola is essentially incardinated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because he gives the idea of those who have not yet understood that talking about European policy is different from talking about foreign policy. This is a significant step, which also explains much of what is then done or not within the European standards and the law of European delegation. The spirit with which we participate in this Government is to give solutions; if instead someone does it to create opposition, that spirit does not belong to us and we certainly reject the provocations received to the sender even in these hours. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u31	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today, 30 June 2022, we are preparing to approve in the Senate the bill of European delegation 2021. You understood well: we are already in the middle of 2022, but we still have to approve last year's European delegation law. This is a complex and complex measure, but necessary for the adoption of European directives and other Union legislation. Its approval is very urgent to avoid other convictions linked to infringement procedures that involve enormous costs and lengthy disputes for our country. To make everyone understand better, mainly the citizens who follow us from outside the palace, the importance of this bill, I highlight some data that I consider significant. Italy appears to have already paid over €750 million in 2012-2021 alone as a result of sentences imposed by the Court of Justice of the European Union, so it is important that this measure allows further alignment of the internal law with that of the European Union. The themes dealt with in it deal with several aspects and are among the most varied. I describe only a few of them quickly: whistleblowing, company law, consumer protection, financial instruments, organic farming, the use of fertilizers, sewage sludge, animal testing, veterinary medicines and also trans-European transport networks (TEN-T), which should quickly connect the South with the North of the European Union by sea and land. There are also water-related standards. In my speech, among the many issues dealt with in the European delegation law, I will focus in particular on some of them. I begin with the directive introduced by the rapporteur, Mrs Masini, with one last amendment to Article 21-a, which will start by transposing into national law the directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption. The drama of the moment that we are facing because of the severe drought that is hitting our country shows, once again, if needed, how climate change is accelerating and its effects are increasingly visible and impacting, with good peace of those, now really few, who stubbornly continue to deny them. I would like to focus on this directive mainly for a couple of reasons. The first is content: although the directive does not deal directly with the protection of water sources and water scarcity, in the context of the directive, which is an integral part of the legislation, there is a clear reference to the need to guarantee everyone access to this precious resource. Always in the considered it is emphasized that too much water is dispersed and therefore wasted. To better understand the scope of the phenomenon list some disturbing data for Italy that must make us much reflect: according to the report Acqua 2022 of Istat in 2020 was lost 36.2% of the water introduced into the national network. You have heard well, colleagues: more than a third of the precious liquid is dispersed from the cholabrodian nets. This sad record unites our country from the South to the North, with Syracuse, Belluno, Latina and Chieti, to give you some percentage, which lose respectively 67.6 percent, 68.1 percent, 70.1 percent and 71.7 percent, with an average ranging from 67 to 72 percent, including the great and virtuous Belluno, also with this serious problem. It seems clear to me that our management of one of the most important assets ever for the life of the planet, water, the so-called blue gold, is absolutely inadequate. I repeat: inadequate. Fortunately, the first calls of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan for interventions on water networks have already started. As with many other areas, the National Plan represents an exceptional opportunity that we cannot afford not to make the most of, not only to relaunch our economy, severely tested by decades of stagnation, put to the test by the pandemic and now by the horrible war waged by Putin, but above all to leave to future generations a country in which it is still possible to live and live well, let me say. If we do not immediately work to correct our lifestyle, which is currently based on consumerism and which sees the planet at the service of man, this old anthropocentric conception, dated, risks leading to the extinction of mankind. We as Movimento 5 Stars marry the biocentrist vision, which puts the life of all living beings at the centre. By protecting the life of all living beings, we also protect our life. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us remember that, because otherwise it will remain very little of our beautiful country, of which we all boast, but of which few take care. The second aspect that I wanted to stress about this directive is how it has been approved in Europe. This is in fact the result of a legal institution that has not so far had much luck, but for us in Movimento 5 Stars it is of fundamental importance, namely the legislative initiative of the European citizens, the so-called democracy from below. In this case, this is the initiative "Right to water" presented to the European Commission on 2 December 2013, which led to the adoption of the Directive only in 2020. As you can imagine from the time taken from the beginning to the end of the procedure, it is certainly not easy or swift, but this directive is an example of how citizens can and should have a direct impact on European political life. [[Applause]] As you know, for us in Movimento 5 Stars, the citizen is always at the heart of our action. We are here to take forward the demands that the citizens, those whom we represent in Parliament, indicate to us, so the satisfaction is even greater. [[Applause]] Democracy from below, respect for the direction of our citizens. Finally, two small further details. The first concerns an amendment to the 5 Star Movement approved in the Commission concerning fertilizers and the use of sewage sludge in agriculture. During the parliamentary term we have dealt with this issue several times, namely the unscrupulous use that is made in some areas of Italy, in particular the Po Valley, invaded by materials, sludge not really respecting the current rules and European ones. The theme requires the utmost attention. With the adoption of this amendment, let us take a further small step towards the correct use of these sludges which - I remember - are a resource and their good use is fully within the perspective of the circular economy to which the Movimento 5 Stars has always been inspired. Finally, Mr President, I should like to conclude by stressing that there is still much to be done on the transposition of European legislation. With the pandemic there has been a sharp slowdown in transposition processes which has led to a significant increase in infringement procedures for failure to implement EU legislation. Over the last few months there has been a substantial acceleration in the adoption process by which the Government had been delegated. According to the latest update at the end of May 2022, we still have 91 infringement procedures in place, 32 of which are due to non-transposition of Community law. I now come to some attacks on the Movimento 5 Stars. I repeat, if there are any doubts about this, that the Movimento 5 Stars is firmly and firmly Europeanist, because the European Union is not just constraints and increases, as some claim, but rather a train of opportunities which, especially after the economic crisis, the pandemic and the war that is still underway, is changing course to create a different, fairer and more supportive Europe, which is more social-oriented. [[Applause]] We need a more cohesive Europe, stronger in the defence of the single market and its borders, stronger in its role as an international actor in global scenarios, more incisive in the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and the rule of law, than today, as never before, are protected on European territory. Therefore, Mr President, as far as I am concerned, for what the Movimento 5 Stars is doing, but also as a spur to the Government to do more and better in Europe on all the other dossiers on the table, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 10:58 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u33	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u34	MARTELLI (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, on behalf of the Italexit Group, I am naturally voting against. I take the words of Senator Marcucci, who could not say better: today's text measures Italy's ability to comply with European directives. This, therefore, is an act of submission. In our vision, Italy must not be subject to someone else. [[Applause]] Senator Marcucci always said that action by some should not be discredited to Parliament. In my opinion, the statements that Italy must comply with by means of these measures are an act of discredit to Parliament, so it is this same bill that does so. But I would like to continue by referring also to the statements of Senator Lorefice, who stressed the need to approve this rule because there are infringement procedures that cost. We reject completely the concept of a union for which you obey, make a law in which you demonstrate obedience and if you do not do what you are asked to pay a fine. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]] If this is the kind of European Union you want, it is all yours. These are the same considerations, reworded, that permeated the European Continent after the end of the Franco-Prussian War, when each State was looking for a powerful friend because there were external forces. It is now China, which has existed on the economic scene only for a thousand years; the other time it was the Russian Empire and, in fact, we remember the famous absurd alliance between France and Russia and the equally absurd alliance between Italy, the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia (the great Germany of Bismarck), then converted into the Triple Understanding. I want to conclude by saying that it is useless to make fake environmental statements of the type "we" are for a biocentric vision and then say that an incinerator in Rome is just a cabbage incinerator [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]] , or talk about the dispersion of sludge in agriculture after having passed, in the Government Count I, a law that authorized the dispersion of sludge. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] I'm sorry, but you guys are fake environmentalists. You have appropriated a concept that does not belong to you and history will do justice to this too. I therefore propose to vote against. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u35	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 2481, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2, which has been accepted by the Government. I note that no amendments have been tabled on this motion for a resolution. I call on Senators Bossi Simone, Lorefice, Masini, Marcucci, Ginetti, Giammanco, Bonino and Durnwalder to vote by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 1 is therefore precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u36	The next item is the communication by the President, pursuant to Rule 126a (2 bis) of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2631: Changes to the code of industrial property, referred to in Legislative Decree 10 February 2005, n. 30..., related to the maneuver of public finance. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u37	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined draft law title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, after consulting the representative of the Government, notes that the Document of Economy and Finance 2022, as approved with resolution at the session of the Assembly of 20 April 2022, declares linked, to the completion of the budget maneuver 2023-2025, among others, a bill revising the code of industrial property. For the purposes of the opinion to the President of the Senate on the provision in title, it is pointed out first the respect of the deadline of presentation (31 January), term that however - according to the established practice - is of authorising nature, with the consequence that the eventual presentation beyond the term would not affect the qualification of "connected" of the bill. As regards the requirement of compliance with the policy objectives, it is represented that the draft law under consideration is substantially in line with the one set out in the DEF 2022. Moreover, the measure, divided into three chapters - with the strengthening of the competitiveness of the country system and the protection of industrial property (Chapter I), administrative simplification and digitisation of procedures (Chapter II), coordination and adaptation rules (Chapter III) respectively - appears consistent with the parameters of the homogeneity of the content and competence of the reference administrations. The provisions also appear to be in conformity with the content of those connected to the public finance maneuver, as governed by Article 10 (6) of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u38	Pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission and taking note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the related bill no. 2631 does not contain provisions outside its object, as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 10, on the question of whether the Senate should promote conflict of attribution between State powers before the Constitutional Court, with regard to acts brought in the context of criminal proceedings pending before the Turin Court against Mr Stefano Esposito. The Junta decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the activation of a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, pursuant to Article 134 of the Constitution, against the competent judicial authority. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u40	Mr President, I will be very quick. The report is absolutely clear and comprehensive and it is only a question of raising a conflict of attribution for the restoration of legality that has been violated. Senator Esposito was intercepted - it appears to the record - in a period of three years when he was a senator in office. Senator Esposito, at the preliminary hearing, pointed out this situation by requesting the transmission of the documents to the competent Junta. The judge for the preliminary investigations had reserved himself to arrange for the outcome of the final decision, but so he did not and absolutely did not justify the request of Senator Esposito for the transmission of the documents to the Junta. I would like to point out that here we are not going to assess whether these interceptions were legal, legitimate or not, whether they were random or not: this is something that may have to be seen later. Here we have to limit ourselves to deciding whether or not the conduct of the judge was legitimate in response to a request from Senator Esposito regarding the interceptions that had been picked up when he was still a senator. That request has been totally disregarded, indeed it has not really been taken into account and this is a subject that should make us think, because it is repeating itself - we have discussed it several times - now systematically. I repeat, in this case it is simply asked to raise the conflict of attribution in order to assess whether the decisions taken by the judge - indeed, the non-decision taken by the judge - were legitimate or not, and this should be done by raising the conflict of attribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u41	Since no one wants to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u44	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the Junta's proposal because we fully support it. The judge for the preliminary investigation of Turin clearly violated not only the law, but the Constitution, so the Senate cannot remain indifferent to such a serious fact. A magistrate of the Republic who has the task of enforcing the law, violates it publicly. A student from the first year of law would also be able to read and interpret correctly Article 6 (2) of Law No 140 of 2003, which applies Article 68 of the Constitution. This article states that the judicial authority, where it intends to use in relation to the Member (in this case who was a Member of Parliament at the time) interceptions made on third party telephone users, must address the request to the Chamber to which the Member of Parliament belongs or belonged at the time when the conversations or communications were intercepted. That seems to me to be a very clear and unequivocal provision. What did the judge do for the preliminary investigation in Turin instead? First, in the face of the exception of defence, it was reserved to decide; then - as the rapporteur pointed out earlier - it did not decide on this exception, except that it would still have the right to decide on its own initiative. He did not decide of his own motion and did not decide at the request of the defence, but, in the decree ordering the judgment, he considered these interceptions as a source of proof on which to base the referral to trial. A blatant violation of the law and the Constitution, against which it is right that the Senate today decides to raise the conflict of attribution, still remaining that, when the Constitutional Court has inevitably annulled this act so abnormal, then it will be our task, it will be the task of the Junta first and then of the Assembly, to assess whether or not these interceptions cover that character of occasionality on the basis of which - as we know - it will be possible or not to declare them usable. This is an exclusive prerogative of the Senate and no judge of the Republic can afford to trample on it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u47	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to draw the attention of this House to a controversial issue which concerns the interpretation of Law No 140 of 2003, the implementing law of Article 68 of the Constitution. In fact, it is gradually consolidating a forced analog-extensive interpretation of Law No 140, which I believe today requires immediate and definitive legislative intervention. In fact, if a Member sees a violation of Article 68 by the judicial authority, can he himself invest in the House of Membership? The answer, also contained in Senator Cucca's report, is as follows: while, due to the unmistakability of the opinions expressed, the Member concerned may directly invest the Chamber in a matter of insindicability within the meaning of Article 3, paragraph 7, of the aforementioned law, on the contrary, this faculty is not recognized in relation to the use of interceptions of communications pursuant to Article 6 of the same law. Yet, on several occasions in this legislature, the Junta, as in this case, has decided to examine the request made by the Member concerned, even outside the cases of inconvenibility. This is not formally correct, but, in this case above all, there was no other way of bringing out a clear violation of the law by the magistrates who proceeded, who had the burden of investing the Junta. The time has come, however, to fill this vulnus in the legislation, and for this reason I have presented a draft law, which explicitly provides for the possibility of recourse by the Member concerned, even outside the cases of insincability, because the role of Parliament does not create more or less extensive interpretative practices, but legislates, as in this case. As I have already had the opportunity to argue in Junta, in this case the judicial authority, the prosecutor, but also the judges of preliminary investigations and above all the judge of the preliminary hearing, clearly violated article 6, paragraph 2, of law n. 140 of 2003 and the effect that it produces can only be effectively the conflict of attribution between powers of the State, as correctly proposes the Junta, albeit by majority, accepting the petition of the former senator Esposito. In fact, the use of evidence against a parliamentarians of interceptions on third party users cannot take place without the authorization of the Chamber to which it belonged and, in the case at hand, in the decree of referral to trial issued against the parliamentarians, despite the numerous exceptions presented in the various phases of the preliminary investigations, therefore both the gip and the gup, the decision-maker, or the judge of the preliminary hearing, did not take account of the exceptions, did not even address the issue, did not justify the rejection of the issue and put on the basis of his decision to refer 113 interceptions, considered relevant, compared to 126 requests from the public prosecutor, but above all compared to the 5,000 contacts happened in three years of investigation on the users between third parties and the parliamentarians who were in office. It is therefore evident, in this case, the violation of the law. Article 68 of the Constitution constitutes the protection of the parliamentary function with respect to the possible interference of the other powers of the State and, as we know, its perimeter has profoundly changed with respect to the immunity that existed before Tangentopoli, with the constitutional reform of 1993, which has limited it to the insinability of the opinions expressed and the votes expressed, in the first paragraph, and then to the inviolability of the parliamentary prerogatives in relation to certain acts, such as interceptions, searches and kidnappings. The reform has therefore ruled differently the immunity of Members of Parliament and, under Law No 140 of 2003, Parliament has implemented these constitutional provisions. Therefore, the limits of applicability of this Article 68 of the Constitution have become more explicit through various interventions of the Council, but in my opinion there are still some problematic issues, which have emerged also in the course of the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, essentially on the precise definition of several concepts, from the adaptation of the constitutional law above all to technological evolution, with the aim of understanding the most recent methods of communication through telephone or computer tools, alluding to WhatsApp and other messengers, up to the question of the contents referable to Members of Parliament, found on electronic devices of third parties subjected to seizure or inspection. In fact, the diction "in any form" contained in the third paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution implies a broad concept of interception, which includes both the interceptions in the strict sense, as well as the telephone records, as well as the interceptions in the broad sense, that is recordings and captures found on devices belonging to third parties. I believe that it is time to define these aspects precisely and that it is urgent to do so with the intervention of the legislator. To this end, I presented a draft law, No. 2578, which last month was assigned to the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a, in which, among other things, in addition to the extension of the possibility by the parliamentarians to invest the Junta beyond the cases of insindicability, the problem of the competence of the Chamber to which the former parliamentarians belonged is also solved, linking this competence at the time of the fact. Returning to the case we are dealing with, the judicial authority has totally eluded a precise provision of law, at several levels: both the pm, which could invest the judge of preliminary investigations, both the same judge for preliminary investigations, and finally - and this is really unacceptable - the judge of the preliminary hearing, the gup, which, despite the repeated request of the lawyers of part, who asked for a decision, has returned to judgment without ruling on this exception raised by the defense. I repeat that there was no other solution than to consider this violation and therefore authorise the conflict of attribution, to wait, then, for the dispatch of the acts by the judicial authority, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 140 of 2003, to assess the direction of the investigation act (i.e. if that interception or capture was directed towards the parliamentarians or occasional). Finally, as I have already pointed out in Giunta, I believe that there are reasons for a disciplinary assessment of the behaviour of the magistrates who have dealt with the Esposito case. I think that the presidency of the Senate can be a diligent part of investing the governing bodies of this disciplinary action, namely the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General at the Supreme Court. For these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal to the report of the Junta. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu-Eco Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u50	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the thoroughness of the report and the previous speech allow me to make only a few points, which are, however, necessary. As the vote by a very large majority of the Junta testifies, we are faced with a case of school. If we were to study all the passages that must be observed in so-called indirect interceptions, under the terms of the constitutional law, in this case we would see that not one has been respected. That is why the debate was almost unanimous in the Junta. The figure is striking, because several formal procedural passages have been shown peacefully at the acts, from which it is evident that not only is there a considerable number of captures, I would say practically macroscopic, but also that they affect a period of time that has characteristics of enormousness. We are talking about a period from 2015 to 2018. Since we are discussing usability, since indirect interceptions, as many as 113 captures out of 126 that have been considered usable are of interest to the former Senator Esposito. Why do I say it's all the steps? Even the necessary passage in the presence of such a large number of interceptions over time, so at some point you have to ask yourself the question whether the objective of the investigation has changed and even whether to ask permission to continue, as well as to use those interceptions, has not been observed. In conclusion, we must always stand in defence and in this case, by raising a conflict of attribution, we also pose the question of legality in the process because, as we have said several times, guaranteeing and the culture of guarantees are nothing more than the legality of the process which is obviously inseparable from what leads then to a decision on liability or not. The legality in the process - here we are also talking about the relationship between the powers of the State - is more generally the institutional pact between citizens and the State. Therefore, the culture of guarantees and the legality of the process are an integral part of the institutional pact between citizens and the State. Therefore, we must begin to say that, when it comes to judicial culture, we must still think that judicial culture must necessarily be part of the institutional culture. Finally, judicial culture must have among its pillars the culture of doubt, in the sense that the culture of guarantees for those who exercise jurisdiction is the culture of doubt and not of certainties and, since exceptions have also been formally placed on the usability of interceptions, we regret that in this case the doubt has not even touched on those who had the responsibility to proceed further. For all these reasons, the Democratic Party will also vote in favour of the report, which has been drafted in a very detailed and comprehensive manner - and to this completeness and articulation we welcome - so as to offer the Constitutional Court all the means to be able to decide. What has still been said in this House today, so that this report does not deal with the question of whether or not interceptions were usable, serves to point out that it is necessary to give back to the Senate the opportunity to express itself as the Constitution requires and this will be exactly the object and responsibility of the judgment on which the Constitutional Court will have to express itself. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u53	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an important entrepreneur from Turin, with already on his shoulders at least five pronunciations for mafia infiltration, banned from public contracts with the so-called anti-mafia interdictive, investigated for corruption and auction disturbance along with other co-investigators. His telephone user was intercepted and it turned out that this mafia-smelling entrepreneur had numerous conversations with his long-standing friend Stefano Esposito, senator at the time of the events in the last legislature, also investigated for the same crimes (corruption, auction disturbance, trafficking of illicit influences) and now at trial. But that is not the problem that the Junta is proposing to us. The question arises from the fact that the magistrate has not sent the Senate's request for authorization to use these many interceptions in good time to the Senate's Parliamentary Assembly and now, gentlemen, because of the delay in the request, the whole process is to be blocked against the senator, his friends and all the co-indicators and to send everything to the Constitutional Court to raise a conflict of attribution between the State's powers, as we have just heard. The report which will now be put to the vote calls for this to be blocked. It is certainly a very detailed report, full of fine legal technicalities, correct would be lacking, but not even a hint - not one - of the real turbid aspects of the affair. I say this because Senator Esposito, not only related, through hundreds of phone calls and messages, with this very long-time friend (he came to tell us that he has been a friend of his for over twenty years), an entrepreneur declared forbidden by mob infiltration; but the Senator would also do his utmost in any way illicitly, through corruption, disturbance of auction and trafficking of illicit influences, to have the interdictive anti-mafia canceled to his dear friend. But the most incredible thing is not even this: it is that Senator Esposito was also a member, here in the Senate, of the Anti-Mafia Commission! Do I make myself clear? I think I've made myself clear. I couldn't believe it. Basically, the investigation shows that the former Senator Esposito, in charge of monitoring the Mafia, did everything the other way around, acting in every way to help his friend illicitly erase that anti-Mafia interdictment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder: does this seem normal and acceptable to you? Can one remain indifferent to this? The Movimento 5 Stars cannot remain indifferent. Citizens do not remain indifferent. This story must shake every conscience. No one should be indifferent to the Mafia, which is clearly also within this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But do we realize? In fact, do you realize that today you postpone the trial of this senator, accused and sent back to trial to answer for the shady affairs that he himself had to fight? [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u54	Senator Gallicchio, please, until proven otherwise or until you prove it, it is not allowed to say that the mob is in here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u55	But do we realize these shadows? We realize the shadows. What about the discredit that this affair casts on the institutions? What credibility remains in Parliament's institutions? We of Movimento 5 Stars will not be accomplices. We report this. We oppose it here today and we will oppose it in all quarters. The dignity of the Senate and the Anti-Mafia Commission is at stake. The dignity of the citizens, who have elected us and whom we represent here in this House, is at stake. If this report by the Junta is adopted, how will it be soon, because I have listened to all the speeches and I have not heard anyone say that it will vote against, what example of honour, fairness and public ethics will you pass on to those who attend these events? It will be like slapping the conscience of the honest citizens, of the justice workers and of the Forces of the order that in years of investigation have worked to discover and bring to trial such corrupting and mafia activities. The Movimento 5 Stars, for all these reasons, rejects the proposal of the Junta. We want to run the justice process. It serves to protect the state, to protect citizens from the damage of mafia infiltration. We must not forget, in fact, that the Mafia, of whatever kind it is, is an enemy of the State, an enemy of the citizens and an enemy of all, every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't want to wait. For this reason, we in the Movimento 5 Stars will vote against sending to the Constitutional Court and ask that we decide immediately to authorise the interceptions, so that the trial can continue and we can get to the bottom of the matter. We in the Movimento 5 Stars want clarity, we want transparency, we want legality at all levels, starting with Parliament and Members of Parliament. This is what the citizens want right away, and this is what the 5 Star Movement has always wanted. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u56	I would like to point out that the Council's proposal to raise a conflict of attribution against the Turin Court in criminal proceedings against Mr Stefano Esposito was voted by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate to one or more lawyers in the free forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u57	Collegi, with letter dated 29 June 2022 the Senators Antonella Campagna, Primo Di Nicola, Daniela Donno, Raffaele Mautone, Simona Nunzia Nocerino, Vincenzo Presutto, Loredana Russo, Pierpaolo Sileri, Fabrizio Trentacoste and Sergio Vaccaro have communicated to form the Parliamentary Group called "Together for the Future - Democratic Center". The Bureau of the Group shall be constituted as follows: President: Primo Di Nicola; Vice-President of the Vicar: Vincenzo Presutto; Vice Presidents: Antonella Campagna, Daniela Donno, Raffaele Mautone, Simona Nunzia Nocerino, Fabrizio Trentacoste; Treasurer: Sergio Vaccaro. Therefore, these senators cease to belong to the Mixed Group. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.36 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u58	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister of Justice and Minister of the Interior will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Evangelista has the right to explain the question 3-03440 on the management of the database containing the evidence of the process relating to the collapse of the Morandi bridge, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister, on Thursday 7 July 2022 the first hearing of the debate on the collapse of the Morandi bridge, the motorway viaduct collapsed on 14 August 2018, causing the death of 43 people. At trial, with the accusations of multiple manslaughter, false, disaster, attack on transport security, there are 59 defendants; 100 civilian parts were admitted and the offended parties are 357, between relatives of the victims and people who were injured in the collapse. According to recent press reports, the parties' lawyers had asked the Registry of the Republic's Public Prosecutor at the Genoa Court to have access to the entire probative summary of the investigation, in order to extract a copy of the documents and documents necessary for the exercise of the right of defence. The investigative acts collected by the prosecutor to reconstruct the causes of the collapse are composed of thousands of documents: audio and video files that occupy about 64 terabytes of memory, or 34 billion indexed files. To have a comparison term a good CD can contain about one gigabyte, or one thousandth of terabytes. All the material is deposited in an entire room of the barracks of Genoa, used as a computer room: it is scanned material, e-mails, projects, computer programs, that is everything has been seized by the Finance Guard in four years of investigation. In order to obtain a copy of the entire summary of evidence some lawyers felt to be quantifying from the secretariat of the proxy a potential cost of 750,000 euros, a figure that in cases such as that of the Morandi trial could end up in fact seriously compromising the right of defense of the parties, in fact forced to pay, given the size of the file, amounts that are disproportionate and comparable in order of magnitude to those that could be the subject of a sentence for compensation. The same prosecutors in this case admitted, at the preliminary hearing, that they did not count all the data contained in the database. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, it is asked whether she is aware of the facts, whether she intends to give immediate clarification and what initiatives of competence she intends to put in place in order to guarantee the effective and concrete right of defence of all the defendants, the civil parties and the offended parties involved in the process for the collapse of the Morandi Bridge. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u60	Mr President, allow me to take this opportunity, at the very beginning of the process for the collapse of the Morandi Bridge, to express to the families of the victims and the survivors all my closeness and sympathy, which I have repeatedly expressed to them in person. Let me reiterate how important it is for the victims that the word of justice which must reach all victims from our judicial offices, especially of such serious facts. To this appointment of July 7, obviously you arrive after a long and complex work of the investigative judiciary that, with great and laudable commitment, has collected an enormous amount of elements for the evaluations that will be held at the court of Genoa in the contradictory of the parties. It was also my surprise when I read in the press reports about that figure that you remembered of 750,000 euros, referring to the cost of copying rights to extract the entire documentation. As soon as I read the papers, I immediately asked to acquire information at the relevant office for the reasons you said, information that seemed to allude to a serious compression of the rights of defence. In fact, immediately by the short route the office concerned provided me with the necessary clarifications, allowing me to exclude the justification of that news, i.e. to exclude that the Registry of the Public Prosecutor asked the parties for the sum of 750,000 euros. It is true, as we have said, that the amount of evidence is enormous and that software has been prepared specifically to be able to access and use all this amount of documentation collected also through the staff of the Finance Guard, however the parts of the process have had the opportunity to consult and extract a copy of all the documentation collected and transferred to the public prosecutor's file according to the costs and the current fees of the copying rights, which amount to 323 euros for every computer support on which the documentation has been poured. This means that the maximum cost incurred by one of the parties who had requested the full acquisition of the documentation was a total of EUR 7,000, which is certainly a considerable sum, but far from the EUR 750,000 that you reported in your question according to what emerged from the press. At that point, we wondered what the origin of such a different figure was. In this regard, we do not have any clear evidence, but the possible explanation that has been given to us by the Public Prosecutor of Genoa is that that figure can correspond to the estimate made by a computer company of which one of the accused has used to analyze the total volume of computer data, therefore it is not about the rights of copy, but it would correspond to a cost assumed by the computer consultant of one of the accused to analyze the documentation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Evangelista may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u61	I am very pleased with the Minister's response. We learn that the news was not true, or rather we learned the real terms in which this figure was required. Of course, I join the Minister in the embrace, solidarity and closeness to the victims of this huge disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u62	Senator D'Angelo should explain the question 3-03438. However, I see that he is not in the Chamber. I did not notice that. That doesn't happen very often. Let us move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u63	Mr President, I would like to point out that, as far as the questioner is concerned, the Quaestor of Caserta has initiated two disciplinary procedures for the dismissal, i.e. the dismissal of Antonio Porto, the chosen agent of the State Police, who during the period January-March 2022, in the capacity of provincial general secretary of Caserta of the trade union organization "Freedom and Security State Police," under the mandate of his national secretariat, has issued interviews, prepared leaflets and put in place numerous initiatives to defend the right to work and the free choice of members of the State Police not to undergo compulsory vaccination against Covid-19 with relative suspension of the right to carry out the work as provided for in Article 4-b of the Decree-Law of 1 April 2021, n. 44. Considering that, despite it is recognized that Antonio Porto has always presented himself as general secretary, for the province of Caserta, of the union "Freedom and State Police Security" and that it has always appeared with the nickname "Antonio Porto LeS-Polizia di Stato", the quaestor of Caserta has decided to start the disciplinary procedures cited for the dismissal as a result of the trade union activity carried out by Mr. Porto. It has to be assessed that during the period in question Antonio Porto was suspended from the right to carry out work without being entitled to remuneration, or any other compensation or compensation anyway denominated and that this period, therefore, was not useful for the purposes of social security, of service seniority and for the maturation of economic classes or shots or for the advancement, not contributing to the maturation of the ordinary leave, with the withdrawal of the card of recognition, of the plate of the weapon in individual endowment and handcuffs. Article 1 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 737 of 1981 states that the person belonging to the roles of the administration of public security that violates the specific and general duties of the service and discipline indicated by law, regulations or consequent to the issuing of an order, if the facts do not constitute a crime, commits disciplinary infringement and is subject to the following sanctions: oral appeal, written appeal, pecuniary penalty, deploration, suspension from service, dismissal. Those penalties must be graduated. It is therefore requested to know whether, in the view of the Minister in address, the disciplinary proceedings described may be initiated since the worker, following the initiation of other disciplinary proceedings, was, on the date of the disputes, suspended by the service; whether the quaestor of Caserta could initiate the same disciplinary proceedings against a person who expressed his views; whether it is not considered appropriate to intervene, within the framework of his own competence, in order to issue a circular of address to the competent administrative authorities aimed at reaffirming the legal principles set out in the judgments of the Court of Cassation No 11436 of 1995 and following, according to which the employee trade union representative is in an equal position with the employer when exercising his right of criticism within the limits of the continence, therefore the expression of a freedom constitutionally guaranteed by Article 39 cannot be sanctioned disciplined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u64	Mr President, the honourable Members ask for clarification on the establishment of two disciplinary procedures, which are still under way, to be carried out by a chosen agent of the State Police in service at the Caserta police station. The agent in question, within the framework of a program broadcast live radio, TV, web and social network, after having qualified as provincial general secretary, for the Province of Caserta, of the police union "Freedom and State Police Security" has made public statements in relation to the measures adopted by the Government to deal with the epidemiological emergency from Covid seriously in contrast with the duties to which the staff of the State Police are held, expressing in the circumstances damaging considerations of the honor of the President of the Council of Ministers and of the members of the Executive and of the Parliament. For these facts the quaestor of Caserta, on February 18, 2022, instituted a disciplinary procedure with contestation of disciplinary sanction and dismissal from service. The second disciplinary procedure originated from the fact that the agent, on several occasions, using channels of communication suitable to make his thought known to an indefinite plurality of persons, had made statements and put into practice conducted that have turned out to be in conflict with the duties of the members of the State Police, as well as damaging the duty of fidelity to the institutions and of the indispensable respect of the Constitution and the laws. Specifically, the claims attributable to the same, from the same writings, pronounced or constituting sharing of the thought of others, have been published on the Facebook page of the provincial secretariat of Caserta of the trade union organization in question. Also for these conducts, considered of obvious disciplinary disvalue, the quaestor of Caserta, last May 4, has initiated a disciplinary procedure. In view of the trade union office held by the agent in question, the quaestor of Caserta has made communications to the central administration, which then informed the trade union organization of its membership, pursuant to Article 32, paragraph 4, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 395 of 1995. From a technical and legal point of view, it should also be noted that, for the purposes of the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, there is no evidence that the employee was suspended for failure to comply with the vaccination obligation provided for in the anti-Covid legislation, as such form of suspension of employment does not extinguish the employment relationship and, therefore, does not prevent the exercise of disciplinary power towards the employee. Finally, as regards the extension and exact content of the trade union guarantees provided for in Article 36 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 164, as well as their relationship with the exercise of the right of criticism... [[The microphone is switched off automatically)...]] the evaluations will be returned to the holder of disciplinary authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u65	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Garnet for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u66	Mrs. Minister, I'm not satisfied with your answer. What you have said clearly shows that censorship is exercised about the free trade union activity of representatives of associations that are protected by law. So what is happening is very serious, because in fact this means that a trade union representative cannot even criticize the laws to protect the interests of the workers he is defending. All this means that a representative of the Forces of Order has no right to trade union protection, in fact. If the request for removal for Antonio Porto was confirmed, it would be a very serious act in my opinion that would actually put the tombstone on a rule of law in which we believed we were living, but it is obviously no longer so today.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u67	I would like to thank Minister Cartabia for waiting for Senator D'Angelo to come into the Chamber, who has the right to explain Question No 3-03438 on the reform of judicial proceedings on the rights of persons and families for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to apologise to the representatives of the Government and to my colleagues, but unfortunately I had to finish a speech, which is why I was late. Law No 206 of 2021 contains, inter alia, the delegation to the Government on urgent measures to rationalise proceedings concerning the rights of persons and families. This area of law has long been calling for a comprehensive and comprehensive reform that would provide for the unification into a single authority of reference of the jurisdictions now scattered among the various jurisdictions involved (ordinary court, court for minors, judge to protect); uniform procedural rules that would make order in a babel of different procedures from each other; an effective specialization of all those who operate there, from the judiciary to the lawyering, passing through social services and expert consultants. The Luiso Committee, which drafted the reform proposals, had already pointed out that in the current legislation proceedings for persons, minors and families were characterised by high fragmentation and diversified disciplines, at the expense of equal treatment and uneven interpretative guidelines. Precisely in the norms of the family's procedural law there are novelties that represent an important overcoming of provisions and guidelines that are no longer current, as is no longer the current idea of a family that is an island that the sea of law must only lap: a vision linked to the past and that had a meaning immediately after the season of totalitarianism, but that today would risk consolidating social imbalances, leaving in the hands of the strongest family dynamics. The expected new structure outlined by the delegation law takes into consideration a family in which the fragile members, therefore the minor and the weaker spouse, are holders of real subjective rights and the procedural rules are consistent with the principles of the right process; the objective of the response is achieved as quickly as possible, underlying the need for the protection of personal and family relationships; it also responds to the need for specialization and careful evaluation of the concrete case, as well as to the possibility of review and review, where it competes, by a collegiate superior body. Now, in view of the fact that the highly specialised single family court has the objective of ensuring uniform interpretative guidelines, also ensuring greater predictability of decisions, the predictability of the outcome of the proceedings will be able to reduce the litigation. Therefore, as is hoped for by several parties and also by the National Forensic Council, it is now more than urgent... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u69	The content of the question is quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u70	The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u71	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator D'Angelo for bringing the attention once again to one of the reforms of justice that were approved last year. He asked me in particular about time and resources to implement a reform that pursues the objectives you mentioned. The delegation provides that the implementing legislative decrees should be adopted within one year of entry into force. The entry into force of the delegation law was 24 December 2021, so the time will be up to 24 December 2022. However, I can already say that the work was started immediately after the approval of the delegation law, with the establishment of working groups for implementation, with my decree of 14 January 2022. The working groups have already completed their work, which has now moved to the legislative office for coordination, revision of the text, final drafting and drafting of all relevant accompanying reports. My prediction and my hope is that it can be brought to the Council of Ministers within a few weeks, so that Parliament and the relevant parliamentary committees can be given as long as necessary time for proper examination work. I thank everyone who has worked on it, because the enterprise - as you described - is very titanic. As regards the allocation of cover, since it has also referred to resources, the delegation law provides that no new or increased financial burden should arise and that the reform should take place with the human, instrumental and financial resources available to existing legislation. However, following an in-depth examination with our administration, we have verified that it will not be enough to move the magistrates who currently deal with the family in the various sections to this new court for people, because in that area they also carry out other tasks, while here they will be dedicated only to the family and to the people. So we will need an extension of the organic plant. I also recall that, at the time of the final approval of the delegation law, an agenda, among other things supported by a large spectrum of political forces of majority and even opposition, called for collegiality at first instance in this new family court, inter alia by implementing an orientation that I had agreed with the presidents of the courts, which I had specifically convened. In short, new resources will be needed; for what is in my power, I will endeavour to ask for adequate resources to be secured already by the next budget law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Angelo may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u72	Minister, I am pleased with the answer, particularly because I am aware that the path is complex and therefore needs to be brought to Parliament's attention in due time, so that it can carry out the task assigned to it. I am also pleased that, at the expense of the zero coverage provided for by the law, it has been realized that in fact new financial resources must be allocated, because with the existing staff and resources it would not be possible to complete and implement this reform, which is important, but it also needs additional staff and therefore expenditure and costs that must be covered.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u73	Senator Balboni has the right to explain the question 3-03439 on the recent increase in arrivals of irregular immigrants, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that if the Rules of Procedure allowed this, I would have liked to ask the Minister of Justice about the scandalous decision taken yesterday in France regarding the failure to grant extradition of 10 dangerous terrorists, communists and murderers. However, the timing did not allow it and so I return to the question I had put to the Minister of the Interior about the truly incredible number of landings that we are recording every day on our coasts. The Minister, in recent days, has authorized the docking of as many as five different ships, for a total of about 1,000 illegal immigrants, who have therefore been authorized to land in our ports. The data speak for itself: at the same date of 2019 the landings were 2,114 immigrants arrived illegally, in 2020 this number was 6,614, in 2021 we reached 19,749 and today, Minister, we are 26,652. These are really impressive numbers, which are not even complete, because as we know, the ghost landings are not recorded, which no one is able to quantify exactly. These figures alone show that it was extremely wrong to dismantle the so-called security decrees, which also in 2019 and 2020 had the results that I referred to. You wanted to set up a wide mesh system and that is the effect. As if that were not enough, Minister, a few days ago you made statements, without perhaps realizing how much they can contribute to the immigration business. In order to summarize with a very effective phrase that used Daniele Capezzzone on "The Truth" a few days ago, you developed a theory that the solution would be "more immigrants, more cooperatives," that is exactly the opposite of what you would need: I refer, Mrs. Minister, to your statements at the Confcooperative Assembly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u75	Mr President, first of all I would like to make one point: all landings, including autonomous landings, are indicated in the dashboard of the Ministry of the Interior, so there are no more landings than those indicated in the dashboard. This is a rule we have always had, even in recent years. At national and European level, for the effective re-determination of migration management policies, I have repeatedly pointed out and highlighted that the migratory pressure comes from a set of causes, such as the political and institutional fragility and economic weakness of the countries of origin and transit of flows. In addition, there are possible effects of the food crisis due to the shortage of wheat and seeds resulting from the extension of the Ukrainian Russian conflict, which further weakens the socio-economic systems of those countries. This means that the response to irregular immigration cannot be without concerted European action. In this sense, on 10 June, at the European Union's Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg, an implementation package of the first phase of the gradual approach to immigration and asylum was approved, including a solidarity mechanism to help first-entry Member States and two regulations to strengthen the protection of the European Union's external borders. In addition to Italy, 18 Member States of the European Union, three Associated States, have acceded to the Agreement. The agreement constitutes a concrete progress of strategic importance towards a European policy for the shared management of balanced migratory flows and inspired by the principles of solidarity and responsibility that have always been the cornerstones of the Italian position on migration governance at European level. It is also important to point out that the agreement mainly favours Member States facing landings following search and rescue operations in the Mediterranean and along the western Atlantic route and is based on the assurance of offers of appropriate relocation quotas. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the operational platforms for the speediest implementation of the relocation have already been launched at technical level. These advances are also the result of the comparison of coordination between the various European countries thanks to the impetus of Italy and its intense weaving work culminated in the summit that we held with the Mediterranean countries in Venice last 3-4 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am surprised that you are also able to take into account ghost landings because if they are such, no one can know how many they are, when they happen and to what extent. Congratulations, though. With regard to the theory of relocation, Madam Minister, we cannot expect to relocate migrants who arrive on our coasts without being real refugees. You know better than I that those who really escape from war, persecution, who really are entitled to refugee status are at most 10% of those who arrive. The other 90 percent are economic refugees, as is also shown by the demographic composition; they are largely young and strong men, unlike Ukraine where 90 percent are women and children who really run away from the war. Do you understand, Madam Minister, the difference? The solution is not to help landings, it is not NGOs that act as sea taxis for boatmen for human trafficking. The solution is to block departures; less departures means fewer deaths. That's a statistic, Madam Minister. The only way to block departures is to ensure that, in agreement with the States of origin, there is what we call in naval blockade jargon, even if it is not really a naval blockade because we do not propose an act of war, but an act of peace in agreement with the countries of origin so that asylum applications are made in these countries and at the diplomatic representations of the countries of origin or transit can be submitted applications and screened. This is a screening that we should do in any form of relocation, however, we can get the green light from Europe. It is very questionable that European countries accept immigrants who are not entitled to remain on our territory. Therefore, Madam Minister, the solution that Brothers of Italy proposes, which I hope the Government will eventually adopt, is to ensure that these boats of despair do not leave. That is the real objective we must aim for. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u77	Senator Biti has the right to explain the question 3-03433 on the use of PNRR resources for urban regeneration, even in minor municipalities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u78	Madam Minister, we have tabled this question to understand how the Government intends to remedy some small issues that concern the use of the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan for urban regeneration also in smaller municipalities and by minor municipalities I mean above all those between 5,000 and 15,000 inhabitants, but sometimes even up to 50,000. Madam Minister, you know what the municipalities of Camponogara di Montespertoli and Lauria have in common - one in the North, one in the Centre and one in the South - that is to say that for more rules they would not find suitable calls for urban regeneration projects. We know that the current Government has also been created, and above all, to implement the principles contained in the Next Generation EU and therefore in the PNRR. One of these, the first in our view, is to fill inequalities, which are also territorial. In the municipalities between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants, representing 18% of Italian municipalities, there are 18 million people, 18 million citizens who will not be able to benefit from PNRR funds for rules and criteria that have been used so far in the calls for urban regeneration (PNRR and sport, for example). Moreover, there are some criteria, such as the index of social and material vulnerability (IVSM) now famous among our mayors, or the association that is required for municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants, which are laces that do not allow access to these calls, which instead would give the possibility to have resources that could reduce those social marginalities that in small municipalities are fundamental. The large cities on their part have characteristics that allow to have in themselves resources and investments also from private; in small municipalities this is very difficult, especially in rural areas, but also in urban ones. Therefore, reducing inequalities, which is the priority of the PNRR, according to our consideration, cannot be discounted for smaller municipalities. The same opportunities must be given: the PNRR asks us to do so. I would also like to close by referring to so many amendments that the Democratic Party has tabled in this regard and that we do not understand why they have always had an opposite opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u79	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u80	Mr President, in advance and without prejudice to the prevailing powers of the Ministry of Economy and Finance in this area, it should be recalled that Law No 160 of 2019 provided for municipalities with a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants and for each of the years 2021 to 2034 specific financing for investments in urban regeneration projects aimed at reducing marginalisation and social degradation, as well as improving the quality of urban decorum. The provision of these contributions was implemented by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 January 2021, following an agreement acquired in the State-City Conference and local autonomy also with the ANCI. The criteria for the selection of projects were identified in that forum as referring to the social and material vulnerability index defined by Istat as a result of the need to recognise a preference for the most disadvantaged. I also recall that to extend the scope of the beneficiaries additional resources were allocated for 905 million euros by Decree-Law No 17 of 2022, allowing also the financing of all other works admitted in the final ranking. The 2022 budget law also provided for the allocation to municipalities of investment grants up to a total limit of EUR 300 million for the current year, always in order to encourage investments in urban regeneration projects. Among the possible beneficiaries are municipalities with a population of less than 15,000 inhabitants who, in associated form, have a population exceeding that limit. The same budget law provides that, if the amount of requests exceeds the amount of resources, the allocation is made to municipalities with a higher value than the social and material vulnerability index. With regard to the problem of the use of the index in question, highlighted by the honourable Member, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance will first of all be able to assess possible solutions to meet the criteria underlying this index, with additional parameters aimed at ensuring a wider territorial distribution of available resources in relation to the applications submitted. Finally, as regards the possibility, also mentioned by the questioner, of redirecting to the municipalities minor residual resources of the PNRR, it cannot be excluded that this Plan has been structured, defined and approved in relation to specific missions and related objectives, thus resulting in the finalisation of their respective resources. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Biti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u81	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Lamorgese for addressing us to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, to which we will undoubtedly be asking similar questions. One question remains: we must give an answer to the many mayors and mayors who administer this 18% of municipalities, these 18 million people who, I repeat, cannot access resources that, in our opinion, are also limited and we would like them to be expanded. Above all, however, there are the vulnerability index, the fact of having to associate and other laces and laces that prevent these municipalities from accessing these resources. These municipalities are also the ones that suffer the most from abandonment to the big cities. We have always said to ourselves, all the parties, that we must guarantee to all the territories and to all our Municipalities that we have services that allow those who choose to live us to continue to live there willingly: therefore, in the full spirit of collaboration that we have always had and that we continue to have, totally, with the Government, we ask them to make us understand also how we can help him, perhaps with acts of direction, to ensure that there are no these inequalities, that penalize 18 million citizens and the many Municipalities that would have available resources to employ.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u82	Senator Ruotolo has the right to explain the question 3-03419 on the criminal resurgence in the metropolitan area of Naples, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u83	Minister, once again I address you, while acknowledging the commitment that you and the Forces of Order are showing in addressing the criminal issue in the metropolitan area of Naples. Periodically I ask you on this front and I realize that, instead of you, it should be the President of the Council who should inform us about the strategy of the entire Government for the fight against the mafias, in this case the camorra. I would like to reflect, ladies and gentlemen, on the fact that, at this moment, democracy is suspended in the metropolitan area of Naples to 150,000 inhabitants, because three municipalities, Castellammare di Stabia, Torre Annunziata and San Giuseppe Vesuviano, have been dissolved by the Council of Ministers in a hundred days for conditioning the camorra. The fight against camorra is a national emergency, which concerns democracy and respect for constitutional rights. The rise of criminal episodes appears in worrying growth in many areas of the city of Naples, with dynamics of contrast between Camorrist groups, increasingly fluid and less stable, and therefore needing to assert itself with the use of force for the control of illicit trafficking. Minister, you will not have missed the report presented by the Bank of Italy on the North-South divide, on the spread of illegal phenomena and organised crime which, in addition to having a heavy impact on the quality of life of citizens, is also reflected on the world of work and on the growth of the territory, imposing costs on businesses and distorting the functioning of the market. In this context, the differences in economic development at the territorial level have widened even further and Campania has alarming statistics on the economic and social front. As you know, there are several initiatives of associations, volunteering, the world of school and parishes, which try to build meaningful and increasingly widespread forms of commitment for the ransom of the territory. The initiative of the educational pact for the metropolitan city of Naples, signed by the Curia, the Minister of the Interior (by her), the Minister of Education, the mayor and the President of the Region, sets itself the explicit objective to combat more effectively the phenomenon of school dispersal and to promote paths of education to the legality for children, even if precisely in these hours it is making to discuss the distribution of the funds allocated by the minister Bianchi. In the current economic and social context, the mix between institutions and sick entrepreneurship, between organised crime and the economic fabric... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] the investments of the PNRR puts to everyone the necessity of an additional attention in order to eradicate the evil from the territory, already invested from a heavy discomfort also following the pandemic. In essence, Mrs. Minister, I ask you to know what your opinion is regarding the premises set out and whether you agree with the need for a more detailed intervention by the Government. I listen carefully and thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u84	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Naples is at the heart of the government's political agenda because of its strategic importance to the country's development, as demonstrated by a series of initiatives undertaken on the ground, of a cross-cutting and interinstitutional nature. Among the most recent and far-reaching interventions, I recall that last January 19 was signed the agreement for the promotion and implementation of a participatory and integrated security system for the development of the city of Naples, between prefecture, Campania Region and Municipality. This instrument contains a set of broad-spectrum planning shared by the aim of promoting territorial development conditions in a legal framework. Between the main measures previewed from the agreement, I remember the institution of tables of observation near the ten municipalities, the start of tables for the occupational revival, in particular in the field of the tourism, with the Campania Region and the Municipality of Naples; the protocol for the potenziamento of the legality and the safety on the places of work, with reference to the harbour area of Naples, own in order to prevent also accidents and occupational diseases. Further projects aim at the prevention of youth deviance: among these, I recall the project "Percorsi di inclusione territoriale ed empowerment nel rione Sanità (Piter) di Napoli," funded by the National Operational Project (PON) legality 2014-2020 of the Ministry of the Interior, for taking charge of 300 children aged between six and sixteen years at a serious risk of social exclusion. An interinstitutional agreement against educational poverty and school dispersal was also signed in the Neapolitan capital on 13 May. These actions are accompanied by those most targeted to the prevention of crime and among them I would like to remind you of the creation, in the prefecture, of an inter-force analysis group on the circulation of illegal weapons in the metropolitan area of Naples, aimed at identifying the dynamics of the circulation of weapons and the relative modalities of supply. A progressive strengthening of the police force's staff was also planned: last February 100 units were assigned to the Naples police station and a further increase of 70 units is scheduled for July. In addition, on the basis of the needs represented by the prefect, as a summer reinforcement, it is planned to send an additional 100 units between Carabinieri and Guardia di Finanza. The control of the territory was then strengthened through the employment of about 90 units per day of the police crime prevention department and 30 military of the operating intervention teams of the 10th Regiment Carabinieri "Campania." Finally, I inform you that, thanks to the funds made available by the PON legality 2014-2020, in addition to the projects already carried out, others are in advanced state of definition in the field of video surveillance systems, located in various areas of the metropolitan area, also to protect the large cultural and artistic heritage present. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Rotolo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u86	Mr President, Mrs Minister, everything you have said is true and I would like to thank you, but I would like to remind you of an interview I did in the past, when I interviewed an entrepreneur who had sentenced ten camorists because they were extorting her shop: I asked her if she was not happy with this and she said no, because there were a thousand others outside. That's the point. So, the request is to have attention; of course, all things are in the pipeline, we have to work on prevention and all the things you have announced are there, written, and we know them, but we also have to work on repression. I tell you the last: on social media - where everything is going - there is also the appeal a few days ago of a mother in the district of Pianura who addresses not to the police and the State, but to the other clan who has kidnapped the son of twenty-seven years, who has been missing the appeal for two days. We must always learn and have in mind the needs and fears of our citizens. We can't promise a policeman on every street in Naples, that's what ours know, but definitely the video surveillance. On this I have seen that it has taken note of an old wrong list, so to speak, from which they had been kept out of reality like the municipalities of the northern area of Naples. This is the appeal that I make to them and I also address it to the parties, because the real theme, if it is true that there are three municipalities dissolved for mafia, if it is true that there is a problem of reform of the law... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .politics, is the selection and quality of the ruling classes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u87	An important appeal, for which we thank you. Senator Toffanin has the right to explain the question 3-03441 on the recent violent events in Peschiera del Garda and their connection with the flows of irregular immigrants, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u88	Mr President, Minister, as you know, on Thursday 2 June 2022 about 2,000 boys and girls, mainly of second-generation Maghreb origin or immigrants in Italy, poured in mass to Peschiera del Garda, in the province of Verona, to participate in the event called "Africa in Peschiera del Garda" (Africa in Peschiera del Garda), street rave organized through word of mouth via social network. The lakefront of the Venetian municipality was invaded by a human tide that caused moments of tension and social disorder: brawls, vandalism and harassment, up to the necessary intervention of the Forces of the order in an anti-riot estate. The situation returned almost to normal around 5 p.m., when most of the boys went to the train station to return to their origins. On board these trains, however, there have been further acts of heavy harassment, physical and verbal, by North African boys against some underage girls who were returning to Milan. On 14 June, the Forza Italia Group of the Senate presented the question 4-07125, at the first signature of Senator Aimi. You, Minister, also responded to the events of Peschiera on 14 June in the House of Members, but it is considered that attention should be paid to this matter so that the subsequent measures do not remain limited to this episode, but become structural, so that the prevention system becomes regularly operational. We must consider it precisely in the light of the fact that the dashboard of the Ministry of the Interior - as has already been mentioned by my colleague - to date records 26,922 landings of immigrants, which are increasing compared to last year, which recorded 19,893, or 6.715 of 2020, and also taking into account the illegality (250,000 people in the last five years). We therefore ask you, Minister, what are the updates on the events of Peschiera del Garda and what are the measures taken so far compared to that episode and to avoid the repetition of such reprehensible events; what measures you intend also to take to integrate foreigners present with a residence permit in Italy and to remove those who are deprived of it; what measures you intend to take in the face of further landings from Africa of untitled foreigners, also in anticipation of the feared food poverty, which you would hardly be able to integrate as you should, given that Italy this year is also facing a large number of Ukrainian refugees (well 141.000) and finally, what are the estimated burdens for the reception of refugees for this year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u89	As I have been able to report, as the honourable Member also pointed out, on the occasion of a previous question time in the Chamber of Deputies, the events which took place last 2 June in Peschiera del Garda are part of a phenomenon that has been pouring into the shores of Peschiera and Castelnuovo di Garda in recent times, especially in the summer, a sustained daily flow of mainly second-generation foreign young people from the neighbouring provinces. More than 2,000 young people have concentrated on that occasion on a free beach on the coast, giving rise to harassing behaviors that have not, however, involved bathers. Following the joint intervention of the armed forces present on site and reinforcements of the State Police, without use of force, the beach was liberated and the young people were accompanied to the railway station. This has led to a situation of overcrowding on board the trains that should have brought the young people back to Lombardy and it is in this context that the episode of sexual harassment suffered by five underage girls, for which, like the events on the beach of Peschiera, investigations are being carried out coordinated by the attorney of Verona. In the latter case, the investigation carried out allowed four persons deemed liable for injury, damage and resistance to the public official to be referred to the judicial authority. In a preventive way, the prefect of Verona has promoted an intense activity of connection with the local administrations, the railway and road transport agencies, as well as the managers of the amusement parks Gardesani, directed to realize an integrated model of monitoring, control, filtering of the flow of the passengers both on the way and on the return from Peschiera, with the use of carriages equipped with equipment of internal video surveillance and of people counter. The channels of communication to the public have been enhanced through computer applications aimed at updating users, especially with reference to visitors to the Garda amusement park, about the crowding situations of trains that connect Peschiera to Lombardy. The new operational model for all weekends has 30 additional units of the state police departments, as well as the ordinary reinforcements of the three police forces set up by the plan to strengthen the summer surveillance service dedicated to the tourist resorts. I also inform you that the day before yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee for Public Order and Safety at the Verona Prefecture, a verification was carried out of the measures taken with the integrated device for the safety of Basso Garda, from which have emerged positive results thanks both to the filtering and control measures in the entrance, and to the use of 13 new trains equipped with video surveillance and people count. At the same time, daily services of prevention and control at the station of Peschiera continue, by the railway police, and the departures from the main railway stations of Lombardy to the other tourist resorts of Garda are monitored. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Toffanin has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u90	Minister, thank you for your reply, but I cannot be completely satisfied with it. I would have expected additional elements about the responsibilities, beyond the four subjects that have been identified, since by now several days have passed, also to give a strong and timely signal, also in the perspective of prevention. This really didn't have to happen. Moreover, it is true that our question was based on this disgusting affair, but it went far beyond that, because our concern is widening. Given the complexity of the situation we are experiencing, it is necessary to look for a much more complex and structural action, which takes into account a prospective vision, considering that the geopolitical structure at international level is changing, with consequences that must be able to face in a structural way. We must consider the various dynamics: integration, especially with the second generations of immigrants, the arrival by mass and increasing of refugees from Ukraine and the numerous presence of illegal immigrants, with the forecast of even more massive landings. In this regard, we have no plans from the Ministry and we have not even been told the amount of resources made available to address these problems. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u91	Senator Iwobi has the right to explain the question 3-03437 on the phenomenon of the slums of immigrants, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u92	Mr President, Minister, these days the death of an African citizen at the slum tower Antonacci is reported in Rignano Garganico, in the province of Foggia, following a fire that has involved the camp, which has hosted for years thousands of immigrants engaged mostly in agricultural work and with a significant numerical increase during the harvest season. There are more and more cases of slums, tendostructures and spontaneous settlements of migrants, which host people mainly employed in seasonal agricultural work on the national territory, where there is a dramatic, inhuman and complete abandonment situation, with considerable problems related to the issues of health and public safety, as well as the safety of the migrants present. These settlements represent a concrete example of the difficulties of management and integration due to the numbers of immigration out of control. These places pose risks of public order and health for the surrounding area and risk food for organised crime businesses, as well as seriously putting the same safety of guests. The labour exploitation of migrants in the agriculture sector is a scourge for our country, which generates social insecurity and precariousness and feeds the black economy and organised crime. Finally, it must be assessed that no restrictions on landings and no serious policies of containment of exceptional migratory flows lead to an overload of the reception system, which feeds the bad management of migrants on the Italian territory and the consequent abandonment on the territory of thousands of migrants mostly in the situation of irregularities. In our opinion, as a solution, it is essential to invest in training, work and assistance, in order to accelerate the consequent process of voluntary returns, which is able to bring benefits, wealth and development to the country of origin, also pursuing the concept of discouraging departures, as a pillar of future immigration policies. The question, Minister, asks whether he is aware of the numbers of spontaneous and self-managed settlements of migrants present on Italian territory and what initiatives he intends to take in order to manage and put an end to this emerging situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u93	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u94	Mr President, about the settlement of San Ferdinando, it is clear that the original shantytown has been demolished and replaced by a tenttown in which about 180 migrants currently live, whose presences vary according to the periods of the year. In order to prevent possible tensions and to allow prompt intervention in case of necessity, the prefecture of Reggio Calabria has arranged a police police guard and one of the fire department to intervene promptly in case of fire. The prefecture has long been engaged in the promotion of initiatives aimed at overcoming the problem. Last February, just in the wake of a protocol signed in this sense last September by the Ministry of the Interior, the prefect of Reggio Calabria, together with the president of the Regional Council, the mayors of Gioia Tauro and San Ferdinando, examined the possibility of allocating seasonal workers at the guesthouse, with the consequent overcoming of the tent city. The project, presented on April 28 from the regional council member to social policies, provides for the realization of an eco-sustainable village of experimental character, composed of housing modules, prefabricated used as a dwelling and related to a set of open spaces and shared services. Preliminary procedures for the implementation of the project are under way. As for the settlement of Rignano Garganico, the prefect of Foggia reported that, in order to overcome the abusive settlements of farm workers and promote the finding of dignified housing solutions, by decree of the Minister of Labour and social policies were allocated to local administrations 200 million euros in the framework of the funds of the PNRR, and of these to the Municipality of San Severo were allocated 27 million euros. In addition, as part of the initiatives aimed at improving the living conditions of foreign seasonal workers and, at the same time, to counter the phenomenon of the caporalate, the Puglia Region has created in the territory of San Severo a guest house called Fortore company, for 400 places. The Municipality of San Severo is also beneficiary of resources equal to more than 4 million euros from the PON legal fund 2014-2020 of the Ministry of the Interior for the realization of the project called Il Mosaico di San Severo, that aims to recover and requalify a structure destined to the hospitality and social inclusion of the workers. Finally, it should be noted that the realization of abusive settlements of migrants is a phenomenon dependent on many variables, such as the particular geopolitical situations of the territories of origin of migrants, the seasonality of certain sectors, starting from the agricultural one, in which foreigners often find work more easily. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . are the subject of immediate intervention by the Forces of the Order, which allow, in agreement with the territorial authorities, to clear it, thus avoiding the rooting of situations of discomfort.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u95	I give the floor to Senator Iwobi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u96	Mr President, Madam Minister, with all due respect, I regret to repeat my deep dissatisfaction, because during my visit to one of the Tendopolis, on 20 June last, I was able to see the situation more than dramatic, inhumane, and complete abandonment of the camp. [[Applause]] , which presents considerable problems, as I also mentioned earlier, related to health issues. One thing is to have an ongoing project, another thing is to fix these human beings at the moment. [[Applause]] I'm sorry to say, but the scenario I've seen lately is not worthy of a civilized country like ours, so you have to act. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u99	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, the governor of the government of the best, who, with the sending of arms to Ukraine, is feeding the dirty war waged by the U.S. and NATO and who had appealed as a bieco dictator to Turkish President Erdoğan, except then, in a sort of historical nemesis, to go hand in hand, according to the old saying that among these we understand better, has repeatedly said that the package of sanctions to Russia is working. In fact, while the ruble has strengthened and Russia continues to do business with gas and oil, strengthening the axis of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (the so-called BRICS countries) with China, India and Pakistan, in the new world order that implies new payment systems alternative to the euro-dollar, from tomorrow Italian citizens will pay bills of light and gas even more salt than prices and tariffs already tripled before. In the third quarter of the year they will find bills more expensive than 195 euros for the light and 462 euros for the gas, with yet another stagata of 657 euros for the supplies of energy. For President Draghi and the government of the best, however, sanctions to Russia are working. Not to mention the expensive fuels, with the prices of one litre of petrol that exceeded 2.2 euros (4.60 lire per litre) and those of diesel that on the net even exceed those of petrol. Despite this, which increases the erosion of the purchasing power of wages, salaries and pensions among the lowest in Europe, icing on the cake, comes like a boulder the increase of motorway tolls on the roads of the Italians, just in conjunction with the period of greater displacement, for those who can still afford the summer holidays. Motorways for Italy in fact, the same one that manages the hen from the golden eggs of the concessions and that has caused the tragedy of the Morandi bridge (with 43 victims), will trigger an increase of 1.5% of the already prohibitive highway rates, a cargo considered, goodness his, really little by the managing director. As users pay every day the price of a service in sharp deterioration, between yards, delays, traffic and various criticalities, the tariffs should decrease instead of increasing. I'm closing, Mr. President. In an appeal to the TAR of Lazio, presented by lawyer Granara on behalf of associations of enterprises, it is stated that the lords of the tollgate and tolls have benefited of 21,3 billion euros from the Government Draghi-Franco-Giovannini, so broken down: 9.1 billion for the quotas, 8 billion for the collection of the debt of Autostrade for Italy (Aspi), 3,4 billion for the collection of the damages caused by the Morandi bridge. Thank you, Mr President, because, having put more questions, I hope that some answers will come from the Government of the worst looters in the pockets of Italian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-447.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.13 p.m.).
