ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 23 December 2021. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u3	The next item is: Communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the submission of a bill for the conversion of decree-laws. On 30 December 2021, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Health: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 229 of 30 December 2021 on urgent measures to control the spread of the outbreak by COVID-19 and health surveillance provisions" (2489).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u4	On 28 December 2021, the Minister for Relations with Parliament sent the following draft law of initiative of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Health: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 221 of 24 December 2021 extending the state of national emergency and further measures for the containment of the spread of the epidemic by COVID-19 of 24 December 2021 (2488), already presented to the Chamber of Deputies on 24 December 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u7	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, over the past few days, the report has documented the diamond scam (for EUR 1.3 billion), sold to bad-headed accountants at three times the market price. It is a fraud on which they investigated the Antitrust and in 2017 the Public Prosecutor of Milan, with reference to the companies Intermarket diamond business (IDB), then failed, Diamond private investment of Rome (DPI) and to several banks, among them MPS. Diamonds were sold as a good refuge, with a constant yield of 3-4 percent per year. "Report" aired the testimony of an official of the team of inspectors of Banca d'Italia, Carlo Bertini, who revealed the involvement of the highest MPS leaders in the diamond scam. When he was entrusted with the task of supervision and control, Dr. Bertini discovered an unimaginable business and interest, thus realizing - these are his words - that he had met with strong powers. Bertini explains that, while investigating MPS, he has acquired sufficient documentation to make him suspect an agreement between Viola, Profumo and the manager of DPI, Maurizio Sacchi, in the sale of diamonds. Perfume and Viola, during the start of the diamond scam, were President and CEO of MPS. Bertini, as a rect official, reports to his head of service as Banca d'Italia, Ciro Vacca: a reckless move in the country upside down, with persecuted honests and unscrupulously rewarded sly. Someone tells Bertini that it's not time to raise a fuss: do you want to be quiet or do you want to leave with a war? Against who? Bertini brings his grievances to the table of the head of vigilance Paolo Angelino, who repeats: you have a wife and children, think of them; you seem really too involved. He says: halt, gentlemen; here someone has done a scumbag, I go to the internal audit and to Visco, I write a letter and I go to the magistrate, etc. It has documented the involvement in the business of diamonds of politicians, lawyers and Masons related to the 'ndrangheta. When Bertini discovers the alleged ties that revolve around Pittelli, he points out to the deputy general manager of Banca d'Italia Perrazzelli, who answers: "Managing this kind of thing requires a great freedom; it doesn't seem to me that it is the mode not only in here, but in all the great structures, that move in a military way; in my professional life, I found myself faced with scary things, against which I was told that I had to be like a marble statue, so let them slide on me like water and this thing here opened my eyes on how in Italy and in the world it becomes a career." So he invites Bertini to slip onto the story and close not only one eye, but both of them. Mr President, in conclusion, it is a scandal that involves the highest summits of Banca d'Italia and never documented before, which opens a gap in the curtain of omerta, institutional protection and servile obedience to the hierarchy and explains the complicity of supervision in cracks and bank failures, with at least one million defrauded families from serial bankruptcies of recent years, for an estimated value of 200 billion euros. I have put a question on this subject, and I hope that the Government will answer that question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u10	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, your communications reveal the situation we are in, which is indeed that of a Constitution that has been bypassed and a Parliament that has been reset, mocked and, I would say, insulted. Mr President, you spoke (it is certainly not your fault) of two decree-laws which were brought to the attention of Parliament (as it were), on 24 and 30 December. We are still waiting to start voting on 26 November, on the same subject. In other words, Parliament has not yet been able to express its opinion on the Decree-Law of 26 November, which rains over those of 24 and 30 December, and now the media of the regime are preparing the way for a further, fearful decree, with hallucinating measures, which is announced for 5 or 7 January. This is in the total impossibility of Parliament to say its own, even on the 26th of November, largely surpassed by all the measures that are introduced day by day, desired and imposed through the media, when countries that have greater respect for their Constitution, which is not written (as in the case of the United Kingdom), are abolishing the few restrictions they had. In addition to this, the Ministers who lie: Minister Hope lies here in this House about his interest in blocking the World Health Organization's investigation; Minister Lamorgese lies in the Commission, saying that it is not true that policemen are suspended from their salaries, even if they are absent or pregnant. Someone said that with the super green pass (pardon, just the green pass) you have the certainty to be among people who are infected, who do not infect. Added to this is the systematic, continued and aggravated failure to answer all questions on all Covid issues. I have just presented one now about the fact that, from both the United Kingdom and Denmark (the one in Denmark which is particularly important, because it is based on the data of the entire population, and the data of the United Kingdom based on the official data of the health agency of that country), it appears that vaccines, after a certain period, have a negative effect. Here is a doctor, whom I thank for being present as a representative of the Government (is unusual the presence of a representative of the Government in a session like this): "negative effectiveness" should make the hands of those who are going to vote on further obligations of this type tremble. I ask the government to remember that there is a Constitution, that there is a Parliament and that there is the health of the citizens in the middle. You can't joke, you can't force yourself.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u11	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-392.ana.u12	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 11.19 a.m.)
