ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Tourism, the Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion and the Minister for Justice will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Croatti has the right to explain the question 3-03246 on measures to support tourism businesses, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u4	Minister, the energy crisis that is dramatically affecting Europe's economy is also very strong within our country, both in families and in the entire national business sector, especially in tourism. In particular, the tourism sector after two years of pandemics is extremely struggling and paying a very salty bill. Businesses have managed to survive in this period, but they are now faced with a great economic fragility, also having to face the impact of expensive energy, a hard blow to all these entrepreneurs who looked with hope at the post-pandemic. We learn that today companies linked to tourism as accommodation, catering, amusement parks, shops, tourist buses, are considering whether to throw in the towel or if to continue in this very difficult moment, especially compared to European competitors who have a dear energy very different from that of our country. These are data relating to the energy of Confcommercio-Nomisma, which tell us that our tertiary companies pay almost double in bills compared to other countries. This data says that, on average, our 30,000 hotels pay an electric bill of 49,000 euros, which will rise to 79,000. The gas will go from 10,000 to 20,000 euros. For the 140,000 bars of our country the electricity bill will go from 4,000 to 7000 euros and that of the gas from 5,000 to 10,000 euros; while for the 200,000 restaurants of our country the electric bill will go from 7,000 to 12,000 euros and that of the gas, on average, from 11,000 to 19,000 euros. The government has already put in place important actions to support this tourism sector, but now faces very strong increases in the face of a season that is coming. Therefore, further aid is needed, especially because, in addition to the bills, there is also the increase in inflation, the increase in raw material costs, the pandemic, the uncertainty of international markets, which reduce consumption and also the possibility of organizing holidays. So, Minister, I ask you how your Ministry intends to address this difficult beginning of 2022 and the aforementioned criticalities to support the tourism companies of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Tourism, Mr Garavaglia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u5	Mr President, first of all I wanted to thank Senator Croatti and also Senator Ripamonti, because aid is important, but many times reforms also help the sector. I know that the long-standing issue of tourist guides will soon be closed and, for this reason, I wanted to thank the two senators who are carrying out this important reform, which will give many Italians and Italians the opportunity to work in this sector. That being said, we have taken a number of measures, in the so-called aid decree and in the so-called price-cutting decree, which go in the direction of aid. More will then be done, because we know that the matter is not closed. I'm just gonna give a few examples to show you what you're doing. As for my Dicastery, the Ministry of Tourism, there has been an increase in the single national tourism fund of EUR 105 million. Basically, we have exhausted the current budget of the Ministry of Tourism, in the sense that we are trying to give all possible aid now. It is useless, in fact, to give resources in October. We need resources now to help the sector. A few examples: the contributory exemption; it was continued with the integration fund, which is no longer called the Covid-19 cash register. It is the new regime, but it has been made at no cost to operators. There was a specific intervention for travel agencies and tour operators, with 5 months of decontribution. They will not pay the part of the labour cost related to the contribution. A measure that goes from the right perspective, because it contains the message: keep jobs, give you a relief, keep working and keep employment. In our opinion, this is the right way to help a particularly difficult sector. There are also specific interventions for accommodation facilities: the tax credit for those who are renting and an Imu discount for those who own the walls; the extension of the thermal bonus, which has had an important success and therefore will be extended until June 30, to allow to exhaust all resources to budget. We must never leave the allocated resources unused: this is the worst thing we can do. Doing debt and not using resources is the worst thing you can do at this time. Then specific interventions: from theme parks, with 20 million euros to aquariums and other structures, and 40 million euros for the event and wedding sector. More generally, the topic that will engage us in the coming months is that of energy. We all know that this terrible war, unleashed by Putin in such an unreasonable way, is causing an important increase in the cost of energy. Yesterday the Council of Ministers launched the DEF, with the target of half a point of GDP (9 billion still) to support the economy, businesses and households during this period of difficulty. It is clear that the tourism sector will receive an important part of these resources, because that is what mathematics says. The increase in the cost of energy affects those who consume more energy and therefore, if we are to help the energy companies, the tourism sector (we think about catering, but also the reception) is mathematically - alas - one of the sectors most affected by this increase in costs. Therefore, these additional resources will mathematically provide important aid to the tourism sector. But it's not over. It will be a hard challenge to complete this bridge towards the definitive restart, but let us look to the future with serenity. From 1 May we will finally have the same rules as all the other countries and we will therefore be able to play on an equal footing. Since our country is the most beautiful in the world - and everyone knows it - it is the good time that we win the challenge. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Croatti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u6	Mr President, Minister, the actions taken are important. The sector was hit hard by the pandemic and was expected to start again in summer 2022, while we are faced with difficulties such as war and energy increases. The blockade of tourist flows from the East - and above all from Russia - and the high energy (especially the expensive petrol with regard to tourist buses, which bear double costs) are phenomena that must absolutely be observed. The increase in the cost of the shopping cart and fuel could make families think of sacrificing holidays. During the pandemic, however, we understood how good travel and holidays are for the head, but especially for the hearts of people. Tourism is a driving sector in our country and the 13 percent figure can only improve. It must be made clear to President Draghi that, in this situation, the tax credit (a mechanism that we used for the superbonus and that it worked a lot, saving the economy) can be used - and we are discussing it - for the energy companies and also for the tourism companies, as these entrepreneurs really need it. Another issue that we often refer to is the budgetary deviation, which serves to help entrepreneurs who are going through a very difficult phase and need the assistance of our Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u7	Senator Magorno has the right to explain the question 3-03245 on safeguarding the share of PNRR investment in the South for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u8	Mr President of the Senate, members of the Government, Mrs Minister, fellow senators, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the main instrument at our disposal to counter the economic and social effects of the pandemic, within the framework of the Next Generation EU initiative, is developing around three strategic axes shared at European level: digitisation and innovation, ecological transition, social inclusion. Our PNRR provides for investments and reforms associated with European resources of EUR 191.5 billion, plus EUR 30.6 billion from the National Complementary Fund, for a total of EUR 222.1 billion. The 40% clause introduced in the conversion of Decree-Law No 77 provides that the central administrations involved in the implementation of the PNRR shall ensure that at least 40% of the resources allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno, regardless of the financial source of origin, are allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno. Compliance with this objective is monitored by the Cohesion Policy Department. Given that the resources allocated to the Mezzogiorno amount to 86 billion, which is 40% of the total figure that can be allocated territorially, in line with the minimum 40% fixed by the Government, the risk that the southern administrations do not present in good time adequate projects to absorb 40% of the resources is more than real. There is also a real danger that, in the absence of a mechanism to safeguard the quota for the South, the objective of territorial cohesion will be shattered. The Cohesion Policy Department calculated that, out of €7.1 billion of resources reserved for the Mezzogiorno, only €2.5 billion (corresponding to seven procedures) was planned to safeguard the South's share of resources not allocated due to a shortage of eligible applications, or by shifting resources to the individual regions of the Mezzogiorno with larger projects or by opening a new competition with the resources always advanced with a clause of 40%. For €1.4 billion (corresponding to six procedures) the flow of rankings has been foreseen regardless of territorial location, while for €3.2 billion (referenced to 15 procedures) there has been no way to safeguard unallocated resources. Finally, considering the need for the Ministry for the South and territorial cohesion to introduce an armored mechanism to safeguard the quota of the South, it is necessary to know whether the Minister, in view of the structural weaknesses of the area and the absolute exceptionality of the procedures provided for by the PNRR, does not consider it necessary to introduce in all the calls, if not provided, a specific safeguard clause of the South quota on resources not allocated due to the lack of eligible applications, shifting, for example, the same resources to the individual regions of the Mezzogiorno with greater projects, in order to make the financing available to the same territories through successive and more effective procedures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u9	Mr President, first of all, I would like to make a few general comments and then reply to the comments on the provision of a specific safeguard clause. As the honourable Member knows, since the first day, the Government has worked to clarify, quantify and make visible the southern part of the PNRR of the Complementary Plan, first through a reconnaissance of the individual interventions planned, then by regulating the mechanisms for protecting this quota. Thanks to this work, we have decided to reserve at least 40% of the territorially allocateable interventions to the South by providing for safeguard mechanisms. In particular, I recall that it is the same law that provides for the Department of Cohesion Policy to verify compliance with the minimum target of 40% and, if necessary, submit any cases of deviation to the steering booth that takes the necessary corrective and compensatory measures. However, it is clear that this latter ex post safeguard mechanism would intervene in a pathological phase, that of non-respect of 40%, which is everyone's interest and duty to prevent. In this spirit, in agreement with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the PNRR's steering booth, the Cohesion Department has undertaken an ex ante monitoring action that helps us to intervene since the preparation of calls for territorial allocation of the Plan's resources. Thanks to this monitoring we now have an in-depth knowledge of the territorial consequences of the entire plan. We know that we are also able to respect and exceed 40%, because the current estimate is 40.8%, or more than 86 billion of the total of 211 billion territorializable. We know, however, also the areas of criticality on which we must intervene. It has been, the one promoted at my request by the Department of Cohesion, an operation of transparency and truth that serves us and that will serve above all over the next few years, dedicated to the material implementation of the Plan. It was also an awareness-raising exercise by administrations on the subject of respect for the South quota. For example, in the last calls of the Ministry of Education the territorial division was based on an in-depth analysis of the needs of different territories that led to a allocation of resources to the Southern regions overall of well over 40% (we exceeded 50%). In addition, these notices provided for an explicit intra-South safeguard clause such as that mentioned by the honourable Member. The resources that may not be absorbed on a regional basis will be devoted to the interventions of the other Regions of the Mezzogiorno and we are inviting and urging the different administrations with PNRR interventions to explain in their interventions to ban safeguard clauses such as this. In all the interventions of the Plan, however, it is clear that the explicit application of this intra-South clause may not be sufficient where the entire design capacity of the regional authorities of the Mezzogiorno is less than the entire South share of resources available for a given intervention. For this reason, my offices are working to develop further safeguard mechanisms that allow the retention of resources which may not be spent in the territories to which they are normally intended. Of course downstream will be the theme, no less relevant, of the ability of the southern administrations to use these resources concretely, realizing the interventions in the given times and modalities. For this reason, however, Decree-Law No 77 of 31 May 2021 provided for the possible activation of substitute powers by the Government and we will be vigilant to ensure that this powerful instrument is used promptly and effectively as soon as the first signs of inability or non-compliance are manifested. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Magorno has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, we are pleased with the work being done for the PNRR in relation to the quota for the Mezzogiorno. We are satisfied in general for the work you do on the territories, for the comparison you have with the Regions and with the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI). I invite you because, speaking as mayor too, we are concerned that we will not succeed. It is not the last boat, but certainly for the Mezzogiorno of Italy and especially for the peripheral territories the PNRR is an important occasion. I would ask you then to make even greater use of the comparison with the ANCI of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, involving its presidents. We need to express even more our opinion and, above all, our concerns, highlighting the difficulties encountered by the territories and, above all, the municipalities of the Mezzogiorno of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u11	Senator Nugnes has the right to explain question 3-03242 on the effects on the Mezzogiorno of the revision of regional competences for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, you know perfectly well that Minister Gelmini has brought the issue of differentiated regionalism back to the government table. In recent years, for this request, a strong debate has opened in the country that has highlighted many contradictions, on the very desirability of further regional autonomy, on how to involve local authorities and the population, on the role of Parliament itself, on how this law can be amended and on the extent of the issues to be attributed to the implementation of article 116, third paragraph, which risks undermining the respect of the principle of unitity of the nation (Article 5 of the Constitution), the territorial rebalancing and subsidiarity between North and South (Article 3 of the Constitution) and the same Mission 5 of the PNRR, inclusion and cohesion, aimed above all at the rebalancing of the territory and the development of the Mezzogiorno and the internal areas. We allow ourselves to ask you, as Minister of the South, if you do not feel that you can promote a constitutional reform of Title V, in the light of these twenty-two years since the previous constitutional reform, which has highlighted all the difficulties and disharmonies found by several parts of the country, between the fundamental principles of the first part of the Constitution and Title V, as it has been reformed. Or, given the current situation, namely the fact that we are at the end of the legislature, that we have been subjected for three years to a continuous state of emergency due to the Covid, the definition of the PNRR, the climate emergency and now to the war in Ukraine and also to inflation, which in the eurozone has reached 7.5 percent, if it does not at least intend to take action to postpone this definition of the bill in the hope of being able to promote the transparency and participation of Parliament, of the territorial authorities and of all citizenship. If we do not have to achieve this, how can we strive for the first definition of the essential levels of performance (LEP) of Law No 42 of 2009 in order to guarantee all the services and services necessary for a homogeneous and widespread well-being of the country throughout the national territory, in compliance with Articles 3 and 5 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u13	The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u14	Mr President, with regard to the question raised by the honourable Member, as you know, the Government's intention, which was last confirmed in the DEF, is to submit a draft law, linked to the budget law for 2022, which provides a framework for granting autonomy to those regions which should request it. I say now, however, that the subject will have to be dealt with with with maximum sharing at all institutional levels and with adequate and effective ways of involving the Regions - all the Regions - and Parliament, to which of course it will be the prerogative of the effective approval of the norm. The clearly complex picture is linked, in my opinion, to the occurrence of some very precise conditions: a single framework that holds together the equal rights of all Italian citizens, regardless of birth certificates or residence certificates; the consequent definition of LEPs and standard requirements; the archiving of the principle of historical expenditure, as well as immediate equalisation actions associated with the obvious respect for budgetary balances. In particular, the definition of the essential levels of performance, as a constitutional obligation, is, in my view, a sine qua non for the implementation of autonomy, so that the exploitation of the different capacities of government can produce concrete results and benefits for the most virtuous regions that intend to make use of different forms of autonomy, but at the same time fully guarantee the principle of equality of citizens, without distinction or discrimination of residence. It is in this direction that I am working personally. Since 2021 the Government has finally taken a positive path, destined to consolidate: the implementation of the LEP kindergartens, which, in parallel to the construction of new structures financed with the PNRR, will allow from 2026 to all the municipalities to be able to offer the service to at least 33% of the children resident, represents a small great positive revolution, but also a modus operandi that we intend to replicate for other essential functions. The same applies to the other two LEPs introduced: LEP social workers and LEP school transport of students with disabilities. The path that we intend to pursue with force, since the next budget law, shows that the conciliation between LEP and differentiated autonomy is an unbreakable constitutional provision, is an effort consistent with an advanced and virtuous vision of subsidiarity and federalism solidarity, but it is also a fully achievable mission and I would say a categorical imperative for those who want to ensure respect for the principle of equality of all citizens, regardless of the place of residence or the place of birth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Nugnes has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u15	Madam Minister, thank you and I do not doubt your commitment, but I am still very concerned. If the idea of historical spending were not to be swept away, if all the LEPs were not to be defined first, I believe that the differentiated autonomy of the South will be a disaster not only for the South, but for the whole country. We are not talking about a hypothesis of decentralisation, but about a whole reorganization of the country, with consequences for the whole of the Mezzogiorno. The State-Regions Conference itself risks being frustrated in its prerogatives, as Parliament risks being emptied into its centrality and its essential function. We are faced with an initiative that risks transforming citizens' rights into assets available depending on income, providing for the allocation of resources based on the territorial fiscal capacity within the regions where they were born. Dividing regions by school, health, environment, security, cultural heritage will make the country divided. So, I still ask you, Minister, to be the subject of a different kind of proposal, at least for this end of the legislature. I don't think there's the time or the conditions to actually achieve a result that keeps us all together and helps the whole country to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u16	Senator Boccardi has the right to explain the question 3-03243 on the state of implementation of the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund projects, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u17	Madam Minister, today I want to focus on a long-standing issue that historically concerns our country: the slow growth of a part of the country called the Mezzogiorno of Italy. To this end, also in accordance with Article 119 of the Constitution, the Development and Cohesion Fund was established in 2011, which allocates 80% of the resources to the Mezzogiorno to reduce regional disparities and, above all, to support economic development and growth. Given the limited commitment of the resources of the period 2014-2018, Article 44 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2019 intended to simplify the management procedures of the Fund, aimed at speeding up the implementation of the interventions. Subsequent regulatory measures have provided that interventions for which no legally binding obligations are laid down, or work is not awarded by 31 December 2021, may be reprogrammed by the CIPESS. This provision also provides for the Minister for the South to submit a report to the CIPESS by 30 March each year. In this context, as this date dates and approximates the deadline for the expiry of legally binding obligations of 31 December 2022, it is asked whether you, Minister, consider to provide an overall assessment of the state of implementation of the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund, with particular regard to the risk area linked to the non-achievement of the legal obligations binding on 31 December 2022; and whether you intend to outline with your offices and the General Accounting Office of the State a path of shared actions aimed at reducing the risk due to the non-achievement of the legal obligation binding on their expiry, in order to avoid the definancing of interventions and resources, which would affect - as we know - the weaker part of the country, namely the Mezzogiorno of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u18	The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u19	Mr President, as you are certainly aware, at the next CIPESS meeting in mid-April, we will present the first annual report on the progress of the development and cohesion plans (CFP) interventions in the last programming of the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund and on the figures for 31 December 2021. For these Plans there is a legal obligation to assume the so-called legally binding obligations at 31 December 2022, whose non-compliance results in the withdrawal of the allocated resources, as the honourable Member recalled. The report that we will present will contain a punctual evaluation of the state of implementation of the various interventions of the SGPs of Regions and central administrations, of those for which we anticipate the respect of the expiration of the end of December for the assumption of the legally binding bonds and those at greater risk of forfeiture of the funds. Immediately after the CIPESS session, we will of course make the punctual data public, but from the analyses we have it is already clear that the risk of definancing is about €12.8 billion. Another €8.5 billion, currently unmonitorable, should be mentioned as it is associated with projects not included by the administrations in the national monitoring system. This is a large amount of planned resources, the possible withdrawal of which would be a huge opportunity for the prospects for the development and cohesion of the Mezzogiorno, the internal areas and all the territories to which the objectives of the Development and Cohesion Fund are addressed. It is therefore our duty to safeguard these resources and speed up their investment for the benefit of all citizens, and we are working in this direction. This situation, which we naturally inherit from the past, is already the subject of an urgent process of verification by my offices through comparison with the authorities responsible for the SGPs and with the General Accounting of the State. In addition, even before the formalisation of the report at the CIPESS, I started a deepening with the Ministry of Economy and Finance to identify a new complex regulatory and administrative path, incardinated in the CIPESS, that allows on the one hand to accelerate the implementation of the more mature interventions, and on the other to avoid both the revocation of the resources, and a simple extension of the law that would move only a few months the problem, without solving it, and would be a clear reward for inefficiency. The idea is therefore to evaluate on time the interventions and the state of progress in which they are located, identifying those that are appropriate to confirm and, however, establishing new time programmes of financial progress on the model of the PNRR and the supplementary fund. If we have planned to build a road, a sewer or a marina, we must do so in clear and defined times and ways. Alongside this, together with the relevant administrations, we intend to identify those FSC 2014-2020 resources that are at greater risk of definancing that deserve to be combined into different, more strategic and faster actions that can be implemented, for example by using part of them as additional funds for PNRR interventions, obviously respecting their 80% destination to the Mezzogiorno. I have declined only some of the lines of action on which we are moving, in the awareness, shared within the Government, of the need to cope with a situation of primary importance, to be faced with a sense of responsibility and with maximum attention, also in order not to start the new programming cycle 2021-2027 with unresolved nodes of the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u20	Senator Boccardi has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitments and, above all, for the clear presentation she has made on a very important subject and which - I would like to stress - is of even greater importance, given the international crisis that we are all experiencing and because of which our country, and especially the Mezzogiorno, is in danger of losing a perspective of development, something that we cannot afford. I would also like to thank the Minister for her constant commitment to this area of the country and above all for the responsible action on her part, the Government and the administrations called to carry out the actions that must be done. Establishing certain times and precise responsibilities pushes each of us to do our utmost not to lose resources and create opportunities for development. Allow me to make a personal point. Today as an entrepreneur I am very satisfied, as well as as as a senator, because I finally hear in this House not about derogations, but about specific commitments in favour of development, especially of our South. I hope that all this will be understood and put into practice by the Regions that until now - alas - unfortunately have not shone in the matter of commitment and use of resources. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u22	Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-03251 on the implementation of the new prison in Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, the 2010 Prison Plan provided for the construction of the new prison facility in Bolzano with 250 seats, with an initial allocation of EUR 25 million. On the basis of the agreement concluded with the commissioner delegated to the emergency prisons, the Autonomous Province of Bolzano would have assumed the costs of realization and management on the basis of the competition for the rebalancing of public finance, pursuant to the Milan Agreement of 2009. At the same time, the State also committed itself to surrender to the Province the old prison structure, once the new one entered into operation. The Province has therefore launched a call at European level according to the rules on public-private partnerships concerning the design, implementation and management of the work. In addition to the payment of the public contribution for the investment, this notice also provided for a fee of availability and a fee of services. After completion of the tender, the procedure was suspended until clarification on the financing of the project financing operation wanted by the Ministry of Justice as a pilot project in prison building. To date, the Province has spent over 17 million euros fully reimbursed by the MEF through the mechanism of the Milan agreement. With the final award and conclusion of the contract, however, it will have to bear the remaining charges to the extent of more than 100 million euros over sixteen years, for which it is necessary that the same accounting mechanism applies. If this did not happen, there would be serious financial consequences for the Province. I therefore ask you to know whether you want to definitively ascertain the application of the mechanism of disappearance provided for by the Milan Agreement and the payments to be paid by the Province of Bolzano for more than € 7.5 million per year, since they would correspond to reductions in expenditure for the Ministry of Justice and that the new penitentiary constitutes public work of the State, realized with funds paid by the Province on behalf of the State. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u24	Mr President, Senator Unterberger, it is true that the construction of the new penitentiary in Bolzano from 250 seats dates back to the old prison plan of 2010. Important steps have been taken, including the award of the tender. There is now a stalemate and the procedure is suspended precisely for the necessary clarification on the financing of the public-private partnership operation. As already mentioned, about 17 million were currently spent on the construction of the new penitentiary, fully reimbursed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. It should be noted that the rules of the public contract code provide that the public administration in these contracts must pay the concessionaire periodic fees for the availability of the goods, including ordinary and extraordinary maintenance, and fees for the services offered (cleaning, canteen, laundry, etc.). At the end of the concessionary period, the concessionaire must deliver to the public administration the set in perfect state of maintenance. In the present case, the annual fee is approximately 7.5 million, including VAT, and consists of one part for the availability of the structure and another part for the services offered to cover the financing costs. With specific reference to the assessment by the State of the opportunity to bear all the additional charges relating also to the fees to be paid to the concessionaire, a thorough investigation and an in-depth technical assessment are still under way, linked to the comparison between current and future expenses and also concerning the need, represented by the general direction of the prisoners and the treatment of the department of the penitentiary administration, to create a new institute that corresponds to the prison of the Constitution, as designed by the commission for the penitentiary architecture. From this point of view, it must be noted that the surveillance court in Bolzano, on 6 October 2021, represented the absolute need to have a new prison structure in the city and, in blackberries, to carry out numerous interventions in the current prison, the cost of which is around 5 million euros, to which the costs of ordinary operation must be added. If it were decided to build the new penitentiary institute, abandoning the road of the public-private partnership, it should proceed to the transfer of ownership of the acquired soils from the Province of Bolzano to the state property and then to find the necessary funds and entrust to the Ministry for sustainable infrastructure and mobility the design and construction of the new penitentiary institute, greatly lengthening the time of realization and, in the latter case, the expense would be around 72 million euros. These are the elements to the current assessment of the investigation to which I referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u25	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u26	Mr President, Mrs Ministro, I hope that we will be able to clarify quickly, because we in South Tyrol have been talking for years about the fact that this prison is no longer adequate and is overcrowded and that neither the prisoners nor the prison police can live there. Therefore, there really is an urgent need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u27	Senator Balboni has the right to explain the question 3-03248 on the appointment of the new head of the department of the penitentiary administration, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u28	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know very well, the prison police are working in very extreme conditions. Among other things, today some prison police unions have called for a demonstration under the Ministry of Justice, for next Wednesday, April 13, to ask for measures against them. Unfortunately, as you know, the prison police are subject to continuous assaults, which no longer count, and the decision to close judicial psychiatric hospitals (OPG) and to transfer prisoners with psychiatric problems to ordinary departments, because the residences for the execution of security measures (REMS) are all beyond to come, has aggravated the situation further. Moreover, the system of open cells, with the so-called dynamic supervision, has unfortunately handed over to organised crime the control of many prisons, because the staff available to supervise is insufficient, in the face of prisoners who can move freely inside the prison all day long. There are shortages of staff, but above all the average age is increasingly advanced, so many prison police officers struggle to cope with these very heavy tasks. As you know, Minister, doctors in prisons are no longer there, because health care has been transferred to ASL. Many prison police officers no longer know what to do, because now, systematically, the prisoners denounce them for torture, because we have a case of torture so elastic, wide and undifferentiated, so it can be in everything, even psychological suffering, let alone in prison. In such a situation, you have appointed the new head of the department of the penitentiary administration (DAP), raising the protests of the unions, but also even within the Supreme Council of the judiciary (CSM), because undoubtedly the profile of the new head of the DAP is more suitable for the guarantor of the prisoners than the head of the penitentiary police. It is a divisive appointment, unfortunately I have already mentioned this and you have answered me by inviting me to evaluate it on the ground, but, Minister, such an appointment should be made with an ex ante judgment and not by referring to an ex post evaluation. Therefore, from this point of view, I would ask you to know on the basis of which criteria you have made this appointment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u29	Mr President, Senator Balboni, we have already had a chance to discuss this issue elsewhere. In order to respond adequately to your question, leaving aside the analysis of the prison situation, which you represent and which would deserve much further study elsewhere, it is necessary to start from the textual reading of the legislation in force, which concerns the appointment of the head of the DAP, which is Article 30, paragraph 2, of Law n. 395 of 1990, subsequently amended, of which I read: "The Department of the penitentiary administration is responsible the head of the Department of the penitentiary administration, chosen from among the magistrates of Cassation with superior managerial functions or among the general managers of equal qualifications, appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, after deliberation of the Council of Ministers, on proposal of the Minister of grace and justice." With regard to the necessary qualifications, the rule is clear: the choice must be made between the magistrates of Cassation with superior managerial functions, or between the general management of the penitentiary administration. In this question, reference was made to the possibility of choosing between the files of the Prison Police Corps, but this is not allowed by the current legislation. With regard to the procedure, the Minister of Justice makes a proposal, following a resolution of the Council of Ministers and a final examination of the President of the Republic, since the act of appointment takes the form of the decree of the President of the Republic (DPR). On 17 March last, in the Council of Ministers (which, I repeat, is the body responsible for deciding on the appointment), the documentation necessary to assess the professionalism of Dr. Renoldi and the relevance of his previous experience with respect to the task to be carried out was distributed to all. The documentation showed in particular his long experience (ten years) as a magistrate of surveillance in Sardinia, the service provided to the Ministry to deal with the emergency of the prison overcrowding at the time of the condemnation of Italy by the European Court of Human Rights in the Torreggiani case (2013), the functions held in the last six years at the first criminal section of the Court of Cassation, which deals, ratione materiae, with the execution of the penalty also for serious crimes, including organized crime. The Council of Ministers decided unanimously. On 22 March the President of the Republic signed the act of appointment. As for relations with the trade unions, to which you referred, it is also made fully visible by the press agencies that Dr. Renoldi has already initiated a broad and fruitful dialogue with all the trade union acronyms, even on occasions of recent public events (conferences organized by the trade unions themselves). In the context of this dialogue - as has also been done in the past - all the problems of the serious working conditions of the prison police, of which I am fully aware and which, among other things, have led us in the budget law, for the first time, to allocate adequate amounts to provide a psychological support service to its agents well aware that the past years have been particularly burdensome for them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u30	I can't say I'm satisfied, Minister. I'm sorry. The reference to the opportunity to appoint the head of the DAP within the prison police force was obviously a reference de iure condensing. I was interested in your opinion; you didn't give it to me, but I guess. I take note of the appointment of Dr. Renoldi, but I have never questioned the professional qualities and the curriculum. However, he certainly was not the only one to have these qualities. Dr. Renoldi's choice, as you know, has provoked opposition within the MSC itself. Dr Di Matteo said he was opposed to this appointment, because Dr Renoldi - I quote - "delegitized with contemptuous words people and institutions that deserved respect", referring - as you know - to the criticisms directed by Dr Renoldi to the militant anti-mafia, perched, according to Dr Renoldi, in the cult of martyrs. Dr. Renoldi expressed opposition to Articles 41-a, concerning the hard prison regime for mobsters, and 4-a of the Law on penitentiary law. He defined the principle of certainty of punishment as "old talk show payouts " and the result of "obtuse justiceism" (in parentheses). Dr. Salvatore Borsellino replied to the press that Renoldi at the DAP was the last promissory note of the State-Mafia negotiation. Well, Madam Minister, Caesar's wife must not only be honest, she must also appear above suspicion. In this case, I think that, with this appointment, you made an unnecessary divisive choice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u31	Senator Mirabelli has the right to explain the question 3-03247 on prison benefits and communications between prisoners and families, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, we know the situation in Italian prisons, which is still difficult, marked by often inadequate structures and worrying overcrowding. To this in the last two years has been added the Covid, which has created further inconveniences. Prisons have been closed, there have been no talks, all training and work experiences have been closed due to obvious restrictions due to the pandemic. There have been great difficulties, which have served the prisoners and even those in prison who work. I believe that the idea of continuing to oppose prison police officers is wrong. I believe that we have a duty to improve prison conditions in the interests of everyone. Mrs. Minister, knowing your sensitivity, confirmed for us by the recent choices you made on the department of the penitentiary administration, we ask you to reason on what to do after the Covid in Italian prisons, knowing that it is possible to intervene to reduce overcrowding and improve, even in the light of the new experiences that the pandemic has brought us, making some of them permanent. We have taken steps, such as house arrests and the possibility for those who worked outside not to go back to sleep in prison, which we extended until December 2022. I believe that these measures must be confirmed and made permanent, as well as the innovations that the Covid has brought us: to communicate we have used Skype and introduced telematic networks in prisons. This is a great opportunity for meetings and training. Again, we believe that we must compensate those who for two years with Covid could not do anything in prison and suffered this situation. We therefore ask you to take a measure for early release, providing for a higher penalty discount than that already laid down by law. Finally, it is time to invest more on training and work, which are the points needed to implement the Constitution, as you have taught us over the last few months to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u33	The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u34	Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Mirabelli, who has touched on a number of issues, who all move from a point of view that I cannot fail to take up and make a strong remark. The prison was particularly marked by these two years of pandemics: they were very hard, of great tensions, usurping for those in prison who work and serve and more grievous for prisoners, because of the suspension of talks and visits of family members, transfers and all activities. During this two-year period, interventions have therefore been introduced concerning the prison camp, as mentioned by the interrogating senators, and the possibility of granting extraordinary premium licences for semi-liberals, special premium permits for prisoners already admitted to outside work and deflagrant mechanisms designed already during the first pandemic wave, such as access to the measure of home detention with an electronic bracelet. Of course, these are measures granted individually to the outcome of the necessary scrutiny of the judiciary, to which I renew my thanks for the work carried out, especially in recent years, which must assess on a case-by-case basis the deservingness of the measure and the absence of social danger. Senator Mirabelli is right when he stresses the need to overcome the conflicts between the reasons of the police and those of the prisoners, those of the guarantees and those of security. Better prison conditions benefit everyone, indisputably. These benefits adopted during the pandemic were confirmed until December 31, 2022, with Decree-Law No 228 of 2021, then converted. So, however, they go beyond the duration of the state of emergency, which, as you know, ended on 31 March last. These measures have proved good and can therefore be useful to contain the continuing problem of overcrowding, which is still the most alarming in Italy. I would like to point out to you that, precisely today, two authoritative voices have brought attention to the issue of overcrowding: one is public, that of the President of the Constitutional Court, Giuliano Amato, who touched on this issue in the press conference at the Court's annual report. Another voice: this morning I received the President of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and of Inhuman or Degrading Treatments or Penalty of the Council of Europe, Alan Mitchell, who insisted, as a first observation on the situation of Italian prisons, that he is monitoring during his visits, precisely on the subject of overcrowding. The possibility of intervening on early release, for prisoners who, in the last two years, have given full evidence of participation in the work of re-education, is also welcome and should be adequately considered, also in the light of the particularly burdensome conditions they have undergone in recent years. Similarly, telematic communications have given a great relief during this period, allowing to maintain relations with family members and to carry out some activities even during the pandemic period. Therefore, these are those innovations that it is good to maintain, not in place of the activities and talks in presence, but at their side. These are positive experiments, which can well be put to the system even after the pandemic emergency has stopped.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u35	Senator Cirinna may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his words and for basically accepting the reasons for our question. That grieving humanity has been much more grieving than the citizens outside the prison in these two years of pandemics. I also think of all the families, children, wives and mothers of the people in prison. That grieving humanity needs to be heard, workers, inmates and their families. It takes a shot of greater humanity and perhaps the acceptance, in some way, of the possibility of working on the terms related to the famous forty-five days applicable to deserving persons can be a road. A further way can be a strong monitoring that the Ministry can do on the supervisory courts in relation to the application of Law No 199 of 2010. That is a law, not a special measure, which provides that, under one year and eight months of detention, you are still at home. We have also tabled a further question on this, but we are fully satisfied with your words.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u37	Senator Pillon has the right to explain the question 3-03241 on the supply of electric impulse guns for prison police officers, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u38	Minister, starting in 2018, the Minister for the Interior, Matteo Salvini, had given impetus to the experimentation for the use, by law enforcement, of electric impulse guns, the so-called tasers, considering them an important support for those who work every day to guarantee security and public order. With great satisfaction, the commitment has been maintained and the police have been equipped with electrical devices: almost 5,000 tasers have been distributed throughout the national territory. Unfortunately, however, prison police officers have not been included in the supply, who suffer daily assaults from inmates inside prison facilities. Already with a previous act of inspection union, at the first signature of Senator Stefani, the parliamentarians of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione have exposed the discomfort denounced by the prison police unions regarding the aggressions suffered by the agents in the performance of their work and by the prisoners for good. It is only thanks to the high professionalism and the high sense of duty if the prison agents manage to bring the order back inside the prison structures and avoid worse consequences to people or things. Prison police officers are too often victims of aggression and it is essential for their safety that they be guaranteed appropriate safeguards and instruments. To date, prison police officers are not expecting the Taser's budget, but it would be important to re-evaluate this decision. It is therefore asked to know whether the Minister in address does not consider it appropriate to equip prison police personnel with suitable tools to defend themselves from internal aggressions to prison structures and to defend other prisoners, such as electric bollards, even if only and exclusively in cases where they are forced to face attacks on the person. Let me add that, often visiting prisons, we are faced with complaints from prison police officers, who claim that they simply have their hands to deal with possible aggressions. The alternative is between the use of your hands and the use of lethal force consisting of the firearms supplied. Perhaps an intermediate instrument, which safeguards the life of the attacker, in addition to that of the attackers, could be useful for this purpose. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u39	Mr President, Senator Pillon, we have already pointed out several times during the sitting, but also on another previous occasion in the Chamber of Deputies, the situation of difficulty, tension, fear and particular sensitivity that has been created in recent years, especially in prisons, for reasons which can be guessed. For this reason, in the intercourse with prison police officers and their unions a series of activities have already been put in place to strengthen the security tools, including, even at the request of the unions, the strengthening of the instruments of video surveillance and bodycam already operating, for which maximum diffusion in all Italian institutions is being activated the administration. Another particularly careful effort has been made by the administration in this last year to strengthen the initial and continuing training of staff. You, Senator Pillon, referred to their professionalism. This is a very important tool and training is particularly important for managing critical events and violent agitations. Those who serve in prison know well that the security conditions are built day by day with the authoritative management of the various critical issues that come to manifest themselves. With regard to the possible trial also for the prison police, it is true what you said, namely that the prison police were not included in the scope of experimentation of the so-called electroshock weapon, weapons with electrical impulses, as they are called in Decree-Law No 119 of 2014. Taser is a brand, but also the common way by which they are now identified. It should be emphasized that, even in the trials of the other police bodies, they are considered weapons to all intents and, as such, they must comply with the same rules and the same limitations as for the use of any other special weapons of department, precisely to guarantee the safety first of all of those who carry them. The Senator certainly knows that prison police officers have a weapon of order, which can never enter the sections, to protect first of all the person concerned. Weapons do not enter prison, because every weapon that enters is an element of additional danger for everyone. On the other hand, there are interventions with special armaments of department (protective helmets against riot, protective helmets and gas masks) that are used only in cases of critical events and for which it is necessary the specific authorization of the director of the structure in exceptional cases. The possible testing of tasers in prison should be part of this second group, that is, between those weapons and those instruments that are available to the department only for use in case of critical events, because it must be taken into account that ensuring security in prison is a much more delicate and much more difficult task, as also difficult is the task that the police forces outside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pillon has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u40	Minister, we are pleased with your answer, since we feel that your will is in the sense of starting or evaluating to start an experiment as a department weapon, of course with all the limitations and security that it is necessary to guarantee, precisely so that it does not become a dangerous instrument that is then turned against those who are there to protect public order. We also learn with great satisfaction of the beginning of the spread of the so-called bodycams, which are a valuable tool for our law enforcement forces to ensure security to them and also to prisoners who are often attacked by other prisoners. Thank you and I wish you well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u43	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, according to a famous phrase that someone attributes to Benjamin Disraeli, British premier at the time of Queen Victoria, others to the American Mark Twain, there are three types of lies: simple lies, brazen lies and statistics. By means of a press note dated 15 March 2022, Istat reported an extraordinary review of the data series in value of the increase in the amount of natural gas in gaseous state for the period July-December 2021, attributing the error to technical problems in the processing phase, in particular to the malfunctioning of certain control procedures and data correction that led to an underestimation of the same data. With a subsequent statement of 24 March, Istat announced that, following processes of revision of the import data in value of natural gas at gaseous state for July and December 2021, a review of GDP and debt of general government is also required. Pending the release of the corrected data, Istat reports that nominal GDP is expected to fall by 0.3-0.4 decimal points, while net debt is expected to remain unchanged. This undervalued data was €394 million in July, €552 million in August, €607 million in September, €1 billion in October, €1.5 billion in November, over €2 million in December, totaling €6.159 billion. The error was not limited to a single edition of the investigation, but was repeated six times, although it is known that in the second half of 2021 there were tensions on the prices of the international gas market. In favour of darkness, on 4 April Istat corrected GDP without any public communication, announcing the new data on its database with an increase of 4.1 billion euros in imports, a decrease in GDP of 5.8 billion euros, an increase in household spending of half a billion euros and a decrease in public administration consumption expenditure of 1.5 billion euros. What is the reason for this adjustment is not known. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking you and reminding you that in these dark and distressing times for families and workers forced to bear the sanctions for the wretched war between Russia and Ukraine, with inflation rising by 6.7 per cent in March, the power of purchase torn down, the economic crisis that after two years of pandemics has accentuated inequalities and increased poverty and social exclusion, Istat cannot be allowed, which I hope is not the transmission belt of the Dragon Government, to play with inflation data that affect the purchasing power and the living flesh of families.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-424.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 20 April, at 2 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.20 a.m.
