ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has not yet finished its examination of the amendments tabled to the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4.30 p.m. with the debate on motions for resolutions on the crisis in cinemas. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00485 by Senators Gasparri, Zanda, De Petris, Quagliariello, Di Nicola and other Senators, 1-00496 by Senator Iannone and other Senators, 1-00501 by Senator De Lucia and other Senators, and 1-00506 by Senator Saponara on the crisis in cinemas. As established by the Conference of Leaders on 29 June, the motions will be given for illustrations and for each of them the Groups will have five minutes in discussion and five minutes in explanation of vote. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u5	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are several good reasons for wanting greater protection of the film industry and cinemas by the State. It is an industrial sector that employs tens of thousands of people, but it is above all what Mussolini called the most powerful weapon, which was powerful then and is no less powerful today in transmitting, communicating and propaganda the image of Italy in the world, to strengthen the national identity and spread its Christs in its culture. It is perhaps not by chance that France, a nation known to have a high opinion of itself and a deep and enviable sense of the state, cultivates, defends and protects its own cinemas, its own cinemas, as well as the national film industry and production more than other states do and certainly more than we Italians do. It is not appropriate to wish for the assimilation of the French model in block in the Italian case, but much could be inspired by that model and much can be objectively done, while not passively bending to the blackmail of online platforms. I think it's a bluff of the big platforms that threaten to bypass the cinemas when they look at larger windows than those planned. It is a bluff and as such it must be treated: there is a colossal lobbying power to which governments have the duty - I believe - to escape, but there is a national interest that is superior to the lobbying power of the large platforms and that the government's action should be inspired, more than any other principle. The films in the French cinemas, before switching to online platforms, remain in the room from ninety to one hundred and twenty days as far as pay per view is concerned and from twelve to fifteen months as far as subscriptions are concerned: very large windows compared to those we are talking about today. In France national productions cover more than 40% of the film market, in Italy we are well below 30%. In France, thanks also to bureaucratic norms less vexatory than the Italian ones, there is one screen for every 10,000 inhabitants; in Italy one for every 15,000 inhabitants. Colleagues, if we deal with cinemas, it is because we are clear that these are social garrisons and in many cases, especially in provincial cinemas and small centres, the only cultural aggregation centres in existence. Protecting them is a way to protect sociality, to protect culture, and national image and identity, as well as to support the interests of those young people who have not yet completely folded on their smartphones. I think that, as well as reading a newspaper article or a book on paper is not the same thing as reading it on your smartphone - as well as illustrious experts have testified that we have auditioned in the Senate Education Commission - even seeing a movie on a mobile phone, iPad or smart TV is not like watching that screening in a movie room. That is why we must protect the cinemas, even for a matter of quality. Our young people are losing their taste for the quality of audio, for the quality of images; they are losing their ability to pay attention. I'm impressed to see young people watching a movie by putting their hands on the phone at least ten or twenty times. For all this, I believe it is necessary to support the cinemas, also to help and support the youngest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u6	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u7	Minister, we are debating today a motion which does not want to counter the needs and needs of cinemas to those of modern platforms, as some have feared. On the contrary, I believe that this motion wants to stress how closely the destinies of cinemas and cinemas are crossed. In the post-war period, if Italy, after a lost war, managed to become the seventh industrial power of the world, this happened also because our society was supported by a great cultural vitality, which gave it prestige on a world scale, and also made it forget the abysses of the war and of the twenty years that had preceded it. To a non-marginal extent, industrial success was also an Italian cultural success and, in particular, a success of Italian cinema: a success of Visconti, Rossellini, De Sica, Fellini, Antonioni and many other directors, actors, actresses, technicians and operators. My signature to the motion that has as first signatory Senator Gasparri has a meaning that goes beyond the invitation to the Government to promote important initiatives to protect and support the entire film sector, beginning with the importance, which I consider strategic, of cinemas. Think of books without bookstores, newspapers without newsstands, stadiums without spectators, in a world made exclusively of digital subscriptions and television. Only if we are able to keep living books and paper newspapers and, with them, bookshops and newsstands, will we be able to keep up the bar of literature and information, which have a vital need to be present not only on new computer media, but also on bookshops and newsstands. Similarly, the relationship between cinema and cinema works. The rooms are the place where the films are best enjoyed, selected and judged. Without the big screen of the cinemas it would be much more difficult to produce the masterpieces that made Italian cinema and cinema great in a particular way. Think of the Cannes and Venice Festivals with the films presented on the small screen and not in the big cinemas: it is impossible even to imagine. This motion calls on the Government not only to support cinemas, which are the weak link of this chain, but also to the cinema industry itself. And he does so in the knowledge that only with a great blow of cultural renegade, that even Italian cinema is called to do, our country, as in the post-war period, will be able to overcome the very serious economic crisis that is going through and that is slowly eroding also our confidence in the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u8	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when it comes to crisis (and, therefore, the protection of cinemas), we in the Lega Group believe that it is essential to analyse the phenomenon in its entirety and not just to fossilise ourselves on the need to help the operators of the sector, which is certainly important and necessary, but which must be included in a broader context. We have therefore decided to concentrate mainly on three points which I would like to explain to this House. If, on the one hand, we have the film and audiovisual production sector that, despite the pandemic crisis, and also thanks to the response of the State, is experiencing a moment of particular growth; on the other hand, we have the cinemas (and, therefore, the cinema distribution) that live a situation of objective difficulties, in which the performances of 2019 still appear far away, unlike what happens instead in other countries. This is also borne out by the fact that, if 180 production companies applied for tax credits in 2019, 493 were produced in 2021. Different things happen on the opposite front, that of film distribution. In fact, if we compare the data of the first quarter of 2022 to those of 2019, we have negative values, equal to at least 62.2 percent; values that do not match absolutely those of the other countries, which record data certainly less than us: -34.2 percent for Germany, -39.3 percent for Great Britain and -26.4 percent for Spain. Even with regard to the collections, we see a big difference. Referring to the first four months of 2022, we note that Italy has decreased by less 7 percent; while different things happen, also in this case, in the other countries of Europe, such as France, Great Britain, Germany expose (+47, +75, +20 and +45 percent). It is therefore clear that there is a need for objective aid to film distribution operators, but we must not stop here. In fact, the second point I would like to discuss with my colleagues in this House is the social and inclusive value of cinemas. As has been said by the President of the Republic, cinemas require attention and cannot be neglected precisely because of the social role they play both in large cities and in small centres, as they are centres of aggregation. In our country, the crisis in cinemas is certainly higher than in other countries. I would add that since childhood going to the cinema has always been a moment of great sociality not only for what happened before (i.e. phone calls to get along), but also for what could possibly happen after (i.e. chats, pizza and more). In this sense, cinemas are certainly an instrument of great sociality. In short, cinemas are a valuable cultural and social garrison in many territories and, precisely for this reason, we must do everything to preserve them and support them with effective tools that can encourage new ways of involving and encouraging viewers to go to the cinema, adapted to the context and to the new habits of viewing cinematographic works. Finally - and this is the last point that I would like to bring to the attention of the Senate - we must consider the system of windows, that is the time between the first release of a film in a cinema and other forms of distribution and distribution of the same product. Only France has a system of mandatory windows, fixed by law and applicable to all types of films, both domestic and foreign; Spain and Germany have a similar system to ours, which provides windows only for national state-funded films, while for the UK there are no windows. The data, as it turns out, are basically similar, whether there is legislation on windows or there isn't. To sum up - and I should like to conclude, Mr President - in order to raise cinemas from the crisis, it is important to consider mainly the factors I have just listed, firstly by giving objective support to the sector, by increasing substantially the resources for this purpose, and in particular by strengthening aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. But surely we must also review the social role of cinemas; it is necessary to encourage new strategies and methods of positioning cinemas on the market, in terms of socio-cultural offer. We must consider not only those who run the cinemas, but also the viewers. With regard to this, Mr President, I would like to point out that an investigation is being carried out by the Department of Culture, precisely to see what are the new habits of viewers. In short, the windows should also be removable, for both foreign and Italian films, with the obligation of ninety days and no more, as we are asked by the managers of the cinemas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we are debating are all more or less in the same direction, that of the valorisation of cinema operators, which have always been the place par excellence for cinema. A severe crisis has affected the salt sector, also because of Covid. There was the closure of a lot of screens, 500 out of 3,600. The sector as a whole has about 60,000 employees, but this figure concerns both the exhibitors and all the workers in the film and culture sector, of which I have also been a part. It is also called camera operator the projectionist and, therefore, there is a bond, a thread that binds both these phases, production and use. The small halls - as has already been repeated - are a fundamental garrison, because cinema is a special place. When it was invented, on December 28, 1895, by the Lumière brothers, there had actually already been a search by many other inventors and photographers (even Edison, with the kinetoscope). But they were individual experiences of individual cinema use. In the case of the Lumière brothers, it was a public projection, in a public place: cinema as a show, as a cultural and social event, not only individual, but shared, with an aesthetic power and involvement that today certainly cannot give us a tablet or a mobile phone, with screens of 10 or 20 meters, depending on the rooms; screens that can be placed everywhere and create immediately aggregation, culture, exchanges between people (the spectators). The old cineforums so mentioned, perhaps described by some as boring, actually, projecting beautiful movies, become not boring, but a moment of great exchange. Therefore, in the motions together we promote the presence of small rooms on the culturally deserted territories; we predict that children have a privileged approach and are brought to the cinema, because cinema is a powerful means of communication. I don't know if you've ever heard of crying or laughing in a movie room in the dark, watching a movie; maybe it's easier than watching it on a tablet or on a mobile phone; even more difficult I think it would be an experience like exchanging a kiss in the back row in a movie room. This is the history of cinema culture and its power of aggregation, communication and involvement. When Roland Barthes came out of a movie, he said he felt alienated, almost hypnotized, because it's an enjoyment that only the cinema can give, no other instrument. This is why we expect 40 percent production tax credits for works with priority film exploitation and 30 percent for those destined for other circuits and modes of use. Even ninety days are a minimum trade union just for the abandonment of cinemas and the transition to other platforms. As has been said, this is not a motion that opposes platforms or other uses to cinema: it only brings cinema as an instrument of use to its natural and elected place, that is, the dark cinema. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u12	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate. I am very pleased that the Senate Assembly gives such a strong and determined impulse to the government's action on the subject of the protection of cinemas. We are experiencing a kind of paradox: we are facing a market of cinema and audiovisual that is growing exponentially all over the world, with a great Italian growth that comes from some choices made in the past years; the growth of tax credit cinema and investments on Cinecittà add to the great Italian attractiveness. In the face of this explosion of the market - it will last for years - we are witnessing a crisis in cinemas that has many profound reasons: in part come from the years of Covid that we have behind us, with the emergency and fear of people; in part from the platforms and in part perhaps from the fact that there has not been enough innovation of the rooms. I think we can no longer point as in the past, when comparing the film seen on television with the film seen at the cinema, on the definition of small and large screen. Today in the homes the screens are equipped with a very advanced technology, with a beautiful audio, large and inexpensive video. I believe that the difference must be assessed by comparing the individual experience to the collective one: seeing a film at home is an individual experience, seeing it in a room is a collective experience. It's a bit the difference between listening to music from a CD or download and watching a live concert. I think we have to work on this. Just these days a promotional campaign is underway in favor of the very important halls. And I believe that the halls, precisely because of their social importance that you have talked about in many, should be supported with financial support, encouraging and improving the tax credit for their renewal, making them as modern as possible, and not only places to see a film, but areas equipped with cafés, study places, research rooms, so that the presence in a cinema becomes an immersive experience. Hence legislation that supports the halls. It is very useful and important that there is a sharing in the various motions - then undersecretary Borgonzoni will express the Government's opinion - on the need to improve our legislation on windows, that is, how long the film must stay in the room before passing on a platform. It is also very useful that there is a very clear indication, which the Government will take very willingly into account, of the equivalence between Italian films and foreign films in order not to have a difference of treatment. I know that in the various motions there were indications of days. I think it is important to have a general indication with a minimum limit within which the Government will be able to deal with the parties, because of course we must arrive at a solution as much as possible agreed between the various parties (distributors, merchants and producers). It is, therefore, a very useful day, which will give us an impulse to complete this operation before the end of the parliamentary term. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u14	Mr President, on motion No 485 I am in favour of point (a) with the following rewording, which we will also ask for for all the other motions in the section concerning the so-called windows: 'Provisioning, by adopting the necessary regulatory measures, the fixing, by decree of the Minister of Culture, for all films, Italian and foreign, even not receiving State benefits, of a window of at least ninety days, without prejudice to the possibility of derogation on the basis of the peculiarities of specific types of works (difficult works or not intended for a large audience).' The opinion is in favour of points (b), (c), (d) - the forecast has already been made with an amendment to the Decree-Law on aid - and (e). On motion No. 496, the reformulation of the part relating to the so-called windows is equal to that made for motion No. 485, and is the following: "Provisioning, by adopting the necessary regulatory measures, the fixing by decree of the Minister of Culture, for all Italian and foreign films, even not receiving State benefits, of a window of at least ninety days, without prejudice to the possibility of derogation on the basis of the peculiarities of specific types of works (difficult works or not intended for a large audience). We call for point 2 to be deleted. I give a favourable opinion on points 3 and 4, with the following words: The opinion is in favour of points 5 and 6, as well as for point 7), with the following words: "to assess the opportunity, with the involvement of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities, to support it." The opinion was also in favour of points 8 and 9; the opinion was also in favour of point 10), provided that the words "like the free arena system" were deleted. I am in favour of point 11). On point 501, I am in favour of paragraph 1, provided that the words "use all the resources available for promotional activities" are replaced by the following: "to allocate appropriate resources for promotional activities" On point 2, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following words are expunged: The opinion was in favour of points 3) and (4). The opinion is also in favour of point 5), with the following words: "to assess the opportunity, with the involvement of the regions, to activate the programme." In point 6), the opinion is favourable with rewording, as it was also for the two previous motions and as it will be for the next one: "to anticipate, by adopting the necessary regulatory measures, the fixing, by decree of the Minister of Culture, for all Italian and foreign films, even not receiving State benefits, of a window of at least ninety days, without prejudice to the possibility of derogation on the basis of the peculiarities of specific types of works (difficult works or not intended for a large audience). The opinion is in favour of paragraphs 7, 8), already implemented in the Decree-Law on aid, and 9). On motion 506 I voted in favour of paragraph 1, partly already implemented in the Decree-Law on aid; the opinion is in favour of paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5). On paragraph 6), the opinion is in favour, provided that there is the following rewording: "Provisioning, by adopting the necessary regulatory measures, the fixing, by decree of the Minister of Culture, for all films, Italian and foreign, even not receiving State benefits, of a window of at least ninety days, without prejudice to the possibility of derogation on the basis of the peculiarities of specific types of works (difficult works or not intended for a large audience). Mr President, finally, I would like to thank the whole House for the work it has done and all the parliamentary groups, by majority and opposition, for the cooperation they have had.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u15	The first signatories of the motions have announced that they will accept the rewordings put forward by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u18	RUSSO (IPf-CD). Mr President, Minister, we live in the country of Federico Fellini, Marcello Mastroianni and Sophia Loren, just to name a few names of an endless list of stars. In Italy cinema is not only a pastime, but an integral part of the history of our country and has contributed to conveying our culture all over the world. For this reason, too, we cannot allow the pandemic, which we are trying to leave behind, to further hurt an industry that, according to Cinetel data in 2021, lost more than 70 percent, between revenues and presences, compared to prepandemic 2019. The point of the question is this: can we accept a reality in which cinema exists without cinemas and without those spaces of history that represented the place of emotions and experiences common throughout the twentieth century Italian? This is because, ladies and gentlemen, our cinemas, especially the historical ones of our Municipalities, are much more than just a place. I am reminded, as a Sicilian cinema lover, of the wonderful story of the little Totò told by the great Giuseppe Tornatore in "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" (New Cinema Paradiso), an absolute masterpiece of Italian cinema, which tells how much the cinemas have affected the social life of our country, to the point of becoming not a place to project films, but themselves, in a social and cultural sense, an integral part of Italian film culture. There are more than just business to be preserved in this industry. I firmly believe that Parliament cannot and must not address certain issues only from an economic point of view. It is true that new cinema distribution systems over the Internet offer the convenience of watching almost everything comfortably sitting on the couch. The same goes for sporting events, but I wonder: could football, basketball and volleyball exist without stadiums and palasports? Would that really be the same? I don't think so. Similarly, we have a duty to recognize that there can never be a cinema without cinemas. It is therefore our task to do everything possible to preserve them. How, then, can we intervene? As explained by Maestro Giuseppe Tornatore at the Taormina Film Festival, it is certainly necessary to find the right balance between those who would like to have longer times of exploitation of the film in the cinemas and those who would like faster times for the beginning of the life of the films on the platforms. We need an adequate time frame and a reasonable time, identified precisely by the Government in ninety days, that can make sure that the immediate passage of the films on platforms or on distribution channels does not increase the economic difficulties of the rooms, which are places, as said, not only centers of economic activity, but social and cultural spaces. Then we need more surgery. The tax credit facility should be extended to 60% of the distribution. The same production tax credit must be set at 40% for works with priority film exploitation and 30% for those intended for other circuits and modes of use. It is clear that the product destined to the room develops a very different economic potential for the entire supply chain than that destined to other channels, but having to face more incurred costs and higher risks. Finally, a clear regulation on three-day event exits should be introduced. On this, however, we will probably vote tomorrow in this House on a resolution on the regulation of exit events. The question of halls, moreover, has never been underestimated by the Government, which engaged during the pandemic with important strategies and economic interventions so that the halls did not close in this dark period. Tomorrow, in the so-called aid decree, we will vote on other important measures on the event projections, including the 60% recognition for small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to restructuring and structural adjustments. I'm guessing how many of us have a missing movie room in their country. For all these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of Together for the future - Democratic Centre on motion No. 485 at the first signature of Senator Gasparri and all other motions on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u21	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will only make a few brief comments to remind you that neither the Government nor Parliament have been insensitive to the issue of cinema. I remember this because one of the acts that we discussed first in the Commission and with Minister Franceschini was precisely, within the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the recovery through the energy efficiency of a large number of cinemas, if I remember correctly 274, for a hundred million euros, which had to constitute, as it must be, the incipit for a revival of Italian cinematography, naturally associated with other factors. I have heard here evoke in many speeches, beginning with that of Senator Zanda, the Italian cinema of the past. Well, I wouldn't make any illusions, even if I am enthusiastic about that story, which is part of Italian culture, and maybe we could re-edit at least a part of it, but today, alongside that story, it is above all to be recovered - I am thinking not only of the big cities, but also of the small centers - the use of cinemas and I fear that to do so we can not rely only on cinematography as such, but I think that thanks to that action of recovery, through energy efficiency and the financing of infrastructure, it is possible to attribute to those infrastructures also other purposes and, through the other purposes, to relaunch, in contrast, cinematography. The motion provides for a whole series of collateral actions, for example what concerns the remodulation of tax credit for both production and distribution, the fight against piracy and investments especially on Italian cinema. I use the last two minutes at my disposal to say that I believe that the solution found with the remodulation of the window to protect the exit in the rooms to ninety days, even if it would have been preferable to be at one hundred and twenty days, is a realistic solution that can be shared. I would add - and I would like to address the Minister and the House in this order, because I know that this Minister has a relative competence on this issue, but he is a significant part of this Government - that special attention must be paid to RaiPlay. I say this because the clash, today, is between cinematography and cinemas, on the one hand, and the big digital platforms, on the other. We have a state TV for which we pay a fee, but we have no competition possible between RaiPlay and what it produces and offers to viewers and large international platforms. Don't say that the big platforms have more economic availability, which is also true. What has emerged to date is that on RaiPlay, which has objective conditions not dissimilar from the large platforms, there were no attention and investment that should have been there. In fact, there is no doubt that this is the future destiny of a generation that is not that of the seventy-year-olds, still very connected to generalist television. However, if RaiPlay does not invest properly as a platform, it risks being swept away by platforms that have far superior characteristics in terms of investment, as well as attention to a world that is now constantly moving in that direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u24	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I will not dwell on the cultural and evocative power of our cinema; this has already been done very well by my previous colleagues, to whom I join. Today, however, even with this debate here in the Chamber and in the discussion with the Government, we have the opportunity to give a concrete witness to the attention that must be paid to the production of this cultural enterprise, which is also a moral work. The cinemas, as indicated by the National Association of Cinema Exhibitors (ANEC), have been experiencing a situation of extreme difficulty since February 23, 2020, when the entertainment sector was undermined with initial losses of more than 75-80 percent. At European level, receipts, as can be easily seen, have fallen by around 61% in Italy compared with 50% in Germany, 38% in France, 36% in Spain and 19% in the United Kingdom. The motion presented by the Fratelli d'Italia Group, n. 496, is the response of the patriotic opposition to the crisis of cinemas that arose from the comparison with all categories of the audiovisual sector. We need to help cinemas in practice and allow cinemas to win back spectators; we support a sector of our cultural industry. In our motion we had indicated within a hundred and five days the window of exploitation of films, both national and international. We must say that, thanks to the intercourse with the Government, in particular with the Undersecretary Borgonzoni, we are satisfied with the wording that is proposed, which speaks - and I also say this in detail of what President Nencini said - of at least ninety days. For us, it is an important moment for the transposition of a wait. In the same way, we believe it is important that the Government has expressed a favourable opinion on another set of points summarized in the commitments of our motion and that they can certainly represent the polar star for the regulatory activity that must be put in place, if we want to intervene concretely in support of this world. I should like to mention many of the commitments that we consider to be fundamental, on which we have been given a favourable opinion, but unfortunately the limited time limits do not allow us to enter specifically and so I preferred to deal with the nodal aspect of the windows. In any case, Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the motion that he presented and all the others, because the moment of fall and meeting that there was certainly represents an important starting point for protecting this world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u27	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Gasparri, Senator Zanda, all those who signed this motion, and Minister Franceschini for his speech. Supporting cinemas means supporting cinema and supporting Italian cinema means supporting our country. Cinema is the imaginary of Italy in the world, it is a fundamental economic flywheel, it is the work of thousands of incredible professionals, it is moral and cultural force, which contributes to make Italy a great country, wherever loved and desired. The cinema is born in the hall. Without the hall the cinema is no longer itself, because it loses its magic and its social function. Today, at the time when you can see a movie on any portable device, at any time, situation and place, the cinemas are struggling to survive. It is a crisis that actually existed before this technological revolution and that has to do with the link between the public and Italian cinema, which must be regained. It is a crisis that has become enormous during the pandemic and because of the overpower of streaming. There is a completely unbalanced market for digital platforms and politics has a duty to intervene. We have a duty to act urgently. We need urgent rules, first of all to keep the movies in the room longer. That is why we are calling for a ministerial decree establishing this time frame and for it to come as close as possible to one hundred and eighty days, so that it is solid and necessary. We call for action against computer piracy and action to strengthen measures that are working in an extraordinary way: tax credit for distribution and production, with more resources and new criteria. It is necessary to help operators, on whom the explosion of energy prices and operating costs is discharged. Above all, Mr President, it is necessary to help the weakest sections of the population, those most affected by the crisis, who will otherwise be forced, as already happens, to renounce culture, theatre and cinema. [[Applause]] We need a card for Italian cinema, that allows us to go back to the room to families that today cannot do it and that allows us to go back to the room to all the girls and all the boys, because it is an experience of training and fundamental growth. A stronger link must then be built between the new generations and Italian cinema starting from schools; to grow ideas, new authors, workers. That is why the motion we are debating today is closely linked to the bill for independent cinema and the recognition of the independent producer that we have presented and that we are discussing in the Committee on Culture here in the Senate. The overpower of the multinational entertainment companies runs the risk of engulfing the entire sector and we have a duty to support the autonomy of Italian cinema, the exception and cultural diversity, production and design pluralism. With these same reasons, we want the cinemas to live, which are a civil heritage, as the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella said. Salts that must be reinvented, as the PNRR funds already allow us to do, increasingly linking ourselves to the social fabric of our cities. When a room closes, it causes a wound, a void for a neighborhood and a territory. We want to reopen the halls, especially in the most difficult places, where they almost no longer exist, so that they are open, multifunctional places with books, music, food and wine, made in Italy. We want them to become centers of aggregation where to meet, where to find each other, where to study and participate and where to see a movie is something bigger than watching a movie: both feel part of a collective experience, because this is cinema. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u30	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we certainly do not discover today - all colleagues are well aware of this and the presentation of these motions is proof of this - that there is a deep crisis in cinemas. This crisis has, of course, become worse with the pandemic - this is undoubtedly and unfortunately not over yet - but it is not only attributable to it, however serious it has been. The data that we have examined and that, as the Minister knows, each of us knows perfectly well testify in fact that this crisis - alas - comes from afar and has become further aggravated in recent times with the use of films through the Internet and computer platforms and with the advent of increasingly cutting-edge technologies, such as tablets. We have certainly had a further problem from this point of view, but the issue - I am thinking of the many inexorable closures of cinemas in my city - has even come from previous years. We have reported in our motion the data - in any case, known to all - that tell us that even with the reopening we have had a negative sign compared to previous years. What scares me - the Minister knows well - and what should worry us very much, because it is a question that concerns our country, is the comparison between our data both on receipts and on attendances (a decrease of 7% of the receipts between the first four months of 2022 compared to the same period of 2021), and the data of other countries: I think of France, Germany and England, which also stands in the lowest ranking. This has a significant impact, in my opinion, on cinema, which is a great cultural industry in our country. It cannot fail to have reflections: it is not only the closure of the halls and their crisis, but it is instead a problem of a cultural, social and working order. We are talking about a sector that has about 60,000 workers, so the issue from this point of view is very serious. I think that other measures must be put in place. The government has already done many things - and this must be acknowledged - especially during the most serious period of the pandemic crisis, but I think that today we need to intervene with more structural measures. Our motion, as well as the others, because, as you can see, there has been a unity of intent on the part of the whole Assembly, has made proposals and, accepting also the rewording of the Government, tries to put in place measures that can if not resolve definitively, certainly at least in the face of this crisis. On the first question of the window, we had proposed the one hundred and eighty days, but, by entrusting to a ministerial decree the possibility of distinguishing, making exceptions and adapting the measures, it was agreed on the minimum threshold of ninety days and of course continue with the tax credit. I want to say another thing: you also have to reinvent the cinemas, in the sense that they cannot be alone and only the place of the cinema's enjoyment; precisely because it is a cultural, social and collective fact, which is very different from having it individually in your home, on your tablet or on your television, you have to make sure that there are side activities, such as in the libraries or in the meeting places. Cinema and cinemas must return to what they were when we were kids: places where we went together, we discussed; there were artist's cinemas and film festivals and there was also a fact of cultural growth around the cinema, which is fundamental for our neighborhoods. It was a pain for everyone to see the cinemas replace the Bingo rooms in a certain season and see them close today, because they are the opposite of the redevelopment of our neighborhoods, especially the outskirts. For all these reasons, we urge the Government to intervene not only with the specific measures contained in the commitments of our motions, but to make sure that there really can be a capacity for intervention also with other measures and to study new ones, because I believe that our cinema, which is really an extraordinary thing, with which we have made history, is also a factor of cultural identity of our country and is no longer the same, if in the end it is missing the place of collective enjoyment of cinemas. From this point of view, it is an absolutely fundamental mission to intervene to make sure that this crisis is overcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u33	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues from the various groups who signed the motion I tabled a long time ago: Zanda, De Petris, Quagliariello, De Nicola, Cangini, obviously from my Group, Marcucci, Rampi, Iori, Verducci, Donno and Pinotti. This has given itself a transversal character to this motion, which defends cinema in the room: I say this because we talked about it, but I want to reiterate it. It may also seem singular that on a political day like this we talk to the Senate of the cinema in the room. Perhaps it is also a good thing, because it is shown that Parliament, despite the political concerns that exist, continues to deal with issues of culture and sociality. Cinema is culture and the cinema is a meeting place, so it is important to address these issues as well and it is not a bizarre one. After all, the motion had been tabled for a long time and for various calendar events it arrived today. I thank Minister Franceschini for coming personally and speaking and undersecretary Borgonzoni for the preliminary work of the various opinions. The world, ladies and gentlemen, does not end up in a smartphone, in a tablet and not even in a new generation smart TV, that there are, we use them all, we are surrounded by these objects and even the television at home is more modern and with platforms brings us many products. There is also cinema, however: the room is a meeting place where you test the films, as has been said before; it is also a place of collections for producers, authors and directors. And today it happens that the so-called window, the time between the projection in the hall and the arrival in the houses (before there were only the DVDs or before the videotapes, today there are the platforms), has become too narrow. Even we, if we miss a movie, soon we find it easily on other media. Some are produced directly for new platforms and this is the freedom of the market. With this motion we want to restore a period of time (at least ninety days), with a measure to be taken by the current Minister (or what will be there, as we speak for the future), for both Italian and foreign films, avoiding discrimination. Sometimes, in fact, Italian films enjoy help and interventions; it is made important cultural and is good. We want to restore places that, as has already been said by everyone, have suffered the effects of the pandemic and experienced difficulties. For many people going to the movies had become a challenge and I am not here to mention the collections that are still recorded today. Minister Franceschini, you are well aware (and in the motion we have written) that the President of the Republic Mattarella, on the occasion of the ceremony of presentation of the David Awards of Donatello at the Quirinale, said that cinemas require attention and cannot be neglected. Their social role is important in the most populated cities, as well as in the smaller centres and are centres of aggregation. The crisis of the cinemas that we present is superior to that of other European countries and this pushes us to support them with interventions and to take care of this civil heritage with resources destined to cinemas and theatres to improve, beautify and make more functional environments. The halls must be modernized. Motions also concern tax credit for distribution and production. You, Minister, have undertaken to renew these measures and in some cases perhaps even increased them more than we imagined. The three-day projections have already been regulated by the so-called aid decree. In writing this motion, followed by those of the other groups which took this opportunity of debate, we also followed the debate of the operators. A long time ago an appeal by Paolo Del Brocco, CEO of Rai Cinema, and Giampaolo Letta, CEO of Medusa, appeared in the newspaper "Corriere della sera." We were sensitive to this appeal, which called for the suffering of a sector. They are men who deal with cinema, but also with television and cinema on television, but who have defended the cinemas. (17.34) (Follows GASPARRI). I am sure that you will follow up on these commitments and that Italy will do so and that today we have discussed this issue and praised the political activity of the Senate. This is an issue on which the President of the Republic and many others have also spoken and which concerns an industry that is important for Italy. Senator Zanda is right in saying that, in times of crisis, cinema - even the Italian one: let's think about the post-war period - gave back a perspective and hope, told stories or did entertainment. Light cinema, at times, is also important in people's lives, who already have so many problems and so much anguish. There is quality and committed cinema and there is also cinema that makes you smile. The Italian comedy is now part of the literature. I believe that the approval of these motions is important. I also tell the platforms to threaten less and invest more, because their arrogance has also felt these days. However, Parliament - right, Senator De Petris? - does not bow to such arrogance and those who navigate and eat around the platforms. Long live the platforms, if you need progress, and live the modern instruments, but live also the cinema in the room. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u36	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Franceschini for the commitment he is making on this day in support of the cinemas and above all because he recognizes their social value, because, as such, they must be absolutely supported in all their aspects. I also thank you for the synthesis that has been found among the various motions presented by the various parliamentary groups, especially on the point concerning windows, which I think are an instrument, as are the contributions and economic support given to cinema operators, but which are not the only thing we have to look at. Just because of the social value I was talking about earlier, the cinemas - as some previous colleagues have said - must above all be rethought. We need to rethink the culture of cinema, we need to rethink how to use these rooms, which must not only be simple containers where people (the viewers) go to see a film, but something more, precisely because of the changed habits and modes, which however are different from the past. Precisely for this reason, precisely because we have to put new ideas in place to rethink the rooms, bring back the spectators and make them live as an experience, I would like to remember an experience that has been made. I take this opportunity to thank the Undersecretary Lucia Borgonzoni, who helped us find a synthesis for the motions. This is an idea that was put on the field in 2019 by our undersecretary Lucia Borgonzoni: Moviement, from 1 May to 29 August 2019, made 140 million euros cash in the cinemas of our country. [[Applause]] This is to say that with new ideas, proper promotion and collaboration between the entire film system and the institutions, important results can be achieved. So let's think about the cinemas and put new ideas in the field, precisely to restore dignity to a place that must be of sociality first of all, but that must still represent a flagship for our culture and for the film production that our country has and has always had over time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u39	DE LUCIA (M5S). Madam President, Minister, I am a little sorry to have to open this short speech by contradicting one of my favorite Italian directors, Mario Monicelli, who one day in his interview said that the films would probably always live and always be made, while the cinemas would die instead. Well, I think that today we here are putting the point to contradict this prediction, although it comes from a great man of Italian cinema. [[Applause]] Cinema in fact we all know that it has a great cultural value, but above all educational: it educates us to reality, but it also educates us at the same time to fantasy. If we want to make sure that it survives, we must do what we have done next door today, in the government room, where we have found an agreement all together, thanks also to the offices of the Ministry, that have been available and attentive to evaluate every small conjunction and every passage, so that we can connect all political forces. It is important what we are doing, because we have not only talked about financing cinemas and the dissemination of films, but also about the ability to design the future of Italian cinema. We have been told today that shortly, probably at the Venice Film Festival, a close relationship will be presented (probably the first time we have done so in our country), which will also assess which audience we have to expect for the next few years in Italian cinema. It is clear that there is a great deal of attention around the entire cinema operation, which is not only production and distribution or vision, but an entire mechanism and an industry. We must come back to the order of ideas that what we approve today is a package for Italian industry, even for a fantasy industry (why not?). After all, we have told many beautiful stories with our great artists and great actors. Italian cinema - not even on purpose - in recent years has gained world recognition, with young people who are replacing the old class of Italian authors and directors. It is our duty to be here today to support these motions, which in reality all say the same thing: we must love our Italian cinema and our nation, which is not only made of all the bad things that are told to us, but it is also the ability through fantasy, the story, putting together extraordinary professionalism, all too mortified in these years of pandemic, to tell us a dream again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u40	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 485 (text 2), tabled by Senators Gasparri, Zanda, De Petris, Quagliariello, Di Nicola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 496 (text 2), tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 501 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Lucia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 506 (text 2), tabled by Senator Saponara and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Thus ended the discussion of motions on the crisis of cinemas. Colleagues, awaiting the information of the Minister for Agriculture and Food and Forestry, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.45 p.m. and resumed at 6.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u41	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy on initiatives in relation to the drought emergency, with particular reference to the agriculture sector. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Senator Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u42	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Senators for wanting to schedule an information in this House on such an emerging and important issue for our country's agri-food farming systems. Once again it becomes clear how closely the fortunes of the agricultural sector are connected to the economic and social well-being of the entire country. The lack of water is putting to the test vast areas of the Italian territory, with serious inconveniences for citizens and companies. In addition, agriculture faces particularly heavy problems, which have a direct impact on the quantity and prices of food on the market. It is therefore most appropriate to take stock of what is happening and to think about how best to deal with the emergency, by taking the most effective measures in emergency. At the same time, however, it is essential to focus on and clearly analyse the available data, to examine the problem also from a medium to long-term perspective, planning structural interventions and system solutions. I believe that, above all, this is the time to do more than talk. In premise and in general, I would like to remind you that the Ministry that I represent has rather specific competences on the subject subject of the information, that they concern the programming and the financing of the participations in the field of irrigation infrastructures of national importance, whose concrete execution is then entrusted to the consortia of reclamation and to the irrigation agencies. The national relevance of the interventions is defined on the basis of the capacity of the invaders. It is considered to be of national relevance to investments involving an invading capacity of more than 250,000 cubic metres and of regional importance to smaller investments. This criterion for dividing the irrigation sector between national and regional levels has been established in the Rural and National Development Programme 2014-2020 and still applies. Of course, the primary responsibility for water and multi-purpose infrastructure lies with other ministries, in particular the MIMS and the Mite. The MIMS plays a strategic coordinating role in the planning and financing of infrastructure interventions related to primary water supply, while the MITE is primarily involved in the planning and financing of interventions to combat failure, environmental protection and regulation and energy policy. On the other hand, the district authorities of the river basins are responsible for planning large-scale water resources. There is also a competence of the Regulatory Authority for energy networks and the environment, the ARERA, on regulations and there is a regional competence and local authorities on lower-scale basins. It is clear therefore a fragmentation of competences that has never facilitated the investments and the implementation of an investment plan that our Country has always had. On this I would like to make a brief general premise regarding the issue we are dealing with in the emergency, namely the proposal that comes from several quarters to appoint an extraordinary commissioner. In my opinion, the Commissioner serves if it is a new structure that works, that has competences, economic capacity of expenditure and in some way the possibility of really intervening; otherwise I think it is more right, since we need planning and thinking about the medium to long term, to create an ad hoc structure in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, because we cannot think that decreeing the state of emergency and naming a Commissioner will actually solve the problem. The problem is solved if the Commissioner then has the capacity and is put in a position to operate. However, let us analyze the context in which we are moving, because as early as January there have been signs of alarm for the irrigation season due to the absence of significant winter rainfall. Data from the CNR Institute of Atmospheric Sciences and Climate confirmed for 2022 half-precipitation compared to the average of the period, a figure that reached between -50 and -60 percent in the North-West Regions. The drought that first hit Northern Italy, in particular the water catchment area of the Po river, has gradually spread towards the Centre and the South of the country, especially because of the record temperatures. According to the latest meetings of district observers, there are confirmed scenarios of high water severity for the districts of the Po River, the Eastern Alps and the North Apennines and a scenario of medium water severity with worsening trends for the district of the Central Apennines. The scarce rains at the end of June have contributed in part to attenuating the situation, but in some cases the rainfall has proved even harmful because accompanied by strong winds and hail. The current year is also characterized by record temperatures that have contributed significantly to composing the emerging picture. In view of the current emergency, we must recognise that we are now accustomed to witnessing worrying droughts cyclically: such situations occurred in 2003, 2007, 2012, 2017 and now 2022; therefore, we have a drought of such magnitude every five years. However, it is clear that, from time to time, the phenomenon presents itself with greater intensity and with increasingly devastating consequences. ISPRA reported a few days ago that the average year value of water resources available for the last thirty years 1991-2020 has been reduced by 19 percent compared to that of the thirty years 1921-1950. ISPRA's projections for the near future are more concerned: given the climate change in place, water availability is expected at national level to be reduced from 10% to 40%. The CNR Drought Observatory recently pointed out that the agricultural sector continues to suffer, with 40% of the irrigated areas and rice fields subject to extreme severe droughts not only from the beginning of the year, but also from twelve months. The small number of water reserves, due both to the lack of rainfall and the lack of upland nival reserves, led agricultural operators, including reclamation and irrigation consortia, to face a precarious situation as early as March. The water shortage of the most important river in Italy, the Po, is affecting more than a third of national agricultural production. The lack of water also reduced yields in the crops sown last autumn such as wheat, barley and loietto. It should also be pointed out that the water crisis has taken place in an already critical economic context, with companies experiencing heavy increases in production costs resulting from the conflict in Ukraine. Supporting citizens and businesses by protecting our territory is the primary objective in this period of great new difficulties. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers of 4 July, we resolved the declaration of the state of emergency until 31 December of this year for Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto. The state of emergency is aimed at dealing with the situation with civil protection instruments, with extraordinary means and powers, with relief and assistance to the population concerned and to restore the functionality of public services and infrastructure and strategic networks. The state of emergency could soon be extended to other regions that have already submitted or are submitting a request, including Lazio, Umbria, Liguria and Tuscany. It is clear that it is not enough - as I said before - to decree the state of emergency, but we must work to increase not only our ability to carry out the necessary infrastructure interventions, but also to support the producers at this time. For this reason, in the decree-law which the President of the Council himself announced that it would be proposed at the Council of Ministers at the end of July, measures to support workers and businesses must be provided for. Some urgent measures to deal with the water emergency will be contained in that text. We no longer believe that the strengthening of coordination and structural measures aimed at mitigating the damage caused by drought and the strengthening and adaptation of water infrastructure can be postponed. Before the search for new resources we need to consolidate and rationalise the whole of the interventions already activated from a system perspective, because all too often we are faced with virtuous initiatives, but isolated and fragmented, not included in an organic framework. In the framework of the decree-drought law, we will propose, therefore, the introduction of norms aimed at strengthening the structures of the individual Ministries for the management of the participations previewed in the National Plan of recovery and resilience on the water topic, as well as to establish a fund destined to finance the phase of planning of the irrigation structures of the Country, and then I will cite the measure of the National Plan of resumption and resilience on the irrigation infrastructures. In comparison with the reclamation consortia we have seen that there are areas of the country where the design capacity is close to zero and entire areas without a project can be sung in the times and in the ways provided by the PNRR. Among the measures specifically aimed at the agricultural sector I will also propose the refinancing of the National Solidarity Fund, which today has a residual budget of 13 million euros - obviously insufficient to address the issue of compensation for the damages that farmers are suffering - in order to compensate farms that at the onset of the emergency did not benefit from the coverage brought by insurance policies against drought risk. This is a necessary intervention in this emerging framework and taking into account the current national risk management system in agriculture, which is still heavily based on ex post interventions. But I want to point out - and I will come back to this later - that we are working to change this kind of approach. Since the beginning of my mandate, we have been working, together with the Ministry's structures, to renew the risk management tools - as this House knows - available to farmers, including through the establishment of a new national mutual fund that will be active as early as 1 January 2023, of which I will then give you some more details. The last Istat report on water, published in March, indicates that the losses of our water system still correspond to 36.2 percent (data of 2020); the daily loss per kilometre of net is equal to 41 cubic meters, for a total of 0.9 billion cubic meters in a year. Let us not forget that in more than one out of three towns there are total losses of more than 45%, with peaks reaching 70%, which I believe is not acceptable in a civil state. Moreover, one worrying fact is the scarce storage capacity of rainwater, which in Italy amounts to about 11 percent, in the sense that we catch about 11 percent of rainwater. The data tell us, therefore, that the directions to intervene are the following: increasing the capacity of water storage, modernising existing invaders and creating new works at the territorial and corporate level; renewing and making efficient the water network, reducing losses and ensuring timely monitoring of uses; promoting a rational use of water resources in the agricultural and industrial sector, giving priority to precision farming techniques supported by the Transitional 4.0 package; also making citizens aware of responsible use of water as a common good to preserve for future generations. On the subject of investment in the water system, however, we must say that much has been done in recent years and I am referring to a period which is obviously much longer than my mandate, and I therefore do not want to take any credit for the investments that I will now mention and which also show the extent of what is being done. Even in the light of the above data, it is clear that water scarcity is no longer of extraordinary character, but is now a recurring factor, one of the themes constantly included in national policies. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, the Ministry has long been equipped to cope with a national strategy on water saving, territorial protection and the fight against hydrogeological failure. It is a long-term programme aimed at promoting investment in reducing the risks of water scarcity in agriculture. The aim of the measures provided for in the strategy is to promote an increasingly efficient use of water, ensuring a greater and more constant availability of water for irrigation. Reducing levies also contributes to achieving the targets set by the Water Framework Directive and the sustainable use of water in agriculture. Improving water management also means ensuring the correct quantification of irrigation volumes and for this reason the irrigation agencies are required to adhere to the National Information System for the management of water resources in agriculture (SIGRIAN) and to transmit the collection and use data. The strengthening of water infrastructure can take place both upstream, on the large accumulations of water supply networks - as well as in the construction of a widespread network of small invaders - and downstream, on the distribution networks. Overall, in the period 2018-2022, approximately € 1.24 billion was invested in the financing of 169 irrigation projects for 135 beneficiaries through the National Rural Development Programme, the Development and Cohesion Fund and the Fund for the relaunch of the country's infrastructure development. It is clear that this was not enough, but it cannot be said that nothing has been done with regard to the subject. The implementation of the irrigation efficiency strategy is also supported by the additional resources made available by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; the M2C4 component provides a budget of EUR 880 million, of which EUR 520 million is for new projects and EUR 360 for projects already started with national resources. The proposed actions aim to increase the resilience of the irrigation agrosystem to climate change, with particular reference to drought events, with the aim of improving water resource management, reducing losses, facilitating the measurement and monitoring of uses on collective networks, which is a prerequisite for the quantification of the water actually used. For the implementation of the interventions a tight timeline is foreseen in order to be able to guarantee the contract of the works by 2023 and their realization by 2026. The progress of the measure is in line with the planned timetables. In September 2021 the list of eligible projects was published, while by September of this year the concession decrees will be issued following the establishment of the eligibility requirements declared by the beneficiaries in the project application phase. The investments financed by the Mipaaf are to supplement and accompany the actions of efficiency and safety of the primary water infrastructure, managed by other Ministries within the same component of the PNRR (M2C4), with a budget of 2 billion euros. The PNRR attaches great importance to the issue of water with an appropriation of €4.38 billion, aimed at ensuring the sustainable management of water resources throughout the cycle and the improvement of the environmental quality of inland and maritime waters within the competence of the Ministry of the ecological transition. With a procedure entirely similar to that used for the investment of the PNRR, a further 440 million euros of interventions from 2022 to 2027 can be financed in the near future, thanks to the resources allocated by the budget law 2020. Overall, since 2018, some 2.2 billion euros of national and European funds have already been allocated or are being allocated by the Mipaaf, for interventions on irrigation infrastructure. The Ministry has also actively collaborated with the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility in the drafting of the National Water Plan, helping to define the priorities of intervention and consequently the criteria of choice of interventions, which will also be applied for the 2020-2029 programming. The current water emergency demonstrates the need for further investment over the coming years, with particular attention to the upgrading of storage infrastructure, assessing the use of non-conventional water sources, such as re-use of waste water. In line with what has been proposed by the National Association of Reclamation and Irrigation Consortia, it is also important to encourage the creation of medium-sized and inter-company accumulation works, which can also perform multiple environmental functions on the territory, as well as self-sustaining from the energy point of view with the interaction of water management and the production of energy from renewable sources. I also believe that the instruments that we have made available by the 2019 Budget Law and the tax credit for agriculture 4.0 are also having great success for the investment capacity of the companies in terms of precision agriculture and all those tools that can lead to better management of the water resource and its reduced use. With precision agriculture and drip irrigation, up to 75% of water can be saved for some crops compared to a traditional irrigation mode. A further measure in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan on Mechanisation provides for €400 million of non-refundable interventions to replace the so-called agricultural machinery fleet. Some of these resources can be used by businesses to purchase precision agricultural components with the same effect as I mentioned earlier. With regard to the issue of risk management - as I said - we must focus our attention on what we are doing - I believe - with great satisfaction and which will increase the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises in relation to extreme climate phenomena such as drought. In this area - as has already been mentioned several times in various speeches in this House too - we cannot tackle this issue only in the logic of ex post intervention, with compensation that comes when the damage has already occurred. The Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies is working to re-orient and strengthen risk management strategies, with the aim of offering more tools to address new challenges arising from climate change. And drought is part of the climate risks that farmers now have to deal with systematically. Already today farms can take out insurance policies facilitated also for drought, with a state contribution of up to 70% of the premium expenditure incurred. But it is clear that, on the one hand, insurance products are not particularly active and, on the other, there is a resistance on the part of the agricultural world in some parts of the country to ensure. In order to strengthen the current system, the Mipaaf has implemented ad hoc measures in the context of CAP reform and the latest budget law. Within the National Strategic Plan we have drawn a line with a forecast of realization of a mutual fund and with a policy tool index based. Thanks to the new CAP, the ordinary risk management tools have been enhanced through the National Mutual Fund. In this way, the facilitated insurance instrument will be supported by the Mutual Fund, financed with 3% of direct payments and the resources that will be made available through a specific co-financed intervention of rural development. We will therefore act on resources for some 700,000 farmers who receive direct CAP payments against catastrophal damage amounting on average to over 600 million euros. Overall, starting from 2023, we will have a package of actions for risk management of the total value of almost €700 million per year. To achieve this funding, in the 2022 budget maneuver, we have integrated the national co-financing of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) with a total budget of EUR 891.5 million. I believe that the agricultural and agri-food production system is currently under a lot of stress, linked to the increase in the cost of inputs, energy, feed, fertilizers, the purchase of raw materials for animal feed. Added to this is the complexity linked to the current weather events and, therefore, to the phenomenon of drought. It is our duty, in the next decree-law, to provide both structural interventions and immediate measures to restore the damage that agriculture is suffering. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u43	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Senator Simone Bossi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u44	Minister, I would not like to be repetitive, because on this subject, which is dear to me, I made a speech at the end of the sitting a few days ago and something has moved, at least in part of our country, from the mountain to the plain. However, the communities affected are still many and there is still a great need for water. Today, the agricultural world is aware of what is happening and perhaps farmers are the only ones who are really aware of it. Unfortunately, politics is not; unfortunately, politics is still coming late. If it doesn't rain, it's no one's fault, for Christ's sake, and I emphasize it and repeat it. But, if rainwater, as much or as little as it is, is always wasted - and it has been for decades, not since yesterday - it is certainly the responsibility of all those who have not wanted to see a bit more of their noses. If we turn on the TV and radio, every day we hear the usual things: the climate is changing, the glaciers are melting, there is global warming. In the midst of all these phrases, the only really important thing we do is pretend not to hear them: fresh water is a precious asset; it is the only good that can give us life today and we are wasting it every day. [[Applause.]] What do we do to safeguard water? We have 20% in the North and 40% to 60% in the South-Central waste of drinking water due to deterioration of the water supply and nobody does or says anything. We only notice the problem when the water isn't there. Is it possible that none of the thousands of experts we have in Italy - and we really have many, experts in everything - have ever thought of making a water collection system in the invaders, at the lowest point that is the Po Valley? They make them in the mountains and we don't do them downstream? And then we complain that the water doesn't come from the mountains. This is insane, Minister. I will tell you more: at a particular moment like this, those few far-sighted projects that exist of collection invades realized in the plain, that we have done in the fifties and sixties, we do not even use them. I quote an example that I have before my eyes, near my house, that I know very well: in my territory there is the famous - or infamous - navigable canal, a work never finished, started and remained there, in the middle of the countryside. We're talking about 13 kilometers of water on concrete shores, a 40-metre-wide and 4-metre-high canal. In this phase of severe water crisis in my territory has not been used. Do you know why, Minister? The bureaucracy did not allow use in emergency. What was the use of spending thousands of public money on works that are not used in the moment of need? [[Applause]] You see, Minister, I am addressing you because you are here, although we understand that we are talking about a problem that we have been carrying for years and that persists. I do not think we can tell farmers today: we did not have any water, we do not give you any money, and if we give it to you, you have to be content with what we are giving you. It's not just uncomfortable, it's also annoying. We urgently need a refreshment of all - I repeat all - the losses of the agricultural world, and not as we did with the Covid, giving money a lot to everyone, throwing billions. We need a serious compensation fund. I hope it will come as soon as possible, because it must be agreed with the trade associations and based on three basic criteria: product estimates; damage quantification; short-term and long-term repercussions. On these three fundamental pillars then we go to compensate for all those activities that have the right to do so; not one more and not one less. This makes a serious country, this makes a serious political class. Today's damage in Italy is estimated at 4.5 billion: of these alone in Lombardy we speak of 2.2 billion loss. We are talking about 20 percent of companies that have harvested zero. The estimate is almost over 20 percent of the total loss and 40 percent of the other farms, which is between 35 and 45 percent of the first sowing crop loss. If we are aware of the damage that farmers and agriculture are experiencing, we may be able to understand what will happen to us shortly. And today it is absolutely necessary to help that agriculture and that agricultural world to get out of this drought-related crisis. If you will allow me, Minister, with the PNRR we cannot miss the great opportunity to renew our country to the challenges in step with the times, not throwing away money in useless projects, but investing them in projects that really serve our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u45	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u46	Minister, we have listened to your report: so many numbers, so many resources; but the truth is that our agriculture is dry. There is no water and we do not have the opportunity to distribute even the little water that exists in the most economical way possible to our farmers. I say this to you, Minister: you have made a point which unfortunately - as we may recall - has been repeated many times now. I remind you of the various water crises that there have been, serious drought crises: 1997, 2002, 2012 and 2017, which was the worst. Some 5 billion damage has been estimated for these crises, almost half due to the 2017 crisis, and all the time politics questions, has to intervene and the so-called drought decrees come out. The draft came out almost a month ago; then there was some rain and it disappeared. This is not the right attitude that politics must have. There are plans and projects, but we should try to apply them. Let me give you some examples, but not before a brief note. In the draft decree that has circulated (we do not know if it is the definitive one, because we are now in such a chaos for which it is objectively difficult to make any kind of prediction) there was also reference to a Commissioner, whom you mentioned in your reasoning. The Commissioner is a useful figure if he has the opportunity to operate, but that is not enough. A national plan is also needed to identify the water needs, the structures necessary for the country system and, within a national framework, the specificities of each individual territory. Indeed, as you know, almost 90% of national water consumption is absorbed by agriculture, industry and electricity production. Only 10 percent is about drinking water (on which I will make a small note later). In order to do this, the Commissioner (who must have the power to act and overcome all the various levels of governance, which are so many at national level and which do not allow a precise framework to be found), but there must also be this plan, which we do not see today. As I have already said, the Commissioner must really have the powers to act. I hope this is not a Commissioner like the one provided for in the decree on African swine fever, since we have solved absolutely nothing. What to do? You, Minister, mentioned the consortia and you are right. However, I would remind you that more than a year ago the Agriculture and Food Production Commission of the Senate approved an assigned deal that made a very clear picture of the situation of reclamation and irrigation consortia. You said in some cases that you didn't find the design ability, but already in that assigned deal and in that resolution we had written that these problems were there. Why not also look at the work being done? [[Applause]] This is the fundamental fact: never look at it. I would have liked to give some more thought, but time is tyrant and it is ending. The plans are there: there are pond plans and there might be the possibility to stimulate the recovery of city waste water with purifiers. Let's think of some cities ruled by the center-left for over seventy years. I give you the punctual example of Pistoia, where the center-right came to power after seventy-five years, where there are still neighborhoods that are not connected to the sewers and do not have drinking water and where wells are used. That is what we must do. True, 50 percent of the pipes lose, but refer to 10 percent of the water used. We must adopt a plan on which to act and ensure that, at last, there are not only speeches, but also real and effective works. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u48	Mr Minister, after listening to your speech, we must all hope that it will rain, because in the end I have heard words, but not solutions. Given the short time available, although I have taken many notes, I will focus on some issues. The situation in Northern Italy cannot be put all in the same pot. All the reclamation consortia that underlie the regulators of the large lakes have a marginal water problem (in particular, the West Sesia basin, which takes water from the Dora Baltea and Lake Maggiore, has less problems and a water situation under control). Absent withdrawals are taken at 100%, but probably no one will make the following consideration: how much does the farmer pay for water? During this period, we hear about water thefts, but they are linked to the fact that each farmer who joins the consortium is entitled to a number of hours daily water, compatible with what they charge water. This is why water thefts consist of the farmer who pays the bell, who goes at night, pulls up his sleeper and gives him an hour of water. Do we want to do more about water costs for farmers? Faced with full channels, in fact, there are farmers who cannot use that water. This applies - I repeat - to the three East Ticino Villoresi, East Sesia and West Sesia consortia. Secondly: you have spoken of the invaded plains, but they must be done in the mountains, where there is a higher rainfall and a greater possibility of capturing and using the basin as a mountain basin than in the valley, which consists of the famous four great subalpine lakes. In the plain the only thing that can be done is a single project, that exists and runs for years: it is a plan of basining of the Po, with the construction of new sleepers (we lose the navigability, but fine), for an accumulation of 3 billion cubic meters. The small invaders consist of hundreds of thousands of cubic meters, but here we have a problem of billions, which is solved by reasoning about the billions. Do we have the courage to do a national-level operation for the sinking of the course of the Po? Another thing: reclamation consortia always have the problem of financing works. If these fall into a Region, they must be approved by that Region. There are some who have made the clever, like the East Sesia, who have done the work by charging them with cost, in order to be able to do others, and there are others who cannot; so there is the dispersion from the audience of the channels. This is something that needs to be resolved, but with a central intervention, because the Regions do not have derived finance. Moreover, the Regions have been ordered to reduce and revise the large concessions, which are over 20 cubic meters per second of withdrawal, systematically reducing them, because they are supposed to be withdrawals no longer online. Well, if that can be true, I'll tell you what follows. Irrigation nets are rigid, i.e. they are made to irrigate certain types of crops and not others. If farmers who wanted to make rice could no longer do so in the North-West consortia, where rice is made, suddenly poplar is made, because water would become prohibitively expensive for them. The withdrawal is that, the consortium picks up and, if the water consumes it in many, divides it on many, but, if they consume it in few, those few pay for all. This is something that needs to be completely reviewed. On waste water, I could agree, but you no longer have industrial waste delivered and you no longer have industries connected to the purifiers. Otherwise, we have the problem of chemical residues of metals in the fields. First, we must ensure that industrial users no longer rely on the civil purifier, and then we can talk about this. I would like to say one last thing about the elephant in the room, about which Mr La Pietra spoke. Industrial users are the largest consumer of water collected and also of drinking water, which, instead of being used to drink or to irrigate (according to the following scale: drinking, irrigating and everything else), are used for that, because sea water is not good, even for establishments that are on the shore, being obviously salty. We cannot make industrial users compete with primary needs such as irrigation and drinking, otherwise we will end up blaming the citizen who bathes the garden or the one who washes the car, but the elephant in the room, responsible for most consumption, will never be touched. We must intervene on this. One more thing, very fast. You spoke of climate crisis: it is true, but partially. This is a weather crisis: at this moment, the Mediterranean basin has an increase in temperatures determined by another thing, that is, by the rise of the intertropical convergence zone, due to the fact that the reforestation interventions in the South Sahara have done nothing but move the heat line forward. As long as we have a hot air bubble and we do not plan to cooperate with North Africa to reduce the hot air bubble that is created every year in the desert, we will only move the Sahara upwards. Instead, we, like genes, went to finance the reforestation projects from below, without thinking that the Mediterranean basin, which has already suffered the famous crisis of the Mexican salinity (three million years ago), is subject to a net loss of water due to evaporation. On this absolute zero. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u49	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u50	Dear Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your presence and for this information. As several observers have reported for two months now, we are faced with the biggest water crisis of the last seventy years, which does not seem to diminish. The Po basin and the Po Plain are on their knees. Just in view of this gravity, which I want to photograph again, let me begin, Minister, with a political consideration: for the truth, the intervention of the colleague of the League who preceded me - as if the League had not ruled all the regions of the North for a long time and as if it had never had anything to do with the Ministry of Agriculture - was going to confuse me [[Applause]] But let's get to the political point. The biggest water shortage in recent history of our country needs a government in its full capacity, I stress. [[Applause]] Commissioner or institutional coordination that is - I find your words reasonable, Minister - there are no separations of competences here in the face of this tragic situation. There are no solutions for agriculture, for the environment, for energy or for economic and social holding with vertical initiatives of the individual ministries: either together or nothing. I think that's the approach we need. I really hope that the political conditions will make it possible to adopt the decree-law against drought that you referred to and that it will be a text that is up to the situation. I must also say that I do not even want to consider different scenarios, Minister, so I come to the point and point out three elements that I believe have to do with a concrete measure that is up to the situation. The first: more water in a very short time. In the next two weeks, it is necessary to free as much water as possible from the Alpine and Apennine invades. We are talking about something of the order of 200 million cubic meters of water to save at least half of the corn and rice crops. I also say this in order to avoid grotesque territorial divisions over who keeps the water and who does not have the water available. [[Applause]] As you know, the bulk of the available water is stored in the hydroelectric reservoirs. You have to choose: much less water for energy production, if this is the way - I think so -; much more water for irrigation use. Second element: the storage of water in the medium term. In addition to the measures of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which you have rightly recalled, of revision of the water network, we hope that their programming, as planned in recent months, is still largely current - but we will return to this point - I think there is another urgent infrastructural theme: our country has more than 500 large dams, that is those that exceed the million cubic meters of invading, and more than 10,000 small invaders distributed throughout the national territory. This is the first infrastructure asset at our disposal. As a Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to the decree-infrastructure law, which I would ask you to follow closely, Minister, in its conversion phase right here in the Senate, so that an immediate survey of the state of maintenance and current and potential use of these minor infrastructures is carried out. Minister, let us be clear: the possibility of retaining and storing water in the next six months passes from here or there is no other way. Thirdly, immediate reliefs from the lack of income for agricultural enterprises. As you know, for many years production costs and revenues have practically leveled: growing a hectare of rice brings an income practically equal to the costs to produce it; therefore, the difference makes it the CAP. What's the problem? Clearly, this equation needs to be revised, because production costs have increased by 40% and harvests have decreased by 40%; therefore, it is necessary to help agricultural enterprises and need immediate resources. These are three things that we consider to be a priority, but is that all? No; and I shall finish, Mr President. The other night, together with my colleague Mr Manca, I met in Vigevano, the heart of European rice production, I am not Italian, about fifty farmers. Well, from their testimonies something more has emerged, I dare say even deeper than the concern of unsustainable climate change. Do you remember, Minister, the words with which Giovanni Guareschi painted the traits of the place where the scenes of the famous novels with Don Camillo and Peppone took place? The author spoke of a land between the great river and the mountains, where, first of all, men are men. This was inside those voices: roots, food, water and land as the very essence of the history of centuries-old communities, shaken by the fear that the promises of progress and development of democracy, which you have rightly recalled, already strongly weakened by the pandemic and war, may completely wither, also taking away the right to life to some extent. Here's the size of this emergency. Politics is up to speed in the next few days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u51	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u52	Mr President, the assessments carried out by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) show a very critical picture of water management and drought. The country therefore pays, on the one hand, that water that we did not have because of the absence of rain and snow, but to this there is to add the level of dispersion of the waters used by the local authorities. Drought is therefore unfortunately a driving force for desertification and the degradation of the territories, but also for social instability. The most affected economic sectors are agriculture, which is in the first place, but surely there are also energy production, industry and water supply for housing (let's think of the citizens). The knots come to the comb, because for a long time as Movimento 5 Stars we talked, especially in the 13th Commission, about the need to change course. Climate change is real and we are experiencing on our skin the damage caused by a wrong economic model. That is why the ecological transition must be something real, not a slogan. It is therefore important to become aware of this, to ride the problem and to carry out real solutions. What will happen to the hydrogeological cycle with climate change is told by ISPRA. In the short term, if we continue not to avoid setting a limit on greenhouse gas emissions, we will have a further 10% reduction in water resources, while in the long run we are talking about 40%, up to 90% for the regions of the South, if we do not commit ourselves to curbing climate change. Global warming also increases the frequency of drought episodes with heat waves, because one study shows that the two phenomena go together; therefore, a climate at the same time hot and dry, like what we are having now and which we will have later, will have consequences for the whole community: forest fires, tree death and crop losses. We must also link to drought and climate change another phenomenon, namely the melting of glaciers, because what happened on Marmolada is linked to this. We have a problem of water resources and in recent months we have passed with the temperature: seven times we have exceeded the value of 10 degrees, with a peak of 13.1 degrees on 20 June. We have wasted too much time not only to save our planet, but also apparently to protect the health of our citizens. We have in fact noticed that the two realities are connected, because, if the environmental disaster grows, the social discomfort grows and increases and the two things are connected. As for the solutions that we hope will be included in a decree-law, for example we certainly need a strong push for the circular economy of the water: the reuse of the waste water. The Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA) states that 23% of waste can be used for reuse; so far we have only used 4% of it. Also the data of Utilitalia, the federation that unites the companies operating in the public services of the water, the environment, the electricity and the gas, speak of 9 billion cubic meters per year that we could use; we have 18,140 purification plants, of which 7.781 equipped with advanced secondary treatment, that could be strengthened in order to make them suitable for the production of water refined for the reuse, therefore for the agriculture, for certain types of harvests, and also for the industries. Then we have the use of water saving technologies. We can reduce waste to 43%. Mr Patuanelli also told us about precision agriculture, which is very important in order to start reducing water waste. We must carry out actions such as increasing the capacity of accumulation of invaders, giving priority to territories, building networks of small invaders for the storage of rainwater, waterproofing disused quarries and building structures to channel water. We have talked about the national water network, which has real problems. Istat tells us that 42 of them are lost for every 100 liters of water in the aqueducts. Let's also talk about decarbonisation, which is necessary, otherwise we can't go on. We need to reduce the emission of CO2, methane and fluorinated gases, abandon fossil fuels and focus on renewables and energy savings: green building, ecobonus to 110% and energy communities. Mr President, we must also review our uses and consumption of the water resource, which is an indispensable resource for our life and life on earth. In the decree-law of late July, therefore, we hope to find, in addition to the funds necessary to deal with the emergency water, rules to strengthen the Ministries and consolidate interventions in a perspective that is systemic, but above all with a governance that can carry out prevention, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, drought and water resource management. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u53	Mr President, as you know, as my previous colleagues have said on several occasions and as noted by all sectors and relevant institutions, climate change is having a heavy impact on the availability of water resources in the world, as in our country. The scarcity of rainy and snowy rainfall of the past winters and a summer that, once again, is turning out to be torrid, with temperatures well above average, raise concern and announce a particularly critical situation for different water basins, from North to South Italy, with a strong impact on productive activities, agricultural and not only. On the subject, Together for the future-Democratic Center in these days has presented, both to the House and to the Senate, a motion in which, in spite of the dramatic data of different Italian regions, the commitment of the Government is urged. Here I would like to add the data on Puglia, where unfortunately the areas affected by the risk of desertification represent 57% of the usable area and the bill paid by agriculture subject to climate change and drought is salty and equal to over 70 million euros. These data emerge from an analysis by Coldiretti Puglia on the situation of the Apulian territory on the occasion of the UN World Day for Combating Desertification and Drought on 17 June and on the basis of data from ISPRA, as already mentioned by the Minister. The artificial invades lack 80 million cubic meters of water compared to the capacity. According to data from the Observatory of the National Association of Bonifices and Irrigations (ANBI), it is the reduction of yields of wheat and other cereals, but also that of fodder for the feeding of animals and vegetables and fruits, which need water to grow. Some artesian wells are shattered, while other superficial wells are disappearing and drying up. A strong concern, even of a critical situation, is the fires, favored by the high temperatures and the absence of precipitation, which dried up the land in the fields and in the woods most exposed to the flames. Especially in Salento, where abandonment is widespread due to the propagation of the xylella bacteria, this phenomenon has dried the olive trees, making the surfaces more at risk. The drought, which destroys the crops and favors the fires, has now become, every year, the most important calamity for agriculture, which coexists with a real water paradox, torn apart by frequent drought phenomena and, at the same time, by floods and torrential rains, which cause flooding, but which fail to compensate for the serious lack of water, in a situation in which, with the emergency Covid-19, the water is central to guarantee the food supply of the families. It is therefore urgent to take all initiatives to increase investment in technology research, to improve water storage and saving and to provide information on the state of the watercourse renewal activities envisaged by the PNRR. In the same way, it is urgent to take initiatives aimed at simplifying the procedures necessary for the implementation of the actions envisaged and financed by mission 2-component 4 and to establish a financial instrument complementary to those already foreseen for the establishment of a plan for the realization of small invades for the collection of rainwater diffused on the territory to be allocated both to the irrigation use, and to the fire service. Urgent and important also seems to promote awareness campaigns on water saving, as well as activating measures and projects with the aim of increasing the capacity for purification and reuse of waste water. I would like to mention here, Minister, one of the many projects that are being developed and which must be taken into account, because they aim to save water, increase irrigation capacity and increase the availability of food for families. The one proposed by Coldiretti Puglia and ANBI, for example, provides the realization of a network of small invaders with low landscape impact and spread over the territory, favouring the completion and recovery of structures already present. The project is to create ponds without concrete use and in balance with the territories to conserve water and distribute it when it is needed by citizens, industry and agriculture, with an important impact on the environment and employment. Minister, you have referred to substantial funds which will be allocated through a forthcoming decree. This can certainly reassure the farmers, but not only, all the more so because this Government will continue with a sense of maturity and responsibility precisely for the fact that it has to provide other funds, as you have already pointed out in your information. I conclude my speech with a very significant thought by Nelson Mandela: water is a basic right for all human beings; without water there is no future. Access to water is a common objective and a central element in the social, economic and political fabric of the country, the continent and the world. Water is democracy. The future of water is in our hands: we just have to help preserve it to ensure the future of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u54	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u55	Minister, we have listened carefully and with concern to what you have come to report to us this afternoon. Of course, however, the desperate cry of alarm from farmers surpasses all our discussion and disquisition. Farmers are already on their knees by the great speculation of the increase in raw materials, by the increase in diesel oil, by the shortage of labour and by the climatic changes that are now being structured and are devastating crops and crops. The farmers themselves are abandoned both by national and Community policies, because most of the support to deal with this serious crisis derived from the causes and causes that I have previously listed is directed to magical organizations and infrastructures, as I have defined them, without any repercussions on those who produce, on those who break their backs in the fields, on those who take on the entrepreneurial risk and on those who no longer sleep at night. These policies for large groups in the sector can be found in the PNRR, but above all in the new Community agricultural policy (CAP), which allocates all the funds to large producer organisations (OPs) and associations of producer organisations (AOPs). Those who produce and those who actually do agriculture are not even recognized the cost of production for their products, which are punctually underpaid on the fields: it is truly a shame. Returning to the plague of drought, which is also linked to a reference made by other Members here in this House, I wonder and ask you, Minister, whether the plans for the invasions presented by the reclamation and irrigation consortia, which were already declared admissible about two months ago by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, have been evaluated in the light of this serious water crisis or if they are dated, because they were in the drawer, and inadequate to solve the serious problem that is decimating national agricultural production with an estimate of 40-50 percent. The risk, Minister, is that we waste the opportunity of the PNRR with cathedrals in the desert, as has always been the case in our nation. In any case, if these projects were virtuous and adequate, they would be carried out in 2026 and I would also like to put a question mark on that date. The farmers, therefore, in particular those of the Copoi (the Coordination of Italian fruit and vegetable producers, which has been created spontaneously at national level, of which I am the contact person in this House), who are now on their knees and exhausted by everything we have said and by what you, Minister, know better than I do, call for immediate solutions and instruments, because we cannot wait until 2026 or 2027. Today there is a water crisis and it must be faced today. We therefore need immediate instruments and solutions to combat this serious water crisis and this drought, which, to look at the weather forecast, as another colleague mentioned earlier, is destined to persist, has not ended here, since we will have a particularly hot summer. I therefore ask you, Minister, what is the short-term solution, because I have not heard of it in your report, even though the technicians should have identified it, in order to prevent the whole harvest from being really lost. What help, then, and what support for those who produce food and fill the shelves with markets and supermarkets? Farmers - unfortunately, I have a bad habit of going to the fields and ports and talking to farmers and fishermen - are calling for short-term solutions. For example, they are asking and, through me, Minister, they are asking you to simplify the procedures for the use and modernisation of wells, where compatible and where there are no different constraints. Furthermore, as Mrs La Mura suggests - because, Minister, in this House there are skills and professionalism, but on time they have not been used or valued - that water and rivers are meant to be, by relaunching a proposal of the Italian River Redevelopment Centre (CIRF), which promotes the storage of water in a layer, one might think of storing rainwater and conveying it to the slopes, to the natural places that nature has given us. In the meantime, while we are building the invaders, in fact - and you, Minister, who are an engineer, understand what I am saying even better than I do - years have passed. This would certainly be a faster method than the realization of pharaonic works, which have perhaps been entrusted to bodies that are already full of debts and that cannot even finish those that were assigned to him ten or fifteen years ago. We must also consider this aspect: the competence and capacity of the bodies to which we are going to give the money of the PNRR, to see if they are able to carry out the works that Italian agriculture needs. This proposal would be easy to implement, without having to wait for years, because the country needs an answer today. Crops, agriculture and food production need a chance today. This solution would immediately give the possibility to keep the still scarce rainfall longer, limiting the dispersion of rainwater, even towards the sea. I hope, Minister, that politics in general and you in particular, because I am a member of this, when it comes to these sensitive issues, which have an immediate impact on the lives of farmers, on agriculture and on the production of food, also listen directly to farmers and fishermen. In fact, while it is true that there are representative associations, many times the narration they make, Minister, and I assume responsibility for what I say, does not correspond to the real situation of those who really produce and the first link in the chain. I shall conclude by thanking you, Minister, for listening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u56	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now getting used to climate change, a dramatic phenomenon which is the result of man's unholy action, the pollution of the oceans and the atmosphere and deforestation. Today we have a duty to manage this phenomenon with concrete and immediate initiatives, because the effects, as we have seen above all in these days, can no longer be denied: they are devastating. Just remember the recent tragic event in Val di Fassa. Well, all the leaders of the political groups and all the governments of all states, with the help of experts, must put the problem first on the political agenda and consider it no longer as a topic of the few, of the environmentalists, but as a global emergency to be solved, without ideologies and without populism. Today, in particular, the issue is that of drought. This is also an extraordinary emergency, told especially in these days because of the intense heat and highlighted by alarming data. As you yourself have pointed out, Minister, these are numbers which really give rise to an alarming feeling and which come from a more general figure. Over the past thirty years there has been a 19 - percent reduction in water available. We can give examples. Let us remember the fact that the lake Maggiore is filled, which stops at 32 percent, or that of Lake Como, which stops at 53 percent, but not only. Let us also think of the images of the dry rivers like the Po, which we have seen for some time now flowing on the media, or of the fact that the rains of these days have had virtually no effect, given the gravity of the context, and indeed, in some cases, they have been a further damage to the crops, where they have turned into real clouds. The lack of water is particularly affecting farmers, who are therefore in great difficulty. Coldiretti's data are alarming, recording a decrease of 10,000 hectares of rice seed, which needs more water, in favour of soya, with an economic, employment and environmental impact. They are concerned about the reduction in crop yields such as wheat, which this year marks a 15% drop in crop yields. The crops of sunflowers, corn and other cereals are also in difficulty and the fodder for the feeding of animals, vegetables and fruits that need water to grow. Coldiretti always brings to light another dramatic fact that it binds to the emergency drought. Warm, drought and man's hand promote fires, which this year in Italy have already grown by 153 percent compared to the historical average, with incalculable damage to the environment, agricultural production and biodiversity. The regions most affected are always the same, that is those of the South and especially the islands. I would like to recall in particular the emergency fires in Sardinia, where every year we lose thousands of hectares of forest, creating situations for potential floods, such as the one that hit us in 2013 and of which we still mourn the dead. But I also remember last year's fire and Minister Patuanelli's visit, given the seriousness of the effects. There is still one thing to think about: every burning costs the Italians 10,000 per hectare, between immediate expenses for the shutdown, the reclamation and those in the long term on the reconstitution of environmental and economic systems, over a period of time that reaches fifteen years. This situation aggravates the damage caused by heat and drought and has now exceeded EUR 3 billion. In addition, the heat and drought are the ideal conditions for the invasion of grasshoppers. The rains in fact serve to destroy the eggs before they hatch, but this year in Sardinia and Romagna because of the drought we have witnessed real infestations, with considerable damage to the crops. The farmers have been left with nothing and the land has been devastated; the regions have already had to compensate for the damage. Well, for the future, if these temperatures become the rule, we will have to think of concrete and effective prevention measures. But drought is also something else: it means higher diseases and bills for citizens because of the cholabrodian ducts that should be restored. I would like to remind you that in 2016 the Government led by Matteo Renzi had proposed concrete ideas and actions to prevent the phenomenon of drought, making available 8.4 billion to spend in this sector, with the project - let's remember - entrusted to Renzo Piano. But nothing has been done: the yellow-green government, led by Giuseppe Conte, has in fact thought well to cancel the unity of mission. It was certainly an unforgivable mistake that resulted in damage to the country, as we can see today. When you govern, you always have to think about the common good by focusing, however, on the quality of the proposals. Government responsibility is a serious matter and cannot become a whim and sometimes cancel the work of those who were there before. It is precisely the responsibility and seriousness that must be appealed to in these hours. It's been complicated months, Minister. It's months of drought, war, famine, inflation. The challenges to be faced are many, with courage, with determination, with the leadership of this Government by President Draghi. Mr. Minister, you mentioned a structural plan. That's right. He also spoke of urgent measures to be adopted by the end of this month. Then you don't understand it well, because then in reality it also talks about other initiatives and actions that can really get out of hand. For this reason, every action, every word said, every threat against this Government has nothing but the will to harm Italy and the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u58	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u59	Mr President, I begin my speech with a political consideration. I, like Senator Ferrari, believe that a national strategic plan to address such an important issue as water must be done with a strong and legitimate government. Therefore, I invite the Movimento 5 Stars to maintain the position and to pull the plug on this Government, so that you can go and vote and finally have a government serious and legitimated by the ballot box. [[Applause]] So, we're perfectly on the line. In order to return to the subject of information - and I thank the Minister for his always precise and timely participation in the work of the Assembly - it would seem strange that a nation like ours, where there is more rain in Europe and there are more waterways, we should discuss a water crisis. We have 7.596 streams, 1,242 of which are rivers, and we have 342 lakes, not to mention the fact that the Italian peninsula is bathed on three sides by seawater, with the opportunity therefore to act as they do in certain parts of the world, in which salt water is transformed into fresh water to be used for many purposes. However, this water crisis is only part of the crisis that is affecting agriculture today, partly because perhaps the strongest blow that has been struck by our farmers has been the increase in traction costs, those relating to fuels, which have seen fishing and agriculture as a real waste, on which we have not yet managed to put a piece of equipment and which sees the great concern of their operators. The problem of the water crisis is also a major one, because 85% of agri-food production comes from irrigation crops. I remember that the use of water for agricultural purposes exceeds 60%, while that of industry and energy is 25% and civil use - as Mr La Pietra rightly mentioned - is between 10% and 15%. By the way, at a time such as this ecological transition supposed or at least begun, the water resource represents 40% of the green energy of this nation. But, precisely because of the drought, energy losses are estimated or in any case decreases of an equally 40%, thus placing a problem of type not only irrigation to the crops, but also energy. I say this, among other things, as mayor of a coastal municipality, a municipality that has a portion of the lake for which it emerges annually the difficulty to match all the requirements from the water point of view: the industrial one, the tourist one, the food one and the agricultural one. Every year mountain lakes are severely penalized by a form of withdrawal, a little for agriculture and a little for energy, demonstrating how the blanket is already short during normal years and not only during the years of the crisis. He rightly mentioned the Minister in 2003, 2007 and 2017, almost a five-year plan, which is actually missing from us, partly because drought, or rather drought problems, has caused damage for about 15 billion in the last twenty years. Today there is the ballet about the cost of the water problem of 2022: the Minister cites 3 billion, some 4.5 billion, but in short it is of this order, with sectors penalized much more than others; think about the conditions of rice in Biellese and Vercellese, but also in the Po Delta. Products such as Carnaroli rice, Arborio and others are clear examples not only of excellence, but also of biodiversity, whose valorization and care are one of the objectives we have set ourselves, not only for environmental but also economic purposes, in order to enhance those products that cannot be replicated in another part of the world. The problem is wide and the premise I have made demonstrates it, but the many speeches by my previous colleagues and, above all, that of the Minister also demonstrate it. Therefore, given the premises, it should also be possible to give concreteness to the possible operations that we should do in order at least to try to alleviate the situation: out of about 4.5 billion PNRR only 400 million are dedicated to new invaders, which according to many operators, including large trade associations and agricultural associations, would represent a good start to make sure not only to have water always available, but even to reverse that trend that Italy sees resounding taillight compared to those nations that manage to use the waters. Veneto even, my region, is the one that has the ability to recover water only at 5%, even 7 points below the national average. And this is a huge problem, especially for a region with a strong agricultural vocation. Then there are the millions destined for the modernization and efficiency of irrigation systems. In recent years, it has been farmers who have made innovations on these systems. It is also true that in our country there are not only large farmers: there is also a galaxy of small entrepreneurs who may not be able, because of the size of their company, to access this type of contribution and, therefore, to improve their efficiency. I say all this because in Italy there are already 526 dams and 20,000 small invaders. However, despite such a deployment of forces and realities, the national average of the retained waters is only 11%. Minister, in my opinion, you should try to beat your fists a little bit in Europe in order to be able to increase the resources of the Next generation EU and achieve greater flexibility with regard to state aid. In fact, between de minimis and other issues, farmers, despite being able to benefit from certain contributions, do not actually land them. In a nation, then, with an exposure on the coasts so large, there is then to counter the salt wedge, that is the phenomenon for which inside our rivers enters for 20 kilometers salt water, thus depriving the irrigation capacity of the lands that are found near that water of a strong numerical component. We should therefore implement the construction of anti-salt barriers, consider - finally - the desalitors and understand, through the studies of the nations that have already made them, if it is now convenient and what the price will be that we will have to pay to have fresh water through the use of salt water. There are experiments in this sense. In Israel they have been doing this for a long time and diplomacy should work there to have available the technology that we do not have today and to realize, with a mathematical calculation, whether this is feasible or not. All of our colleagues have focused on precision agriculture. We must succeed in spending less and cultivating more. We must increase production - and not reduce it, as the Farm to fork would like - but at a lower cost. The ecological transition is done through technological improvement and not through the happy decline. Another important step is the recovery of rainwater. We can't imagine this nation without a serious rainwater recovery program. Minister, we have put so many proposals on the table, some of which are already on your agenda. You, unlike us, have a chance to put them on the ground. Do it not for you or this government, but for the nation's sake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u60	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u61	Mr President, I will try to limit my speaking time because I greatly appreciated the Minister's report and, therefore, I will not repeat some of the issues that I fully agree with. The point is very simple. As is apparent from the data from Istat, which the Minister mentioned, we have had three droughts in the last ten years, while since the post-war period until ten years ago we had none. It is clear that the main issue that we need to address - therefore, the main cause of these events, which are not misfortunes that happen by chance - is climate change. The whole area of the Mediterranean is invested in full by this phenomenon. All this is linked to the structural problems of the Italian water system, the other element to be considered, namely the combined arrangement of two themes: the major issue of climate change and the structural weakness of the Italian water system. I am referring to the uneven distribution of water, the high losses, the excessive dependence on surface resources, the fragmentation of management, the shortage of purification plants and waste. In 2020, 0.9 billion cubic metres were lost in the network, with a daily loss per kilometer of net equal to 41 cubic metres. These are the data and I would like to say that all the operations - including those proposed to privatise management in some areas - as has been seen from the data, have not produced any improvements, but have even aggravated the situation. As far as the issue of climate change is concerned, it is clear that we must equip ourselves not only for the adoption of measures. We started doing this and that's the important thing. What the Minister has told us today confirms that we are moving towards a series of interventions that not only address the emergence of this crisis, but also seek to protect and tackle the issue in a structural way. Mr Cingolani should be asked what happened to the climate change adaptation plan, in which the whole part of the issue of the water crisis, and in particular agriculture, is, in my opinion, one of the absolutely decisive and decisive elements. The issues that we think need to be addressed from a strategic point of view are primarily a list of priorities, because there are priority jobs and others that, in drought situations, can be avoided. Obviously, we need to foresee a sort of distribution hierarchy for the various uses, just in the face of a lower availability, which will unfortunately be a matter that will accompany us over time. The other issue is to intervene, from an infrastructural point of view, on all the problems concerning the inefficiencies of the network, which are no longer tolerable. We have a problem with the waste of the drinking resource, and not just water for other uses. This will be a growing problem if we do not act in time. In my opinion, then, we will have to start making choices more and more also in the agricultural field. There is a problem of choosing crops. We have crops that, in most cases, are not for food, but for intensive farms, even in that case with great waste of water. Therefore, we must begin to adapt our agricultural choices to phenomena that will accompany us - unfortunately, alas - for a long time and that will become a structural fact. Precise agriculture is also important; it is important to review the irrigation system and to recover for agricultural purposes, effectively and efficiently, purified waste water; it is important to be able to find all the best methods and make investments in this respect. I believe that structural measures are absolutely necessary from this point of view to make the whole functioning of the cycle efficient and the improvement of purification to reuse waste water and put in place a series of innovative purification systems; therefore innovation, of course, but always aimed in this sense. Another issue is the incentive system, Minister. We have done so in other areas and I know that the subject is at present very much debated, but we must put in place a series of water tax incentives, which concern construction and, more importantly, investment in agriculture. For example, we must make provision for obligations in all new projects, including renovation projects, rainwater recovery and the installation of all water-saving systems. I think this is absolutely crucial. Another issue is health in our rivers. We have a huge problem relating to a substantial part of our rivers in particular, rivers that have been extensively cemented, with all that this entails. That system prevents the retention of water, so we need - it is not a fixation of environmentalists - to intervene with processes of renaturalization, which can also bring benefits with regard to the possibility of holding water. As you can see, we must do a great job that has not been done in the past years - it has to be said - despite the efforts made and the reports made. The last issue concerns the problem of management fragmentation, Minister. We are perhaps dealing here with different positions, even within the majority. The district authorities have certainly been identified after the framework directive, but I think there is still a great deal to be done on that front. The fragmentation of management of all water resources prevents us from having a management which, in my opinion, needs absolute unity at this stage; otherwise, we will not be able to take that step forward. In conclusion, we do not fall in love with solutions that may seem easy, shortcuts, such as filling Italy with desalination plants, which is another hypothesis already seen. We must succeed in putting in place the adaptation plan to climate change, the agricultural adaptation plan, interventions that are very rational in a strategy that is to preserve the resource and to focus much on innovation for water saving, as well as on the recovery of all infrastructure deficits with regard to our losses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u62	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u63	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister for his information. We are faced with a situation - the previous speeches have made it clear - which presents the characteristics of the drama for the heaviness of the crisis that our agriculture is facing. First of all, we must consider the impact on crops: many crops will not complete the ripening process; many crops that have already been harvested have had losses from 20% to 40%, which is why we will have a very heavy impact on the keeping of accounts and the quality of our farms. Moreover, even indirectly, there is an increase in very heavy costs related to energy costs for irrigation. Finally - as has also emerged in the last few days in the hearings - we note the increasing incisiveness of various diseases caused by many parasites that, paradoxically, with the rise of temperatures, have a heavier impact on the crops and, therefore, will create more and more damage. Faced with this scenario - as previous speakers have already said - we need some immediate action. Therefore, it is essential that the decree-law that will be launched, on the one hand, contains really incisive interventions, able to put agriculture in a position to withstand this heavy stress; on the other hand, it puts in place all possible tools to deal with the month and a half that we still face, in which the amount of water available to agriculture will be crucial to save as many crops as possible than those still in progress during the season. We have, however, the need to look forward to what this year's renewed crisis has to say about the choices we have to make. As you said before, the reform of risk management must absolutely start - and do this well - in January of next year, because dealing with cadastral issues, as we shall have to do, will become increasingly crucial. If we had already this year a risk management of catastrophal events such as the one anticipated, we could probably look more serenely at the context we are facing. It is therefore essential that he leaves and does it well. Then there is the whole issue of strategic interventions on the horizon. From this point of view, I would simply like to make two observations: we need a National Strategic Plan (NPS) that is not yet another episodic plan. You rightly said earlier that we had an important allocation of resources on the last National Strategic Plan we had and on the PNRR. These are very important interventions, but they have the limit to be episodic. On the other hand, we need to have a horizon of five or ten years in which we know that there is a programming, because this puts the consortia in a position to plan, prepare the projects, organize themselves and not always wait for a kind of roulette, with the hope of being able to fit in to see financed the interventions. Moreover - as some colleagues have already said - we need interministerial coordination to enable us to govern these processes with a view to territorial strategy and to be able to do so by means of simplification. It is not conceivable - as it is happening today - that, in order to get to an important work, it takes ten or twelve years. [[Applause]] In my opinion, the times before us call for us to rethink the paths and decision-making processes to be implemented at a shorter time. I believe that, if we work with this strategic horizon, we will do good in the immediate future to overcome the criticalities of agriculture and, in a strategic vision, to put it in a position to look more confidently at the challenges that await it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u66	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems now a distant memory when two years ago the Presidents of the Region feared the red zone because of the spread of the contagions from Covid-19. We have often found ourselves in this House discussing the repercussions of such closures on the economic fabric and we have voted for measures to support the strategic sectors of our country. In the debate we have often concentrated on the agricultural sector, which since the beginning of the pandemic has entered the eye of the cyclone, unfortunately without being able to get out of it, for the closure of the hotellerie-restaurant-café sector (Horeca), the unfair competition of countries with lower production costs, the expensive energy, the expensive fuel (also and especially the agricultural one), the decrease of the purchasing power of the families and now, dulcis in the end, the drought, which - it must be noted - is the daughter of climate change, but also of a management not careful towards the indispensable resource par excellence: water. According to Istat data, the cause of water crises and difficulties in water supply is to be found in the factors of structural weakness of our water system: above all inadequate networks and old-fashioned infrastructure. It is thought that only in 2020 a billion cubic metres of water, 36.2 percent of all the water released into the network, were scattered in the provincial capitals networks. I believe it is unacceptable in the light of the crisis that we are experiencing today, but above all because of the awareness - as the Minister said earlier - that the lack of water is becoming, year after year, increasingly frequent, intense and prolonged. All right, then, the state of emergency and I hope that in the near future an ad hoc decree-law will also be issued, with respect to which I have a small suggestion. If one opts for the appointment of a commissioner, one should consider the possibility of an appointment of a sub-commissary from the agricultural sector, precisely to give the right importance to this sector, which is suffering. [[Applause]] However, we must also act in the medium and long term, if the objective is to protect the agricultural sector, but also all citizens. The Presidents of the Region, to whom all my solidarity goes, are now faced with new red areas, which will probably have - economically speaking - much more negative repercussions than the previous ones, because they affect the productive heart of our country system, and will condemn the farmers to the worst vintage ever. You said so yourself, Minister. Here you risk the national red zone, because no territory is at zero risk. It is sad to read about Regions, such as Lombardy, which plan to end water reserves within a few days. There is even talk of July 15 as the day when the Region will run out. On the other side of the Boots, in Calabria, where I come from, the situation begins to become critical, so much so that several municipalities have limited the use of drinking water, asking the state of natural disaster to the Region. Like Forza Italia, on 23 June, when the crisis was not yet of such magnitude - for which I thank the leader Bernini and President Tajani - we presented, together with our colleague Gallone and colleagues in the Snow House, Spena and Cattaneo, our drought plan, a real grand strategy for the protection of water resources, with short, medium and long-term measures. In particular, we call for the construction of new invaders, for which an amendment has been tabled, first signed Bernini, also to the decree-infrastructure law, using the project proposals of the reclamation consortia which - as you yourself said, Minister - are already in advanced definition. We also call for full and good use to be made of the money of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in particular measures for the protection of land and water resources: 4.38 billion to ensure the sustainable management of water resources throughout the cycle and the improvement of the environmental quality of inland marine waters; as well as 900 million to start the restructuring of the water infrastructure heritage, in order to reduce losses in distribution networks; as well as of course direct and immediate support to alleviate farmers, who once again have suffered great damage. Probably this money will not be enough to solve the problems definitively. That is why we are calling for a new recovery, which recognises the extraordinary situation created following the war in Ukraine, by allocating new resources to finance structural investments and guarantee the competitiveness of our agricultural enterprises in the long term. In 15 billion are quantified the damage to Italian agriculture caused by drought in the last two decades; 187 were the calamitous events in 2021, of which more than 70 percent related to water or its absence, which, in the first four months of 2022, increased by 29 percent. In the light of these data, I think we need to do this quickly. The last drop's been down for a while. The vase is now overflowing and the water inside is exhausted. We need immediate answers and concrete solutions. Forza Italia, also thanks to the work of the Undersecretary Battistoni, is determined to give it. We owe it to our farmers, the driving force behind our economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u67	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u68	Mr President, Minister, drought damage is extraordinarily important. We know that drought is not just a matter of this year for our country. We started from afar, at the beginning of the 2000s: in 2003 the first very serious year of drought; then 2017 and, in part, 2021 and now 2022, a very dramatic year. In the last ten years, the estimates were about 10 billion euros of damage due to drought in our country. Only this year we are already talking about over 3 billion, according to Coldiretti's estimates. This means starting immediately with an important mechanism, that of refunds to farmers, which must be compensated for these damages. But let us start with the measures that we are able to implement. We have asked, as the Lega Group, already in the last decree, the one on which we will have the confidence tomorrow, to include the extension for 20% of fuel costs as a tax credit; a measure which is included only for fishing, but which must also be provided for agriculture and for the whole year. Let's make things easy and that can be accomplished! [[Applause]] Indemnization, however, also means adding important measures for credit; implementing Ismea's guarantees; giving the opportunity to make liquidity more large for companies, for our 740,000 farms. Minister, we do not want to contradict you, but you made an important step in your speech and we have followed very carefully with reference to this notorious decree. Well, we're not on any side jokes. This decree should have been issued by the government for twenty days and so it was not. But above all you tell us that we will see whether this decree will cover - as I believe we have all read in this House - the commissioners and submissaries for the management of the water emergency. It now says that reference could be made to the structure of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I don't know if you're referring to Casa Italia or some similar structure, but I think if we activate these structures, we're not going anywhere. We need to give clear responsibilities to well-identified figures very carefully and to take the situation into their own hands and solve the problems. [[Applause]] Otherwise, drought in our country will not be just a question of 2022. There are the great theme of the cleanliness of the riverbeds; that of the recovery of the spaces of the invaders; the theme of the detachment of the basins, of the existing dams to be cleaned and of the increase of capacity. [[Applause]] In our territory there are structural problems and you know it well, because the 1980 studies said that in our country the need for invading had to be 17 billion cubic meters; to date we are at 11 billion cubic meters, but potentially the need for hydro has increased and we would need 20 billion for agriculture. So we're traditionally behind. In the Committee on Agriculture - as President Vallardi, who is sitting next to me, and the rapporteur, Senator Taricco know - we have started a path to discuss and analyse a national irrigation plan. But it is essential that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, take the situation into account. It takes a clear and orderly plan to draw up, but let's start with simple things, things that exist. We have seen that in these days the National Association of Bonifices and Irrigations (ANBI) has presented a plan to realize 223 small invaded, 655 million cubic meters of capacity, that could irrigate 430,000 hectares, for a value of 3,25 billion. Let's start with this. Let's start doing these things, because they become fundamental. [[Applause]] The ANBI has made this proposal, which may or may not be pleasing, because it is an expression of the reclamation and irrigation consortia, but it has an important value, because it is working very hard on it. In addition to this, there is also the National Union of Municipalities, Communities and Mountain Authorities (UNCEM), which has made five important proposals: efficiency, planning, encouragement, concert, the realization of these themes that come to the other side. In my opinion, there is a stimulus. It is true that there are problems. Just think of the mutual fund for catastrophal emergencies. Minister, this year, in our country, if only one farmer wanted to make sure for the drought, he could not do it, because no insurance company assured him; the farmers wanted to do it, but they could not. [[Applause]] Multi-risk insurance, which is very important, does not cover drought: unfortunately, it covers floods and other disasters, such as storm and wind damage, which is fine, but not drought. We know that on 21 July the company will be set up by Ismea who will manage the famous appropriation of 700 million euros per year, and then, through the SIN, will also partially enter the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies. What we are asking you, from now to the end of the year, is to activate this procedure - the Agriculture Commission and the House will agree with you - because we need clear answers on compensation to farmers. We cannot think that even in 2023 no one will be sure about the drought, because it means making a huge affront. I conclude, Minister, by quoting one of your words on "The Messenger" today: On the theme of water and drought I'm a little tired of a country that talks, talks and doesn't. You are right, but think: if the Minister is fed up, what do our voters - everyone - think and what do farmers think? [[Applause]] I therefore ask you for an enormous effort: to tackle the problem with President Draghi and with the Government, because otherwise the drought emergency will become a disaster for all Italian agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u69	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the drought we are experiencing is not a new situation: it is the sixth water crisis in the last twenty years; it is a structural issue dictated not only by climate change. Of course, the current data on drought are impressive and aggravate what is already a situation of great economic uncertainty, with regard to income, jobs and the great crisis that began first with the Covid and then with the war, which continues to afflict Europe as a whole. It is also to compensate for the damage of this war that farmers are being asked to respond to the further demand for food in order to avoid a large food crisis. However, without water it is not possible to cultivate and respond to this alarm. The problem is, therefore, great and even more worrying is the delay in solving problems of a multiannual scale, which, of course, are getting worse with the passage of time. Not only is rainwater picked up for just 11 percent, but 40 percent of this is dispersed into the national water supply for a thousand reasons over the 24,000 miles of pipes. Therefore, a national water plan is essential, with a strong investment in reducing losses and increasing their collection, creating a number of basins that also have the purpose of filling the ground floors. For these it would take particular monitoring, because in the slopes you draw water in an uncontrolled way, therefore from the artesian wells and from various other wells; it is therefore necessary a constant monitoring of the slopes. There is an endemic inability to collect rainwater that we need to solve. A quarter of the national rainfall would be enough to meet agricultural needs. Today we have the extraordinary funds of the PNRR, an appropriation of 880 million for the irrigation agrosystem, of which 360 will finance projects already in place, while 520 are for new projects. We need a real change from the past, because the deadlines set by European legislation are limited. We are proceeding with certificates of progress, which should however be simplified in the extreme need to avoid the delays that would cancel the funding and, in the end, farmers themselves would pay the highest price. The current emergency is compounded by damage to soil fertility, which - according to ISPRA - affects about 28 percent of the peninsula, mainly in the South, where in some cases exceeds 40 percent of the surface area. We are working on a decree on precision agriculture, which requires the diffusion of technological innovations able to safeguard precisely the productive potential in order to minimize the pressure on natural resources. It worries - and much - also the ascent of the salt wedge - as has already been mentioned - that is the rise of sea water in the river more than ten kilometers from the Adriatic coast, which in the long run can affect the slopes of fresh water. And unfortunately this is already happening. In view of the continuing droughtous years, we cannot continue to reason in terms of the state of disaster, but we must project ourselves into challenges for the future; we must start a necessary path towards bringing farmers closer to the insurance obligation against damage, in order to avoid always resorting to the Solidarity Fund, which is now always suffering. The reuse of waste water is certainly good, considering that next year European Regulation 741 of 2020 on the use of refined water in agriculture will come into force. Also the proposal of the plan of small invaders would respond to the need for aging of the waters through phytopuration. I shall conclude, Mr President. We speak of medium or small invades, without use of cement, on earth, which can collect water when they are in excess; slowly regenerate the invades and therefore pick up the water to use them when it is necessary. These are issues that concern the whole country and its sustainability. This is the great challenge that, if we all commit ourselves, we can win. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u71	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-452.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 14 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20:27.
