ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u4	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u5	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I would like to ask for a postponement of the debate on motions for resolutions on initiatives against high energy and motions on the crisis in cinemas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u6	We note this and thank you for your communication.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u9	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we agree with the Government representative's request to postpone the debate on the motions on energy and the motion for a resolution on cinemas, provided that the debate on these motions takes place within 15 days. It is clear that it is the Conference of the Leaders that sets the timetable, but yesterday as a majority group we felt and the intention is to want to deal with these two issues at all costs within and no later than the next fifteen days, because then we know that laws will come and there will be so many urgencys. We will therefore have to find time to discuss the motions on these two issues because they are both important. Therefore, we agree with the request, but at the Conference of the Leaders we will reiterate our commitment to schedule the discussions of the motions on these two issues within a period of not more than fifteen days. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you do not intend to ask for the vote? He placed a political condition. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u12	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we also do not ask for the vote on the request made by the Government. We agree with what the League's parent company has just declared, Senator Romeo. As group leaders, last week we decided to give space to these motions, we understand the need for this shift, but we reiterate the need - and we will do so in the next group leaders - to put the debate on the motions on energy and the crisis in cinemas on the agenda as soon as possible, precisely because we believe that Parliament can speak on both issues. Mine is therefore an intervention aimed at strengthening this position.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u15	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we also agree with the request for a postponement, but at the same time we call for the motions on the two issues to be recalendarised, as the parent Romeo has said, within fifteen days, because they are still very valuable motions. Therefore, in accepting the request for referral, we reiterate the need for these motions to be recalendered within fifteen days.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to add, in particular with regard to the motions on cinemas, the hope that the debate will be recalendarised and that it will take place with the presence of the Minister, given the importance of the subject. But in fact this also applies to the discussion of motions on the issue of energy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00487 by Senator Binetti and other senators, and 1-00504 by Senator Fregolent and other senators, on the national oncology level. I call Senator Binetti to explain motion No 487.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u20	Mr President, there are two motions on national cancer in the file which has been deposited and available to all Members, one at my first signature and the other at Mr Fregolent's first signature. These motions have been withdrawn, because they have been replaced by a unitary agenda involving all the majority forces and that will be what we wish to discuss and examine in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u21	Senator Binetti, thank you for that information. The Presidency would certainly have announced the presentation of a unitary agenda, but in any case it is good to have anticipated it. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u22	Mr President, in this speech I would like to make a few comments on the new National Oncology Plan. In the next speech I will make in an explanation of vote, on behalf of the Group for the Future Democratic Centre, I will emphasise other points that will have to characterize this Oncology Plan. Mr President, it is estimated that by 2035, cancer will be the first cause of death in Europe and the world. The figures are unambiguous. Statistical data leave no doubt in their harsh drama. Faced with 2.7 million cancer cases diagnosed in Europe in 2020, we have had 1.3 million deaths and an expected increase of 24% by 2035. Europe has activated concrete and consequential actions against what we can call an announced tragedy. It has therefore implemented the European Cancer Plan, planning and identifying the strategic objectives to be achieved and the related actions to be taken. Our country cannot wait and must necessarily recover lost time. Hence the need to have a new National Oncology Plan well structured in its multiform facets. We need to take common action, overcome prejudices and ideological foreclosures and work together. [[Applause]] The creation of a central steering booth, capable of coordinating regional actions and interventions and responding to the public's health demand, should be envisaged. The new Plan must contain the creation of appropriate structures, plan shared paths involving the regions and capillaries, raise the quality level of the structures, as well as enhance the skills and professionalism of the staff, progressively acquiring new, modern and sophisticated technologies. The essential condition is the need to offer a greater degree of homogenization throughout the national territory, both in the screening approach and in the diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation phase. True translational research must be carried out, i.e. the rapid transfer of data obtained through research and experimentation into clinical practice. And it is in this perspective that IRCCS (scientific research and care institutions) are included in which translational research finds the most advanced application. Research institutes will have to become more and more centres of excellence within regional oncology networks and the national oncology network. Research must no longer represent the Cinderella of our health care, but, on the contrary, it must be strengthened and adequately funded. Our researchers must no longer be forced to emigrate abroad after training in our country. The new National Oncology Plan, properly structured, must be based on some fundamental and distinctive points, first of all research and in particular advanced research, which must be increasingly included in an international context, with a continuous and fruitful exchange of information on the results achieved. Secondly, I think it is the prevention, with oncology screening, properly implemented, disseminated and accessible to all citizens. Another determining factor is a therapeutic approach of high quality standards and in line with the best European levels, including through the use of more sophisticated equipment and technologies. In addition, Mr President, I believe that rehabilitation and rehabilitation programmes are important, which allow the patient to be properly followed up and his psychophysical recovery with proper reintegration into our social and work structure. The prerequisites are all there, just have the clear ideas, invest with conviction and competence, implement the right programming and achieve the goals with stubbornness and will to do well. In conclusion, Mr President, there must no longer be A-series regions and B-series regions, but a single national oncology plan. The tumor is won and defeated only by working together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u23	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u24	Mr President, in this speech I would like to talk about the people who have recovered from cancer. Today in Italy there are 3.6 million people living with a diagnosis of cancer, one million of whom are to be considered healed: they have had treatment, have not relapsed and no longer need treatment. The future perspective is of an increasing number of people who will survive and live after a diagnosis of cancer thanks to science, medicine and the implementation of the European oncology plan and the Italian oncology plan which is the subject of this motion. It is very important, because even today people cured from cancer are identified with their disease. It happens because in Italy there is no law on the right to be forgotten, that is, there is no right of former cancer patients not to give information about their previous illness, the type of cancer they have had, the age of the onset of the disease and therefore the right to be considered cured in all respects. Today in Italy, former patients are discriminated against, because they have difficulty in entering into bank contracts, mortgage contracts, insurance contracts and life insurance, because information about their previous illness identifies them as risky customers. In Italy we are in a situation where the rules of actuarial mathematics prevent healed people from having the same rights as all other citizens. That is why in Italy we need a law: we need to approve this motion today and we need a law on the right to be forgotten. It also serves as regards adoptions: many of the former patients have undergone treatment that makes them sterile, yet we do not have an adequate law that allows them to adopt minors without having to overcome obstacles that are sometimes truly insuperable. We want people who have been healed to return to normal life. That is what the European oncology plan says, as the European Parliament's recent report says, and that is why five out of 27 countries in Europe have already ruled. France was the first of all, already in 2014, and revised the legislation recently, on 1 June of this year, providing that after five years after the end of treatment patients should be considered to be fully cured. They have regulated the Netherlands, Portugal, Belgium and also Italy has the possibility to adopt legislation. There are three bills, signed by Conzatti, Binetti and Boldrini, filed in the Senate Justice Commission, waiting to be approved, guaranteeing a future free from the stigma of the disease to all people who must be considered healed, who have suffered, have fought against the tumor and have won their battle with life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u25	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u26	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, just over a year ago this House voted unanimously on an agenda which committed the Government to taking steps to urgently adopt a new national oncology plan and a number of other important initiatives in this area. We considered it essential to act promptly, given the seriousness of the problem. Since the beginning of the pandemic, in fact, many citizens had had to deal with the repercussions on the National Health System: delayed surgeries, scanned examinations and specialist visits, hospital departments that could not cope with the normal daily activity and today the spread of the omicron variant risks creating a new pressure on hospitals that could have new negative effects on the whole system. This is what we called a pandemic in the pandemic, in the sense that it involved thousands of patients who had cancers just in the most dramatic year that health has ever faced and many other cancer diseases that could not be diagnosed and treated in the best way in the absence of screening, prevention and control visits to combat them effectively. In this context, inequalities have been accentuated between citizens who have been able to access and use private health and those who have not been able to access it. For this reason, it is important that the commitments entered into by the Government do not remain on paper, but above all we must note with regret that many have remained unenforced, in particular the National Oncology Plan that has only recently been returned to the Regions. We therefore have a duty to act immediately, starting with the European Oncology Plan, which provides for funding of EUR 4 billion for Member States that will transpose its principles through on-line planning and in accordance with the timetable set out in the plan. Among the increases in the PNRR health fund, other European funds and some resources bound by other plans, the resources have been allocated. Now it is necessary to implement and complete the steps taken to give timely and concrete responses to cancer patients by first filling the disparities between regions in the completion of regional cancer networks. In the coming months we will have to make the greatest effort to restore the future to these patients through the strengthening of territorial networks, the strengthening of home care, the modernisation of the technological equipment, diagnostic screening, surgical activities for radiotherapy, the enhancement of digital health and everything that is needed, in essence, to deal with the various oncology diseases. But let us not forget that these patients and their families, as well as health care, need emotional support, as provided for by the essential levels of care (LEA), which helps them to contain the pain of the soul and the fragility of having to face a disease that puts life at risk and provides for the crossing of painful therapies. In this sense, we need a multidisciplinary approach to each patient and invest in personalised medicine and territorial assistance, because only a Community idea of health will ensure that all people face their health needs and find the best answers. This also means improving the relationship and coordination between the hospital and the territory so as to enhance territorial assistance and proximity medicine, also decongestant many improper accesses to the hospital and emergency room in particular. I conclude, therefore, by stressing that it is necessary to intervene on the accompanying services after the therapies; which means, on the one hand, to learn to live with scars or profound irreversible changes of the body and, on the other, to rebuild one's existence with new life plans for the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Stable. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are all now aware of the shortcomings of our National Health Service due to the cuts made for many years. In rebuilding the health service, an important chapter is represented by the oncology sector. It is important first of all because they are very frequent pathologies - still one of the first causes of death - and because they are increasingly preventable and curable pathologies. Science really takes giant steps in this field. Hence the need and long-awaited need for a National Oncology Plan. There is the European plan; the regions have received a draft national oncology plan, which of course takes into account all aspects of oncology: from prevention, therefore, one-health approach - we also start from the environment - to early diagnosis, treatment, all technologies, rehabilitation, social aspects, the reintegration of which other colleagues have also spoken. The current draft plan addresses all these aspects. Why, then, the motions? For two fundamental reasons, first of all the urgency. We have been waiting for this plan for a long time and in the meantime, after the years of pandemic disease and still, they continue to suffer delays: in diagnosis, treatment, often no rehabilitation, so it is urgent that we get to the problem. The second point is concreteness, which is certainly not lacking in the European Plan that establishes resources, funding and timing, but we cannot say the same thing about our draft plan. It is therefore important that concrete action be taken, with feasible and measurable projects. It occurred to me what was discussed about a year ago with the first drafts of territorial medicine reform related to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that brought good intentions, such as bringing care as close as possible to the working and living environment of people, but, in reality, at a first reading, there was really little concreteness. In fact, a series of doors and structures were opened without an overall vision, and above all with very little attention to the staff. For those who did not know, I remember that only two nurses were expected to be employed for each house in the community; for the rest, the system would have had to work in essence with the existing staff, with doctors of general medicine even decreasing. The hope also in this field is to resume the concreteness, as well as the urgency, therefore, certainty of funding, clarity on timing and above all - in general, not only for oncology - bring attention to the staff. We know that not only patients but many of our doctors - I think someone has already mentioned this - often migrate, find better working conditions elsewhere, often abroad, because here they are forced on massacred shifts, and surely the pandemic has exasperated this condition. If we do not intervene on these aspects too, we risk finding ourselves in this field with a wonderful document on modern oncology, drawn up according to the principles of one health - a health that includes the environment, people and animals - but in practice with citizens who will still for a long time have to deal with waiting lists of often intolerable dimensions: weeks, months, perhaps not for oncology, but also years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u30	Mr President, the agenda we are debating is a very important step forward in combining research and innovation in oncology with prevention and care and, at the same time, in filling the delays accumulated in the last two and a half years of pandemics in the interventions in election and screening with the related costs, before all the important commitments required of the government at national oncology with what is essential to its realization: that is, the economic and financial security of the regions, which must ensure appropriate and timely interventions in terms of responding to the needs of citizens, at a time of extreme vulnerability of people and families. The commitment on which we incite the Government is consequence of what had already been promoted by us in April and accepted in the context of the conversion of Decree-Law No 24, with the unanimous approval of the agenda of the same topic last May, still unimagined, since so far the deficit that has been generated in the various Regions during the pandemic, estimated at over five billion, although not all spent with shared outcomes, but certainly the emerging situation has not given the possibility to the Regions to do otherwise. Therefore, contrary to other occasions, the justification for the request for sterilization of the related costs is absorbent and cannot be separated from the reclamation and therefore from the recognition of adequate resources. Last but not least, there is the impact of the higher energy costs of healthcare companies; we are all experiencing it with the expensive bills, which is generating inflation that has not been so violent since the late 1980s. I hope that you will all agree and that you will all share and vote accordingly, not only the majority, but including opposition, of which we have had great responsibility in sharing in the Commission the insights into the risks assessed in the possible technical prescription of return plans. Last note, not self-celebrative. I would like to draw the attention of all of you to our first draft law to reduce the VAT rate for goods and services for non-self-sufficiency and fragility to 5%. [[Applause]] , in order to promote the homelessness of patients, supporting people and families in a logic of mutual help and self-responsibility, which feeds on the responsibility of the State in finding the resources necessary for the protection of LEAs and vulnerabilities, not only oncology. As well as - I conclude, Mr President - we are rightly debating approving the reduction of excise duties on fuels over a certain level of costs. Believe me, the support of fragility is no less important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u31	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it has actually been more than a year since 13 April 2021, when this House unanimously adopted two motions very similar to those we are discussing today and which called for the implementation of the National Oncology Plan. Not much has actually been done a year later, but in this year we have seen, as the previous speakers have reported, another outbreak after that of Covid. I am referring to an oncology epidemic, which has seen an exponential increase in the incidence and diagnosis of cancers and, above all, the diagnosis of advanced cancers. During the pandemic, in fact, having suspended all the ordinary performances, we sacrificed especially the prevention and the many screening interventions. In 2020, there were 1.3 million deaths from cancer in Europe, compared with 2.7 million new cases; it is estimated that by 2035 cancer will become the first cause of death in Europe, with an increase of 24%. In Italy every day we diagnose 1,000 new cases of cancer; there are 3.6 million Italian citizens living with the diagnosis of cancer and almost a million people who have healed from cancer. Today, therefore, we are asking not only to adopt the National Oncology Plan, but also to work on an extraordinary recovery plan for oncology, for all the oncology performance that has been postponed, especially from screening and prevention, which continues to be the most powerful weapon we have in the oncology field. On the unitary agenda that we have presented, thanking Senator Binetti and all the colleagues from the 12th Commission that worked on this text, we wanted to include another reference to the Ministry of Health so that finally the implementing decrees of what was one of the first laws of parliamentary initiative that we approved in this legislature: Law No 29 of 2019, which establishes the National Network of cancer registers and which still awaits the implementing decrees. [[Applause.]] That law serves to finally have a picture of the tumor incidence throughout the national territory, to understand what tumors there are in a specific area of the country, so what screening and what is the most suitable prevention technique to offer to citizens living in that area. If we say that prevention is an important weapon, we must also make sure that we identify what kind of prevention is to be carried out in the country. The pandemic has clearly shown us that in emergencies that pay more are mostly the fragile and in this emergency to pay more among the fragile there are certainly the many cancer patients. Starting also from the lessons that the pandemic has given us and from that very important instrument that are the 209 billion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we must also reform health and health care from two pillars. The first is digitisation, not just as a new technology, but as a better service to citizens: offering better services to cancer patients means, for example, inviting screening no longer with a letter that comes home in paper format, but through digital tools. We saw that during the pandemic it worked sending messages to communicate the results of the swabs; even for screening we must use these digital tools. The second pillar is the strengthening of the territorial network. Improving the quality of life of cancer patients also means ensuring that they have access to prevention, therapies, follow-up near home, near the place where they live. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u33	The debate is closed. I communicate that the agenda has been presented G1, signed by Senators Binetti, Parent, Boldrini, Fregolent, Cantù, Errani, Pirro, Laniece, Rizzotti, Stabile, Siclari, Doria, Lunesu, Marin, Biti, Iori, Castellone, Marinello, Mautone, Pisani Giuseppe, Gallone, Aimi, Vono and Caligiuri. The text is in distribution. I would ask the presenters to confirm that motions 1-00487 and 1-00504 are consequently withdrawn. Senator Binetti has already confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u34	I confirm, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u35	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u36	Mr President, the proposals and objectives set out in the European Plan for the fight against cancer are incorporated and are fully implemented in the National Oncology Plan, a planning document and a guideline for the prevention and fight against cancer 2022-2027 drawn up by the Ministry of Health and transmitted on 14 June 2022 to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Department for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, for the purpose of the agreement in the State-Regions Conference. This department has scheduled for July 8 a technical meeting to acquire possible observations from the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The drafting and definition of the document continued to be consistent with the objectives of the 2021 European Cancer Plan and identified, for each area, objectives and policy lines to be pursued, accompanied by some monitoring indicators. The National Oncology Plan is developed according to a global and cross-sectoral approach, including the improvement of the integration between prevention and early diagnosis, taken care and of course care, as well as prevention and early diagnosis of relapses, starting from the concept that the patient is at the centre of the activity and paying attention to the reduction or elimination of inequalities in access to prevention and treatment interventions. In particular, the document addressed themes related to epidemiology, cancer registers and information systems on cancer, research and innovation, both with regard to molecular diagnosis and characterization with prognostic and therapeutic purposes, to vaccine, cell and gene therapies and to all new technologies (precision radiotherapy, etc.) and to the issues related to digitalization in oncology and technological renewal of equipment. More specifically, the document has given ample scope to initiatives to enhance research in relation to new acquisitions in the field of personalised prevention and early cancer diagnosis, scenarios generated by home research, image diagnostic technologies and therapeutic technologies, and multi-dimensional and multi-professional strategies of welfare processes. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the PNRR envisages an appropriation of EUR 50 million for rare cancers by 2026. I would also like to stress the importance of setting up the Molecular tumor board in regional oncologist networks and the identification of specialist centres for testing for extensive genomic profiling. With regard to the digital transition, the implementation of the different telemedicine services is also planned in the home setting. With regard to technological modernisation in the oncology field, the Plan pays particular attention to the renewal of diagnostic equipment and the training of specialists and non-medical health professionals. The document focuses on primary, secondary and tertiary prevention; for primary prevention it is planned to encourage communication on the correct lifestyles, starting from the school environment to the workplace. As for secondary prevention, about 80-90 percent of the Italian population of target age for mammographic and cervical screening and over 75 percent for colorectal screening were regularly invited before the pandemic. Alongside the activities of health promotion and prevention, largely provided for by the National Prevention Plan 2025, the new National Oncology Plan favours more and more home care and integrated with the hospital and the territorial services in order to avoid unnecessary and burdensome movements of the patient with the activation of access points for taking charge already in the phase of well-founded suspicion by the family doctor, other specialist or following screening courses. A large part of the document is dedicated to the path of the cancer patient with particular attention to the integration of the therapeutic diagnostic path, the continuity of care on the territory, the cancer networks, the national network of rare cancers to bring assistance for the patient suffering from rare forms of cancer and for fragile patients as well as rehabilitation for the cancer patients, palliative care, the development and implementation of psycho-oncology, the role of nutritional support, the follow-up, the quality of life and social reintegration of the sick, the long living cancers and therefore cancer cures. The plan points out that, confirmed by the diagnosis, the role of therapeutic treatment pathways (PDTAs) is fundamental, organised according to the hub and spoke model to ensure the overall take-up of patients at all stages. Fundamental to ensure equal access to care will be the activation in all regions and autonomous provinces of networks, the multidisciplinary and multi-professional collaboration of the groups responsible for the construction of therapeutic healing pathways with the involvement of patient associations as well as the implementation of telemedicine and the role of family doctors, pediatricians and community nurses. It will aim to rationalise the multidisciplinary path and centralise surgical procedures in high volume and specialization centers to ensure the optimization of the results of oncology treatments also in terms of quality of life. There is also ample scope for training and communication. Training measures are planned concerning welfare models, technological innovations, the indispensable aspects of humanization and respect for the person, recommending the definition of profiles of the role of healthcare personnel dedicated in terms of skills necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the diagnosis and treatment paths. At the same time, the importance of raising awareness of the involvement of the general population through information campaigns aimed at empowering citizens and increasing health literacy with regard to prevention, research and oncology assistance is stressed. Finally, the document underlines the crucial role of monitoring and evaluation actions as a shared objective between central level, Regions and Autonomous Provinces in order to bring the results of the strategies and policies adopted to a transparent perspective, but also to bring out possible criticalities and failures that can provide useful guidance for reorienting actions. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u37	Perhaps not giving the government representative back for a majority member is a good thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u38	Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. It is therefore expected that the PON will be accompanied by a monitoring and evaluation facility through the establishment of a directing booth that will involve, alongside the Ministry of Health, the Autonomous Regions and Provinces, also representatives of other Dicasteries, as well as Agenas, the Higher Institute of Health, AIFA, Istat, Inail, INPS, scientific societies and patient associations, with the aim of addressing the challenge of accountability, i.e. an assessment that allows to document and measure the impact that the PON produces in the processes in the system at central, regional and local level as well as - important point - in the health outcomes. For the next five years, the National Oncology Plan provides for precise screening, strategic objectives and dedicated resources. With a view to the continuous improvement of the take-over of the oncology patient, the State budget law for the financial year 2021 and multiannual for the three-year period 2021-2023 of 30 December 2020, No 178, Article 1, paragraphs 479 and 480, set up a fund of EUR 20 million per year for the reimbursement of genomic tests for early ormonosponsive breast cancer. As regards cancer screening, programmes organized for cervical, breast and colorectal cancer aimed at people of the age group considered to be at higher risk have been offered as LEA since 2001 and confirmed by the DPCM of 12 January 2017. The pandemic has led to serious difficulties for the National Health Service, including delays in screening. I shall now turn briefly to the screening programmes. In particular, there is a sharing of aims between what is proposed by the European Plan for the fight against cancer and what is foreseen in the National Prevention Plan 2020-2025, adopted by agreement at the State-Regions Conference of 6 August 2020. The PNP aims to strengthen health companies in the development of top-level activities, linking them to the needs of the local community and ensuring the integration processes between social and social health areas and between territory and hospital. In particular, the National Prevention Plan invests on the improvement of the offer of screening programs organized to overcome the prevailing criticalities in the Southern regions in terms of both coverage and membership. The NAP document plans initiatives to promote the implementation of regional oncology networks, including the IRCCS network, with a dedicated allocation of resources. In agreement with the State-Regions Conference of 21 September 2017, the national network of rare cancers was activated and its coordination was established at Agenas, including with representatives of the Ministry of Health, Regions and Autonomous Provinces, ISS, AIFA and qualified experts in cancer diseases, as well as associations operating in the oncology sector. The coordinating body was renewed on 7 May 2022 and is actively operating through three technical tables (one for each family of rare cancers), in order to define the national registry of the centres, its regional welfare variations, with the identification of users and providers, and coordination centres in each autonomous region and province. In the light of what has been said, I express opinions on the various items on the G1 agenda. I am in favour of points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. On point 8, however, I think it might be appropriate to replace the word "longer" with "longer." Extending, especially when it comes to cancer screening, means delaying. Then I would propose to replace the word "longen" with the expression "considering in screening programs the accumulated delays". I give a favourable opinion on points 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. I am in favour of point 18 if the following rewording of the device is accepted: • to evaluate the development of new training paths for the acquisition of specialist skills for the new roles required by the reorganisation of welfare networks • to evaluate the development of new training paths for the acquisition of specialist skills for the new roles required by the reorganisation of welfare networks • to evaluate the development of new training paths for the acquisition of specialized skills. I am in favour of points 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. I am in favour of point 26 in accordance with budgetary constraints. I give a favourable opinion on points 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32. I am in favour of point 33 if the following rewording of the mechanism is accepted: The opinion is similar to the opinion on points 34 and 35. I am in favour of point 36.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u39	Mr Undersecretary, in summary, you gave a favourable opinion, with a request for reformulation on a number of points. I ask Senators Binetti and Fregolent if they accept such reformulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u40	Yes, Mr President, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Sileri.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u41	Mr President, I welcome the proposed reformulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u45	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I must thank my colleagues in the Health Commission, the rapporteur, Senator Binetti, and all my colleagues who have given us the opportunity to express themselves on such an important and sensitive subject. I listened carefully to the reply of the Undersecretary Sileri regarding the novelties of this new National Oncology Plan, which will surely go to accept the many indications (more complete than this one can not) contained in the motion to our examination. I would also like to thank you for allowing me, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, to supplement this document. I believe that the most delicate aspect is to recover lost time, which unfortunately this pandemic has taken us away. We all know how much patients who have been suffering from cancer in these two and a half years have been and unfortunately still have to suffer major delays in diagnosis and treatment. All the protocols are gone. There are interventions that, instead of being done within a few months, scale by almost a year. And we all know what it means not only an early diagnosis, but also an intervention done in an appropriate way from the point of view of timing. Therefore, I believe that this document can constitute a further solicitation, to the Government and the governments of the Regions to try to recover lost time, in terms of reorganization of the oncology network, but also simply waiting lists in this sensitive area. This agenda deals with some very important points: from diagnosis, treatment and advanced research. The new therapies, the radioligants and the therapies that come from the omic sciences, that is the sciences that study DNA and genes to get to create personalized therapies, are mentioned. By the way, I was reading a news release right now about the fact that colon cancer can now be treated with ablative immunotherapy, which is part of these therapies with monoclonal antibodies that would even replace 100 percent surgery and radiotherapy. Therefore, on the one hand it is right, which is done with this agenda, to urge more and more the provision of oncology therapies and the most advanced techniques; on the other, however, as I have pointed out with a small integration, it is very important to reiterate the role of prevention and primary prevention in particular. We all know how successful prevention is. In conclusion, emphasizing the importance of primary prevention also in this pathology, I believe that it is important to set up a policy of prevention on the territory, especially by the protagonists of health care who are the doctors of general medicine, but also more and more hospital doctors who integrate with the territorial figures. I hope you try to look at the patient from a multidisciplinary point of view. In a sense, perhaps, certain therapeutic medical pathologies (PDTAs) are overcome, because thinking about thinking about a patient only from the point of view of the pathology is reductive, since cancer patients are often diabetic, heart disease patients and chronic bronchopneumopathy. It is necessary to try to reconstruct models according to the integrated pathologies of care (PIC), where the patient is taken over by a multidisciplinary team and is seen no longer as bearing a unique pathology, but as a whole of a series of chronic diseases. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the unitary agenda by the Group for the Autonomous Regions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u48	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, cancer diseases unfortunately represent and will increasingly represent one of the most demanding health emergencies that our health system owes and will have to respond to in the coming years. We must not find ourselves unprepared, but on the contrary we must be ready and forward-looking. So here is the need for a new National Oncology Plan. The European Oncology Plan can and must be a starting point, obviously taking into account the different needs and needs of our country. Improving welfare levels will allow us to bridge the gaps, unfortunately still markedly existing between the different regions, which in particular penalise the southern regions of our country and the less well-off social groups. Such inequalities at the same time feed the so-called travels of hope: real health migrations that eradicate cancer patients from their own land and their own affections and upset the already difficult economic and psychological balances of their families. In this respect, the Plan will have to provide special attention to oncology and home care, the only real effective weapon in my opinion to reduce the number of accesses to hospitals and improve the quality of life of cancer patients, as foreseen by the PNRR objectives. It will be essential to implement and strengthen cancer screening programmes, which allow early detection of cancers. Prevention, as we all know, is a decisive weapon against cancer; diagnosing a tumor in early or early stages allows a better and more incisive therapeutic approach, often decisive, and this can make all the difference. Obviously in order to achieve this, it is necessary to use appropriate and increasingly complex instruments, high-specialization structures, such as the Institutes of hospitalization and scientific care, as well as increasingly improved professionalism both in new technologies and in the use of new therapeutic plans. Certainly the impact of the pandemic has made its deleterious effects on screening programs, almost completely suspended, but also on longer waiting lists, especially for surgery. The same oncology therapies have been guilty lately and slowed down. We need a clear and structured recovery plan, an extraordinary plan that allows us to recover lost time. It is a moral and institutional obligation to those who suffer, so that the oncology and oncoematology patient does not feel neglected or abandoned. It is finally necessary to implement in reality the law signed by Senator Castellone, unanimously approved by all political forces, which establishes the national register of cancers, which will allow to have the exact dimension of the oncology reality and the spread of cancers, their incidence in certain areas in relation to environmental factors present. The land of fires is a clear example of this. A plan that has an eye for the associations of cancer patients who have often begged and compensate for the organizational deficiencies of our health system and that with their psychological support and networking have made the cancer patient feel no longer alone, no longer abandoned. A Plan that enhances research, which has always been a key element in the fight against cancer, which increasingly optimizes the use of new technologies and new antineoplastic therapies, such as new innovative drugs, such as CAR-T therapy, the real new frontier of cancer therapy. In short, a Plan is needed to make overall care and care for cancer patients more and more equitable, accessible and efficient. On certain issues, the Group Together for the Future Democratic Centre will support and vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u51	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, every day in Italy a thousand new cases of cancer are diagnosed. Over the course of life, one in two men and one in three women will become ill with cancer. I quote only three figures, which are widely mentioned in our unitary agenda on the performance of this pandemic period: minus 36 percent of pap tests, minus 29 percent of mammograms, minus 34 percent of exams for the rectum. The indirect effects of the Covid pandemic on prevention, oncology and oncohematology are many: delays accumulated in the performance of screening, diagnosis, new treatments, oncology and oncoematology admissions and surgery. These data should move our consciences, we are faced with a medical, social and economic tsunami. That is why, in a unified manner, we are once again asking the Government, after the April agenda, to speed up and implement the National Oncology Plan starting from the European plan. We take note of the updates of Undersecretary Sileri regarding the National Oncology Plan, but we need to go faster, decide actions, deadlines and a chronoprogram. We are faced, colleagues and colleagues, with a paradoxical situation, with considerable scientific and technological progress on the one hand (CAR-T, innovative medicines, oncology instrumentation, personalised care) and, on the other hand, with delays, for example, in facilitating the use of advanced artificial intelligence to encourage adaptive radiotherapy, the increase of waiting lists, the regional differences that force patients to go from one region to another, the absence of legislation for the right to be forgotten for the cured, as Senator Conzatti said very well, to the implementing decrees missing for the National Network of Cancers. We are faced with this situation and the European National Plan defines for each action the resources to be used. Well, Undersecretary, we too must make a concrete analysis of the resources in a difficult framework, because the regions, as you know better than I, claim 5 billion lack of resources for what happened with the Covid, but not only, and with reference to the year 2022 we will have an increase of 2 billion provided by the budget law for the financing of the National Health Service. In our opinion and in my personal opinion, it will not be enough for the sustainability of the health system, in particular if we want to do everything you have described in the National Plan, so we need more economic resources for treatments, innovative therapies, rehabilitation processes and also taken care of the families of cancer patients, and to deal with the issue of waiting lists at chest and very quickly (a patient today cannot wait for a five-year plan). Again, to encourage integrated home care and guarantee that continuum of care between hospital and territory and vice versa, fundamental also for cancer patients. This is also in the light of the current National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which enhances territorial assistance both as a medicine of proximity to meet the needs of patients, and to decongestant improper access to the emergency room. Economic and financial resources are needed for a systematic plan for the prevention of cancer, from lifestyles to sport, to the fight against smoking, excessive alcohol and pollution. There is also a need for many socio-health professionals, especially in community homes - and it is the reform that the Government is carrying out - and for the training of social and health personnel. Do we have sufficient resources to train social and health personnel in all areas from basic doctors? We need to make the electronic health file real and true. Finally, each disease has social repercussions, so we need to anticipate more initiatives for the reintegration of cancer patients into work; we need to support the income of those with ancillary cancer costs. It is necessary to remember, at this point, that, from the obsolete vision of the war on cancer, we are to the most concrete, modern and important planning of healing and chronicization of the cancer sufferer. For this reason, my Italian Group Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano will vote in favour of the unitary agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u54	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to start with the last statement made by the Undersecretary, when he referred in his speech to the concept that the patient must be taken over by the National Oncology Plan. In our view, the agenda that is being adopted today certainly goes in the right direction, namely to remedy a serious deficiency in this National Plan, as my previous colleagues have already said, namely the lack of funds to take care of patients. Certainly, the approval of the agenda will not be enough to solve the problems, because the government must clearly state how much and what resources it intends to allocate to make this National Oncology Plan effective. The NAP we are talking about today is a good project, but, without time for implementation, without planning and without resources, it risks being a mere philosophical exercise, completely insufficient for those citizens who, at a delicate moment in their lives such as the fight against illness, would need to know that the State is at their side. On the other hand, it will happen that the Regions will say that they have no own resources and the citizen will have to pay the care of his own pocket, if he will have the money to be able to afford it. As a political class we cannot afford to create distinctions between social classes; we are called upon to intervene in order to make care a right of all and not a privilege for a few intimates. We know that much more needs to be done; in part, we are intervening with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as previous colleagues said, which, as we know, affects health for almost EUR 18 billion. Of these, a substantial part will go to the restoration of a territorial health called proximity health, with the creation of hospitals and homes of the community. However, what this National Recovery and Resilience Plan does not say is where we will find health, medical, nursing and social-health workers from here to 2026, when the new structures will potentially be available. This is the same principle as the National Oncology Plan: many projects for the care of the sick, but no clear indication of the resources allocated to the Plan itself. So we risk having empty boxes and that is a shame, because we cannot say that money is not there this time, given the billions of euros that will come from the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and also because the European plan to fight cancer, to which the PON is required to align, makes available EUR 4 billion. But in the document sent to the Regions in recent days - about which the Minister spoke a few minutes ago - there is no clear indication of the resources necessary to cope with the lack of training and the shortage of staff, in order to immediately activate the screenings in all the Regions, including those for the taking charge of the subjects to high risk heir-family, as requested expressly by the National Observatory of the screenings. At a time like this, when the recovery of Covid's infection seems to put the health of cancer patients at risk again, it is necessary to give a signal of reversal of trend. We cannot wait until 2026, with the full implementation of the National Plan, to give operational responses; we must act now, in particular to plan on cancer screening. Our hope is not to repeat the same mistake made with the National Plan, which was approved in a hurry and which could be done better, as far as health was concerned, giving space not only to the establishment of structures, but also to the formation of those who will have to manage such structures. With regard to the plan we are debating today, without these necessary elements, particularly related to resources, it will be completely useless; and that is why it must be changed, for the sake of those patients who struggle every day and who cannot rely only on their strength. It is for all these reasons that the contribution of Brothers of Italy will not fail to this National Oncology Plan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u57	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Sileri for the update he has made to our agenda, informing us of the new Oncology Plan and its process. I would also like to thank Mrs Binetti, because she has accepted the request from the whole majority to submit a unitary agenda. I think this is a good signal for patients who listen to us outside and know that we are very careful about these pathologies. We know - alas - that a tumor-oncology pathology affects so many of us, either personally or through a member of our family. I thank the Undersecretary. I believe that the steering booth is an essential point, because it allows monitoring with a view to evaluation and transparency and to controlling non-compliance with the correction of actions. I believe that this is a nodal point, because even now unfortunately we find a considerable heterogeneity in the activation of PDTAs and screenings; we are still a nation too uneven in taking care of patients. That is why we need a recovery plan for oncology and all oncology diseases, to fill the delays that have accumulated during this pandemic. It is necessary to provide assistance to cancer patients from diagnosis to surgery, throughout the journey, until healing, because re-acquiring one's life and rights is crucial. I remember that, out of over three million people who get sick, a lot of people live after a cancer diagnosis. We must ensure respect and quality of life for these people, both during the journey and afterwards. I also remember that the right to cancer oblivion is fundamental. In February we filed a bill at my first signature and then colleagues Binetti and Conzatti presented further draft laws on the matter. What does this mean? It means that we all care about the right to the cancer oblivion of our patients, beyond those who first presented the bill. So let us take a common front on this too. I would also like to thank the President of the Senate with all my heart, who has made the Commission aware (we have heard it by telephone), because I believe that this is a great act of raising awareness of a very important issue. However, ladies and gentlemen, with regard also to the national oncology plan and to everything that is linked to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we must consider the theme of homelessness, as foreseen in mission 6. I remember that cancer patients have to do oncology and they often have to go to the centres where they do it; at present there are good practices, which I would like them to be applied in all territories, in order to be able to do therapy even at home. This helps therapeutic adherence: in fact, know that many people, even elderly people, alone cannot go to them and rather give up, as a professor told me very dear to me. Therefore, if we can reach them at home (since we can now and the innovative protocols are there), let's do it: that's what we have to do. The services must reach the citizens: think of the most fragile ones, who have an oncology. Compared to the agenda, I would like to stress the theme of psychological support, because the path of treatment of an oncology has its ups and downs, especially when the exams are not so good. In that case, someone needs to take control of the situation from a psychological point of view in a holistic vision of the patient, not only of the therapy for the organ that has become ill, but also for the whole person. This would help the sick and his family. As I conclude, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if we do not do a good primary prevention, which is the main strategy for combating cancer, we do not get out of it. The National Environmental and Climate Risk Prevention System has been identified, and I think we should really focus on it: even if we see what is happening now with drought, I think that this is an issue on which we must focus. Finally, if we do not help the National Health Fund, we will not be able to support people's health by adding additional appropriations for human resources made up of structured professionals over time, so not with fixed-term contracts. We must invest in people's health and that is why I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u60	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we are very much in favour of this agenda, thanking Senator Binetti and all the colleagues who have worked on this important act of direction, which is very timely and concrete. I share and appreciate the considerations of the Undersecretary Sileri and the emphasis of many colleagues: from taking charge of innovative medicines, from screening to the National Network of cancer registers, to distortions and differences between the different regions. These are all right arguments, which we share and support, but, ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to raise two very urgent problems which seriously undermine the structure of the national health system. Really what is happening in many regions, in those considered more advanced and in those less advanced, is a serious problem, which requires an intervention now. I refer to the staff issue. We are in a situation that cannot proceed in this way, with first aid departments or entire departments of public hospitals contracted. We cannot proceed in this way, because this is a process which, in fact, as already denounced by the unions of hospital doctors and by several other structures, involves a creeping process of privatization of the system. We need urgent action. It is true that we have solved the problem of the training funnel, but it takes three to five years to bring this solution to order. Do we think we can handle these procurement processes of entire departments of the health system? I don't think so. A double track is needed, with an urgent measure that extends the possibility of use of resident doctors. I wonder what sense it makes not to be able to take retired doctors into the system, but to take them through the competition with cooperatives or private companies. It doesn't make sense. This is a very urgent problem. We need a measure now that puts the regions in a position to deal with this emergency. At the same time, it is necessary to build a plant which provides for a reform of the training system and which allows the other major priority to be put in place, as has been pointed out by others. I am referring to the issue of resources, from which we cannot escape not only because the regions demand from 4 to 5 billion euros and because 2025 is expected to have a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 6.2 percent (i.e. less than the one expected before the pandemic), but also because the choices of the PNNR require current expenditure. It applies to all: it applies to kindergartens and all the more to community homes. A strategy of reorganization of the financing system is therefore needed to make a qualitative leap, otherwise the words spent on heroes doctors remain crocodile tears and chatter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u63	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make an important remark on the unitary value of the agenda, not because all my colleagues in the Commission have signed it as an act of confidence in the work that has been done by a few, but because everyone has made a concrete contribution to the text, so much so that until yesterday I had a sort of harlequinade, with different colors that represented the contributions of everyone. This is the high expression of good policy and - let me tell you this - precisely because we are talking about a topic like health, it is also a positive indicator of the health of the majority. When it has a clear and strong goal, the majority share it with full maturity and responsibility. The other thing that seems important to me is that the Undersecretary has practically accepted all our proposals at 99.9%, which is also another positive indicator of the relationship between Parliament and the Government. We all agree that, in the face of what we could now call the great universe represented by oncology, cancer patients, those we want to protect in some way through prevention and those who are cured by oncology, in short, in the face of this "panorama," we need a change of mentality. Why am I talking about a change of mindset? We are all familiarizing ourselves with the English expression one health; health is a complex, composite and precious good, which must be pursued at 360 degrees. Today, from all the speeches of colleagues, it has emerged strongly that prevention is one thing, early screening is something else; with prevention we aim to prevent the event from being created cancer, with early screening we try to flush it out as soon as possible, to control it in the best possible way, with sophisticated, advanced and adequate technologies. Then there is the whole issue of the cure and here too, as we have heard from colleagues, we have extraordinarily advanced drugs, which even allow us to imagine a near future in which some forms of cancer - I am sorry for the Undersecretary - will not be treated surgically, because we can have drugs capable of controlling the cancer event, before this takes on devastating dimensions. We have listened to very important speeches on taking charge of the person and therefore also on the need to integrate pharmacological and psychological aid. My colleague, Mrs Boldrini, whom I thank for her constant and continuous cooperation, emphasized in particular the plan of psycho-oncology. We all knew that cancer heals. Think of children who have cancers, even rare ones, in childhood or young people who heal and who express three desires, which are a bit the heart of the different legislative proposals that are there. Firstly, the possibility of not being discriminated against when you go to the bank and have access to a mortgage. Secondly, the possibility of adopting a child, facing a long life perspective. Why wouldn't someone who's had cancer be able to adopt a child? Thirdly, do not be discriminated against at work. We know that certain careers face some sort of blockade, because it is said that it is not worth carrying on a person for the simple reason that he had a tumor. We know that it heals, we have to start saying it. Today it has been said very clearly that one dies and that this may soon become the first cause of death, but we must not forget that cancer also heals. What are the levers we are reminded of above all by the European oncology plan? Technology, scientific research and the model of psychology and taking charge are fine, but the structure and the fabric - and, if we could talk like a tapestry, we would also say the canvas that supports all this - are made by the organizational and management models. Long waiting lines are not a scientific or clinical problem, but an organizational one. The... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . It's not a technical problem. We know everything there is to know, we lack only the means, the opportunities and the circumstances to put it into action. We lack a new mentality, which rethinks cancer as a structure that needs to be dealt with at 360 degrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u64	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u65	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). This is the meaning of the unitary motion: to introduce a change of mind such that the national oncology plan does not sin of genericity, to have the courage to go up to the schedule, to mark the times and roles, to finance also the networks of rare tumors, tumors... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti, have the courage to conclude. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, let me finish, but at least give me that minute... I already have. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). It seems to me that this is the only opportunity we have had this year and in this legislature to talk about cancer patients, about which we all have... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u69	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, first of all we should also like to thank Senator Binetti and all the members of the Health Commission for the unitary agenda we are preparing to vote on. The themes have been extensively illustrated in the various interventions that have followed and I would like to focus on paediatric tumors sharing a reflection that starts from the love of a parent for his child, an unconditional love, which cannot be explained, but can only be lived. You know him when you're lucky enough to see that baby in your arms for the first time and stays forever. That is why it is said that there is no more painful thing for a parent than to lose a child. Here is the anomaly: the increase of cancers in paediatric and adolescent age. The Italian association registers tumors estimates that in the five years 2016-2020 in Italy 7,000 cancers have been diagnosed among children and 4,000 among adolescents between the fifteen and nineteen years, in line with the previous five years. When you meet one of those parents who have transformed such pain into the mission of a life, to help other young lives, the question that comes spontaneously is: what are the priorities of this country? How important is our daily running in the face of the suffering of certain people? But most importantly, are we doing everything we can on health and research issues? We, as a group, believe not. We are convinced that more and better could be done, if we were all honest in recognising priorities and working with strict rules to marginalize inappropriateness, because every mismanaged resource is a failure to respond to one of our fellow citizens. [[Applause]] Some of the things we ask for are so basic that it surprises us to have to repeat them. In particular, I am referring to the correct and uniform treatment of the paediatric oncology patient, promoting at territorial level the multidisciplinary approach and teamwork, with the presence of several specialists and with the aim of ensuring and improving the psychophysical well-being of the patient and his family. A survey conducted in Italy by the Soleterre ONLUS Foundation and the Trauma Research Unit of the Catholic University of Milan, from November 2019 to September 2021, on adolescents between the ages of twelve and twenty-three years, at the pediatric oncoematology unit of the Policlinico San Matteo di Pavia, showed clinically significant anxiety and depression. How could it be otherwise? It is already difficult when such oncologic diseases affect as adults; let us imagine when one is in the prime of the years. The psychological assistance of paediatric patients and their families in the medical oncology departments, carried out by qualified graduates in psychology, is crucial. It is necessary and fundamental, however, that our country, through the action of the Government, undertakes to support scientific research. The rare disease law is a first step, but we need to do more for the development of new therapies: allocate funds for innovative paediatric cancer drugs; activate experimental treatment protocols and develop clinical trials through a multidisciplinary therapeutic approach. In addition, it is necessary to provide for the allocation of funds for the economic support of low-income households, taking into account the costs to be incurred in the case of admissions to care centres away from their residence. This last aspect inevitably leads us to the issue of fairness in access to care: no one should have a greater or lesser chance of curing himself on the basis of where he is born. Parliament therefore has the task of identifying certain rules of accountability and proper use of resources to ensure that all regions offer efficient responses to their fellow citizens, without lowering the bar of effectiveness of responses and claiming that the whole chain, from the executive summit to the... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It must be demanded that the whole chain, from the executive summit to the individual socio-health worker (OSS), works in all regions towards a single objective, that of guaranteeing the health of each of us. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione on this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u72	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, first of all I would like to thank Senator Binetti and the entire Health Commission, chaired by Senator Parente, for the work they have done. The agenda we are debating today is a very important subject, which we have largely shared with the majority groups. More than 1,000 new cases of cancer are diagnosed every day in Italy. By 2035, the number of lives lost due to neoplastic diseases will increase by around 24%, making cancer the first cause of death in the European Union. The economic impact of the disease in Europe is estimated at EUR 100 billion per year. By 2020, 1.3 million people lost their lives because of cancer. The indirect effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on cancer prevention and care and oncohematology are many. The delays accumulated in screening performance, diagnosis, new treatments, oncology and oncoematology and surgical interventions show that the implementation of the new national oncology plan is important. I would like to remind you that in the Health Commission we have adopted an important law, No 29 of 22 March 2019, establishing and regulating the National Network of Cancer Registers and Monitoring Systems and Epidemiological Report for Public Health Control. It is important to complete the national register as it has not been fully implemented. It is essential to proceed, in rapid times, to the enactment of the regulation that identifies and regulates the data that can be inserted in the national network, the modalities of their treatment, the subjects who can have access to it, as well as the decree for the establishment of the epidemiological report for the health control of the population. We know, unfortunately, that the event of the disease involves many aspects of the person's life and that the psychological repercussions on the oncology patient and his family are different. We consider it important to ask the Government to guarantee and encourage psycho-oncology services in the health structure, in order to improve the quality of life of those who face the diagnosis of cancer and therapies and thus limit the possibility of psychological consequences. I would like to remind you that a few days ago the Regional Council of Lazio approved the proposal of regional law n. 191 of 17 October 2019, which promotes the establishment of psycho-oncologic care services in the hospitals of the Region and the mandatory presence of the figure of the psycho-oncology within the multidisciplinary team that deals with the taking care of the oncology and onco-hematological patient. Lazio, from today, is the first Italian Region to establish by law the services of psycho-oncology in hospitals for cancer patients: an important milestone, achieved thanks to the work carried out by patient associations together with Councillor Loreto Marcelli of the Movimento 5 Stars. In addition, a great deal of attention has also been paid to the logic of proximity, through the dehospedalization of treatments, considering the possibility of extending the good practices of oncology therapies to be carried out at home or in community homes, in order to avoid the displacement of cancer patients. This is very important and goes fully in the direction of other important measures in the field of proximity medicine, such as the establishment of the family nurse, which is a very dear subject to me, which I have carried out in this parliamentary term. Finally, we ask to provide in the acts of reform of the territorial health system a definition of home care including all types of services and services provided to home patients, also favoring the predisposition by the Region of a model of taking charge that guarantees to patients the integration of all the services provided on a home basis to a single provider, in order to facilitate the therapeutic adherence of the patient and efficient the organization of the taking charge. For this reason and for all the other reasons listed on the unitary agenda, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movimento colleagues. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u73	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Binetti, Parent, Boldrini, Fregolent, Cantù, Errani, Pirro, Laniece, Rizzotti, Stabile, Siclari, Doria, Lunesu, Marin, Biti, Iori, Castellone, Marinello, Mautone, Pisani Giuseppe, Gallone, Aimi, Vono and Caligiuri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u74	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00484 by Senator Mirabelli and other Senators, 1-00495 by Senator Urso and other Senators, 1-00499 by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and 1-00507 by Senator Candiani and other Senators, on the Italian candidature for the seat of the Authority for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, which are described. As you have not been included in the debate, I call on the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u75	Mr President, I welcome the premises and commitments of all the motions that have been tabled. I would like to recall, in particular, that on 24 June, on the occasion of the presentation of the Annual Report of the UIF (Financial Information Unit), the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance Daniele Franco represented, in line with the commitments that are required of us, that Italy will present a strong candidacy for the seat of the Authority for anti-money launching and countering the financing of terrorism AMLA.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u79	WOMAN (IPf-CD). Mr President, this motion finds its essence in the European Commission's package of legislative proposals aimed at consolidating the European Union's rules to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, including the creation of a new Community authority to combat money laundering. This is undoubtedly an objective to be shared, optimized and supported firmly, so as to put in place all the tools to improve the detection of suspicious operations and activities and to fill the gaps exploited by criminals to recycle illicit proceeds or forage terrorist activities through the financial system. As highlighted in the EU Security Strategy for the period 2020-2025, the consolidation of the European regulatory framework on combating money laundering and terrorist financing will help to protect European citizens from terrorism, organised crime and the dangers posed by the evolution of the new mafias. In the difficult years we have been through, crime has been unscrupulous to take advantage of the pandemic to seize the opportunities for gain. The phenomenon was highlighted by the UIF, the Financial Information Unit with the Bank of Italy: the last annual report presented showed a sharp increase in the reporting by banks and other entities of suspicious money laundering in 2021 and in the first months of 2022. During this period, UIF received 69,400 suspicious transaction reports (SOS), completing a year of strong reporting growth, up 15.2 compared to the second half of 2020. The total SOS received in 2021 was 139,524 units, i.e. more than 23.3 percent compared to the previous year, while those analysed were 138,482, an increase of 21.9 percent. The Covid, therefore, has broken down the enterprises and the organized underworld has taken advantage of it. This theorem has been the subject of several in-depth investigative analyses and is confirmed by even more recent data: suspicious reports have increased by 35 percent in the first current semester. The statistics drawn up by the financial information unit of the Bank of Italy are based on a rule imposing on a wide audience of entities, consisting of bank and financial intermediaries, gaming service providers and others, to inform with reports the transactions for which they know, suspect or have reasonable grounds to suspect that they are ongoing or that they have been carried out or attempted money laundering or terrorist financing operations or that in any case the funds, regardless of their size, come from criminal activities. It is known that organised crime has for some time made a qualitative leap, working in sensitive sectors of economic-productive activity through companies and loans with interests mainly concentrated in the sectors where there is a greater flow of money and economic resources, such as public procurement, in particular in the areas of the collection and disposal of solid urban waste and in the management of landfills (so-called ecomafia), as well as in the financial activities and the exercise of credit and in the activities of the tourism sector and the management of bathing establishments. There is an entrepreneurial and business vision, in short, of criminal businesses, found in bad organizations, increasingly interested in the most dynamic sectors of the economy. This happens because there is ferment, new companies are born, innovative entrepreneurial paths are explored, thus quickly managing to change skin and divert their investments in the most productive sectors. This is the confirmation that lawlessness lurks where there is poverty, but also in the economic and entrepreneurial fabric characterized by many enterprises, sometimes so young that it can be arranged in pandemic times more than can happen to others more solid. The risk of recycling has therefore marked a dangerous leap forward. An example of all: the data of the Province of Lecce track a 55 percent more, with 899 suspicious reports in the first six months of 2021, which had been 579 in the same period of 2020 and 881 in the second part of the year. A clear trend and a clear trend, these, which leave little room for interpretations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, I invite you to conclude. WOMAN (IPf-CD). Mr President, I would ask you to allow me the time we have been given for the explanation of vote, which is ten minutes. I've been told. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I apologise, but perhaps you do not know that for each explanation of vote on this motion the Conference of Leaders has given five minutes, so you have already exceeded your time. I'll give you 15 seconds to finish. WOMAN (IPf-CD). Thank you, Mr President, I reserve the right to submit the written text of my speech and I conclude by announcing the vote in favour of Together for the future Democratic Centre. Our Group considers it important and necessary that the Government takes action in all European fora so that the headquarters of the AMLA is fixed, in Italy as requested by the motion, also in the light of the work of contrast carried out, that over the years has seen our country constantly engaged in the fight against money laundering and new mafias. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u80	The drama of written texts is that then it is more complicated to synthesize them.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u83	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I will try to make even shorter use of the time available to me. What we are discussing here is a particularly sensitive issue. It is well known that crime organized for several years, we could always say, in its various articulations it is customary to invest the huge resources of evil, illicit trafficking and events related to crime, proceeding to the recycling of these sums in the so-called legal economy. Precisely the spread of this phenomenon - money laundering and its use often to finance terrorism - represents a serious threat to the integrity of the European Union's economy and financial system, obviously with the necessary and intuitive repercussions on the security of its citizens. In July 2021, the European Commission presented the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the so-called AMLA, an authority that should monitor precisely for anti-money laundering purposes, which will be a sort of coordination of activities aimed specifically at combating money laundering from criminal and illegal activities. This authority will have to support the activities of the bodies that should monitor the development of recycling activities, monitoring them and ensuring that the activities in the various countries are coordinated. The activity to be carried out is fundamental to the control of the phenomenon and to avoid inevitable repercussions on the economy, which would suffer in an absolute way, because the sums that are recycled are huge, even far from our ordinary way of thinking. Among other things, we must always bear in mind that, as I said, behind these huge sums, there are often horrible crimes for the citizen, for society, for families and for communities. Fighting money laundering therefore means fighting crime, sticking it to the heart. In setting up this authority, the European Parliament has welcomed the desire to create a mechanism of support and coordination, as absolutely necessary within the European Union. We must remember the activity that takes place in our country, probably the one that more than any other has worked to counter the phenomenon with the adoption of specific measures. Think of all the checks that are carried out regularly on all economic transactions; the doctors accountants, labour consultants, notaries, lawyers and even auditors are obliged to do so. It is therefore before everyone's eyes that Italy is at the forefront of this kind of activity. Therefore, it is absolutely essential to support the fact that it is Italy that is leading this new activity, which must involve all of us and which, however, must involve all the countries that together will be able to carry out the control activity properly and therefore finally combat - all united by the same intent within the European Union - the recycling activity. This will certainly help to preserve our economy from the irreversible damage that might otherwise occur. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u86	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, this opportunity was also expressed by the Republic's Parliamentary Security Committee in its annual report to Parliament presented on 9 February, precisely because, during the work carried out last year, we had seen this interest in several hearings by those who are at the forefront of combating money laundering. We speak specifically of the hearings held by the president of the Italian Banking Association Patuelli, the general commander of the Zafarana Finance Guard and the offices in charge of the Bank of Italy. That is why - and we have taken this into account in Parliament - we discussed it with the Franco Minister for Economic Affairs during his hearing. We also count on this in the motion of Brothers of Italy, aware, like you, of how important it is to make our country obtain the seat of the nascent European Authority and of how our country rightly has this ambition, because it does not yet have an authority in the economic and financial field. The economic and financial authorities are in Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid and, outside the European Union, Basel. All the other major capitals of our European Union already have the seat of an economic and financial authority, all except Italy. On the merits, it is clear to everyone that Italy - and we say this, each of us, in the respective motions presented by the parliamentary groups - has developed at the same time a particular legislation to combat money laundering, which is also experienced in the field; legislation that derives from the fact that our country first had to deal with the issue and did so thanks to the foresight of our hero judges - Livatino, Borsellino, Falcone - who indicated before others, already at the end of the eighties, how important it was to follow the trace of money to counter the money laundering of the great criminal organizations. For this reason, Italy has developed, first and better than others, legislation to combat this phenomenon, which is then carried out in the field activities; the phenomenon, according to European data, which would cover at least 1% of the gross domestic product of the European Union. From this we must start to claim the seat and, at the same time, we must be aware that the issue today is even more important than in the past. And it is for technological development, which has allowed for the integration of financial flows. It is because, in the meantime, this has also led, through cybernetic activity linked to financial activity, to the creation of virtual currencies and therefore also cryptocurrencies, which are the instrument used by international groups (criminals, terrorists and not only). And this has now highlighted the global nature of the criminal and terrorist groups: we think of the extortion carried out also thanks to the cryptocurrencies; we think - and I conclude - of how important the sanctioning regime in the tax field is, that the systems, the regimes or, better still, the rogue states try to circumvent through the cryptocurrencies or money laundering. We are aware of how difficult the game is, because now, in the European negotiation, a blocking union has emerged that makes it difficult to assert the right of our country to obtain the seat of that Authority in the substance. But I think we owe it to heroic judges, Paolo Borsellino and Falcone. I hope that the seat of the Authority, in whatever city in Italy is located, will then have a street or a square, where the Authority itself is located, dedicated precisely to those who have taught us and Europe the road to pursue in order to fight, through money laundering, the major crimes organized at international level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u89	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, we are very pleased with this session. We are pleased that, by presenting the motion on the establishment in Italy of the Authority for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing (AMLA), we have generated an important debate and sharing on a decisive issue. In fact, the fight against money laundering is a decisive, priority issue if you want to fight the Mafia; if you want to fight the criminal organizations that are increasingly choosing to attack the legal economy in recent years by recycling the huge proceeds of their illegal activities. Only in Italy are we talking about 30 billion per year that are recycled, through the introduction into the legal economy, and they condition our democracy. The fight against money laundering is, therefore, an important issue that can only be addressed in the dimension in which money laundering is now taking place. Money has no frontiers: if there is someone who has globalized and who has truly globalized their activities, it is the mafias. Therefore, the fight against money laundering must be done at European and international level. Energy must be networked; the different levels of investigation must be interlinked, but common rules must also be established for all financial agencies and joint controls must be established to combat money laundering. In this sense, the creation of the European Anti-money laundering Authority is a right and important choice, which goes in the right direction. As others have already said and as it is written in the motions, I return only to emphasize why Italy must ask for the location in our country of the headquarters of AMLA: here there is the best legislation to counter the mafias and control the financial circuits; here there are the best endowments from the investigative point of view; here there are also the experiences of management of contracts, of attention to the origin of the funds of the different more advanced companies. We do not therefore ask for the seat of the Authority because we feel like a country more exposed than others; we are not. We ask for the seat of the Authority because here we are able to put in place a positive know-how for the whole country. This is the theme that the Government must use; this is the know-how that the Government must value, claiming the right allocation to Italy of the Anti-money laundering Authority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u92	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, economic crime now has a supranational and translational dimension and, in order to be able to combat it, it is no longer possible to ignore at European level, at least, common judicial cooperation and a full sharing of information, values, institutions, incriminating and procedural rules. The need for cooperation and coordination also led Europe to propose, through the European Commission, the establishment of the Authority to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. It will, in fact, be the coordinating centre of the various national authorities: it will coordinate and assist the national financial information units, including the Banca d'Italia UIF, in improving the effectiveness of the implementation of European standards, ensuring uniform standards and risk assessment methods. It will be given supervisory and investigative powers and the power to impose sanctions. But the most important task - in my opinion - remains to facilitate the coordination and joint analysis of the various national competent bodies in order to better identify illegal financial flows of a transnational and cross-border nature. Giovanni Falcone - as has already been mentioned - was one of the first to deepen this aspect: "Follow the money" was his motto. In order to rebuild the flows of money he had moved to Latin America, Brazil, Canada, USA, Switzerland and the Far East, following the traces of the proceeds of heroin in the investigation of Pizza Connection and refineries of ours. By reconstructing ties, relationships and relationships; by maintaining contacts with judges, investigators and policemen in the middle of the world and by putting together and coordinating all the information, he was the forerunner of this European body. In Italy we have learned before others that the fight against corruption and transnational mafias is played by attacking illicit assets through prevention, confiscation, and repression, through various criminal rules (money laundering, self-laundering, the use of money of illicit origin, fraudulent transfer of values), as well as through the rules to ensure transparency in financial transactions and ownership. I am thinking, for example, of the procedure for reporting suspicious transactions (SOS). Tracking, identifying and recognizing the money of the mafias and that resulting from corruption, tax evasion and the submerged economy, washed and cleaned up by dozens of transactions, is the challenge of the new millennium. Money laundering and the financing of terrorism are today a serious threat not only to the security of citizens, but also and above all to the integrity of the European economic system, which is now also polluted by new technologies and cryptocurrencies. In addition, in view of the considerable resources that Europe has allocated to relaunch the economy of the Member States, the so-called PNRR, particular attention will have to be paid to the mechanisms for the distribution of funding. It is in fact well known and particularly predictable that this sector is already - and will become even more so - attractive for criminal organisations interested in infiltrating public procurement and purchasing supplies. Coordination therefore responds to the dual need for consistent harmonisation of European law enforcement rules in order to protect the Union's financial system, but above all to ensure effective investigative coordination. We can be proud to remember that this operating model, designed by Falcone, is a made in Italy model. In our country, in fact, the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Directorate has been, since its last thirty years, the protagonist in the fight against money laundering and in the coordination of data, news and information also through an imposing database, which is an added value for the whole of Europe. I think that today we can rightly claim the primacy of Falcone's vision of the method in pursuing illicit capital and over the years we have acquired all the experience and know-how necessary to accommodate this new Authority. For these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group to the motions that commit the Government to take action in all the European fora so that the Authority for the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism has headquarters in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u95	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, we are absolutely in favour of the motion - and I remember, among other things, that this is a motion from my Group - for a number of reasons which I am going to list briefly. With regard to the first, we are talking about the Authority for the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism: two subjects in which Italy certainly has advanced legislation and consolidated experience - as colleagues have reminded us - for what concerns both the fight against the mafia and the fight against terrorism, which we have experienced in a particular way as experience in the 1970s. My Chief Justice Officer, Senator Giacomo Caliendo, recalled the work he had done in those years to try to identify who was funding terrorism. Today we are talking about global terrorism, but we also have a specificity in this. For the second reason, we are the only country to have the Financial Information Unit of the Bank of Italy, which is very important for both anti-money laundering and terrorism. For this reason, the Italian Banking Association - as a colleague mentioned earlier - has expressly requested to have its seat in Italy. We do not have European authority; we all remember what happened with the drug agency. We've had a hard fight. [[Applause]] , that we know how it turned out. From this point of view, we should be recognised as such with regard to the Anti-money laundering and terrorist financing Authority. Finally, it is important for two more substantive reasons, as the European Council has also said. Today recycling passes through cryptocurrencies and very sophisticated systems. We are a country that voluntarily introduced e-invoicing - as our Undersecretary knows - together with Portugal. We are a country that may have tormented small and medium-sized businesses too much with a whole series of systems that we loaded ourselves with to prove that we were firm in the fight against tax evasion. It is time then that we went to see the big tax evasion affecting other sectors. [[Applause]] , through very different recyclings and sophisticated systems, and we must do so by demonstrating that our country has the right and dignity to have its headquarters in Italy. The practice will open in September. We know that there are Basel and Warsaw, but I am convinced that Parliament's vote will give strength to our Government to achieve a goal that is dear to all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u98	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I believe that the vote in favour of the motions for our examination, which concern the Government's commitment to support and forcefully carry out the Italian headquarters for the Authority against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, brings with it an important political fact. It certainly gives weight to our country within a European balance that is not always as balanced as it should be. As has already been mentioned, our country does not have as much importance on the European offices of authority as it should have. And we believe that this is an important step in bringing back the weight of our state to the European balance. It has been said that one of the elements that supports Italy's candidacy as the host country is the fact that we have the best legislation. I do not know if we have the best legislation, but we certainly have a culture that leads us to have a very important sensitivity. And this will have to be one of the elements to which the Government will have to resort in structuring all those acts and commitments that at European level will have to lead to a result. As has already been said, we have already lived in the past when Italy has been sidelined with respect to the political importance it should have had. I therefore believe that it will be a time - as I say - for revenge at European level. As we said yesterday, particularly during the debate on the bilateral treaty between Italy and France, I believe that this will also be an important international moment. In our motion, at the first signature of Senator Candiani, we also included another important element, because it is our historical and relevant battle for our country also that of the patent court. If it is true that for the Anti-money laundering Authority we have a strict and important legislation, it is equally true that we must value the positive data we have within our country, such as the fact that in Italy there are a number of patents and trademarks registered and marketed very high that certainly has no equal at European level. [[Applause]] That is why, within our motion, we wanted to include another element in order to enhance even more the Italian presence in the European balance. However, we do not just want to talk about negative things, as I said before. The anti-money laundering authority because we have the best regulation and we have the mafia phenomenon? We also have extremely positive things, which are cultural goods. In fact, always in our motion we asked the Government for a further commitment to bring to Italy the seat of the European Executive Agency for Education and Culture: it is another important element. We value - let's ask the government - everything positive has our country. We must stop throwing crosses and curses at each other; let's talk about positive things and think for the best. These are important moments. The Government, the Undersecretary and the Minister will certainly be able to work in this direction and will always have the support of Parliament, because we will bring added values; this without considering the positive values represented by the induced: of course bringing such important authorities on our territory means offering opportunities for work, development and creating new and more important professionalism, which can then also look to the European and international world. We have always said to look outside our borders to learn where we can, but let us never forget that in our DNA, within our country and our people we have values that we have the right and the duty to spread in the world. Let's not forget that. I would like to thank the Government for the commitment that it will certainly want to make and thank Parliament for the support that it will certainly want to give to the motions under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u101	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in its resolution of 10 July, the European Parliament provided for the establishment of the Authority to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. This is an achievement, because the battle against money laundering and terrorism, in all its forms, must be carried out in a shared way, with the cooperation of all States. We are aware that money laundering is a threat to the integrity of the economy. After the lockdown we are all aware that the new mafias will have other faces, they will infiltrate precisely in the tracking of PNRR funds. Keep in mind the new tool of cryptocurrencies. The alarm cry came from the President of the Bank of Italy and the various Italian prosecutors. Having its headquarters in Italy is an acknowledgment of all the battles carried out so far: code of contracts, code of anti-corruption, legislation on the mafia, preventative life, but above all an acknowledgment to the innocent victims who, during these years, have endangered their existence. Thirty years have passed since the death of Falcone and Borsellino: two men of the institutions who, for the absolute value of legality and democracy, have endangered their existence. [[Applause]] Follow the money and you'll find the crimes. Men pass by, ideas remain and will continue to walk on the legs of other men. We strongly, with all our energies, are in favour of the establishment of this Authority and we ask that it be allocated to Italy. The 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the motions under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u102	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Mirabelli and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No. 484. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 495, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on motion No 499, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 507, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u105	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, unfortunately, today, after just one month of irrigation, the situation in Lower Lombardy is before everyone's eyes. It is a situation that I call not serious, but dramatic. The agricultural world is aware of what is happening and perhaps the only one who realizes it. Of course, if it doesn't rain, it's no one's fault, for God's sake, but it's not to blame or to find a culprit that I decided to do this surgery. I have decided to take the floor today because I am making myself and the House the fear of a whole supply chain, the agricultural one that, if it does not produce today, tomorrow will have nothing to put on our tables. Faced with images of dry fields and bare production, I wonder why, if the agricultural world does not want to give up and is not giving up, politics has already given up. It is not enough to take refuge behind the compensation measures contained in the decrees that will be issued. Northern farmers are still calling, loudly speaking, for mountain basins to let go of water to save at least that part of production and cultivation that can still be saved today. Let's not talk about 20 years of irrigation and water. We're talking about a few weeks. We're talking about about 20 days of water. The day before yesterday I met the farmers from Coldiretti, who took me to those camps. I saw their frantic eyes in front of the dried crops. I have seen in their eyes resignation for the abandonment by the institutions. Speaking to them, I have decided to speak and to speak in this House. Mine is an appeal to the Ministry, the Minister and the Presidents of the Region, because still a part of the harvest could be saved, intervening not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but today and immediately. Eighty percent of the crops of mulched corn and hay fodder are missing at the appeal. Stable meadows are permanently compromised and, in addition to economic loss, we also lose an important biodiversity heritage. There will also be serious repercussions for the feeding of herds of cattle and some farms will be forced to reduce the number of animals unable to guarantee their food. It is therefore necessary to immediately release all the water invaded in the alpine basins which, on June 26, amounts to 182 million cubic metres. I say this because there are rules that establish the priority agricultural use of water compared to other uses: agricultural, drinking, domestic and energy use. Without food, the energy will be of little use. [[Applause]] We absolutely cannot afford to delay the release of the alpine basins... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] .. is the largest voice of national GDP. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u108	Angrisani (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, I am here, unfortunately for the umpteenth time, to represent the concerns of all of us citizens of Agro Sarnese-Nocerino about the fate of the Martiri hospital in Villa Malta in Sarno. There are many questions, not only on my part, which have not been answered. By now - it pains me to say - it has become a telenovela: today the local chronicle returns to highlight the criticalities of the first aid and the difficulties to find units that can keep it open. Think that the first-aid shifts are only covered until today, July 6th, and to all this is added the resounding news of the closure of one wing of the medical department: another fifteen beds less. It was not enough to close the long-term ward, the recent closure of the orthopedic ward, the difficulties of the Gynecology and Obstetrics departments. And the shortage of doctors is not enough to justify this. There is a black summer for the hospital, but above all for the unfortunate citizens who will need care. The lack of planning, continuous emergencies, little political and managerial foresight and the continuous inconveniences for users and health workers are clearly attributable to the ASL and the Campania Region, which will have to respond as soon as possible. That is why, together with the Health Committee of which I am a member, we have set up, together with the administration and other political representatives, a permanent table to solicit the interest of the relevant institutions. It seemed that they all had the magic wand and instead, punctually, the promises turned out propaganda on the health of the citizens: promises of reinforcement of the personnel punctually missed; commitments for hiring and innovations never maintained; all this despite the Martyrs of Villa Malta has been recognized for the strategic position fundamental in the hospital network between the Provinces of Naples and Salerno. I repeat: there is no forward-looking programmatic activity in the health care sector. There is no univocal political vision that gives answers to the territories when the regional health plan is drawn up. There is no institutional synergy, although often having a government chain of the same color, from the parliamentary executive to many provincial and local administrations, as happens in Sarno and in the Province of Salerno. Meanwhile, we will not stop, each for his own possibility, so that the Martyrs of the Villa Malta of Sarno will not be abandoned to himself. The hospital was designed for a different vocation; now it is a candidate to be a taillight of the Agro hospital network, and not only. I say that's enough of this management to the detriment of the public, to favor... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] because citizens rightly turn, in the absence of a public health service, to conventional centres to protect their health. (at 12.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u111	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what happened at the late evening of 19 June. The Carabinieri of Mortara were called to intervene at the station, where a thirty-year-old drunk worker had attacked first verbally and then slapped, for futile reasons, a driver and a train leader of Trainor. Insults, pushers, and slaps forced the two railroaders to lock themselves in the main cabin of the convoy. The Carabinieri found the man who, drunk, with his kicks and fists, tried to enter the cabin. The man, resident in Mortara, tried to attack the Carabinieri, kicking them, so that the military were forced to use the urticant spray supplied. The thirty-year-old was arrested for resistance and violence to the public officer and denounced for interruption of the public service, because the train was cancelled. Two days later, on the evening of June 21, again in the Pavese, a train leader is surrounded and attacked by four people armed with chains as soon as the doors of the carriage open. The attack, whose motive was apparently futile, resulting from an altercation, had serious consequences for the victim of the beating, which suffered a broken fracture and several weeks of prognosis. Last in order of time, but not of gravity, is what happened on 24 June on a train Italo coming from Venice: the train leader, arrived at the station occupied by a group of young passengers, asked for the tickets and insisted to see them, but the young people, after having niched, reacted violently and hit the woman and another collaborator to the head. Then the group ran off the carriage, losing track between the tracks, because in the meantime the convoy had arrived at the station. Dramatic is the story of a witness, who reported that there was a parapiglia and in the end the railwaymen dragged blood on the uniform, a bloody and shocking scene. These episodes are only those that occurred in the last week, which have been reported by the media. What happened to the trainmaster and his colleagues is a scene that is repeated more and more often, although - fortunately - there is not always a violent epilogue and in some cases people without tickets have agreed to get off the wagon, but the episodes are frequent. The safety on the trains, President, of both railway staff and travellers, is becoming more and more a problem because, in addition to what happened on the trains of Trenord, with harassment to girls at the beginning of June, the danger also runs on the less popular trains, like Italo and Frecce, which provide for a reservation, but those who want delinquere certainly do not care to have the ticket. On the subject of health and safety also of workers in the railway sector, our Commission has already unanimously adopted a resolution, but we believe that this problem is growing and therefore we need to address and resolve the issues related to the safety of the staff in question. The solution to the problem cannot be more procrastinated, as the escalation of violent acts is damaging workers and users. For these reasons, I have put a question to the Ministers of the Interior and sustainable infrastructure and mobility, because we need to know what strategies they intend to implement to ensure the safety of workers and passengers on board all railway trains. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u114	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I feel that it is not only a moral obligation to draw the attention of this House to the issue of the registration of the children and daughters of the rainbow families. We have abandoned the mayors to a responsibility that is all of Parliament, which is gravely in breach of hundreds of parents, but above all of girls and children who for no reason should - as is happening - be ignored by the State, ignored to the point of not seeing fully recognized their status as citizens and citizens. I applaud the sensitivity shown by several mayors and mayors in our country. However, the fact that such a delicate issue as the correct definition of the legal status of newborn girls and children is reduced to tests of resistance and courage, which is also very dangerous because of the uncertainty they produce in the concluding facts, seems to me unworthy of a democracy that continues to proclaim itself advanced. I agree with Stefano Lo Russo, mayor of Turin, city of avant-garde in the matter of rights, when he says he wants to move in the wake of legality, also in the interest of the recipients of the registrations, and not only to protect the public administration from disputes, already arrived in recent months. But we can no longer hide our heads in the sand and let that furrow be traced by the judgments that the courts issue from time to time; judgments that in their obvious heterogeneity have alienated us from an indispensable framework of legal certainty. We need a law that gets girls and children out of limbo, not only in Milan or Turin, but throughout Italy; a law that deals with the various cases in a punctual way, without confusing, for example, the recordings with transcripts of acts made abroad. We need a law in the name of these constitutional principles that unite the whole country with its plurality of municipalities and bell towers. And if one is afraid that there is no time to build it from scratch before the end of the mandate - assuming that reality as a Lenford Network has already submitted convincing solutions to us on the regulatory level - we use the instrument of the amendment to be included in the first useful measure. We interrupt this exhausting situation of uncertainty for dozens and dozens of Italian families and their children. There is nothing easier to achieve, as long as we recognise that this issue concerns Parliament, which concerns us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u117	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to the Marmolada tragedy. The collapse of the Marmolada glacier and the consequent tragedy occurred was a tragic fatality, probably unpredictable in the times and in the modalities, but let me say in some aspects conceivable, given the damage and alterations almost irreparable that affect our territories. The Chief Prosecutor of Trento said - textual words - that we can rule out negligence or imprudence. All this is in relation to the overheating of the atmosphere, climate change, the consequent environmental damage and the particular heat wave that has hit our country. Unfortunately, it was a carnage. The official budget at present is seven victims, eight injured and, fortunately, for now, only five missing persons. I am glad to say that eight other missing persons have been found in good condition. In such sadness and pain a good news is represented by the discovery of a nine - year - old missing child, who has returned home safely. The collapse of the Slav on Marmorata, in its tragicity and drama, represents an immense pain for the whole of our country and constitutes a warning for all of us on the severity of the environmental emergency and the deleterious effects of the climatic upheavals. It is necessary to implement policies and measures which are no longer procrastinable, but which are indispensable so that the many, too many tragedies involving Slavs, rocky ridges, rivers in flood, floods or floods - tragedies all linked to human carelessness and poor environmental protection - do not return again. Instead, we know that they are now occurring almost repetitively, accompanied by death, pain and suffering. As our President of the Draghi Council also said, Italy mourns these victims and all Italians are moved by the families who have lost their loved ones. This is a tragedy that certainly has some unpredictability, but which also depends on the deterioration of the environment and climatic situations. Measures are needed to ensure that what happened on Marmolada no longer happens in Italy. Pope Francis himself invited to pray for the victims of the collapse and urged all institutions and those in charge of protecting the integrity of public health to find new ways of respect for people and nature as a matter of urgency. I shall conclude, Madam President. With my speech, beside the heartfelt mourning and deep sorrow of all of us in this House and of all of the Italians, we feel a strong duty to act: not just words, but concrete facts. It's now or never. A prayer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u120	Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Madam President, an article which appeared yesterday on the heading 'Right and the reverse', on Italy Today, shows an unfortunate fact, highlighting an contradictory aspect of Italian justice. In October 2019, in Trieste, a young mentally disabled man, Alejandro Augusto Meran, killed with gunshots, during a police shooting, agents Matteo Demenego and Pierluigi Rotta, subtracting the weapon from one of the two. Well, the sentence of the Trieste Court of Assizes, last May 5, acquitted the killer because he was found not attributable, as schizophrenic and unable to understand and want. But the real paradox is the sentence of the families of the two policemen who died in service to pay the costs of the trial, quantized in a figure from 30,000 to 35,000 euros. We're crazy if we think about it. The President of the Republic Mattarella rightly awarded the two policemen with the gold medal, and we thank him for that. It was a sad story of news, tragic and known for its singular dynamics, which we can sum up in two huge regulatory gaps, which we Senators of the Republic, in an era of reforms such as the current one, must fill. When an accused person is acquitted because he is not indicted because of a defect of mind, the expenses are liable to fall definitively on the persons offended and the victims of the crime: a legal paradox. But there is more: our system provides for the necessary double trial for the victim of crime who wants compensation for the damage, in this case. The victim of the crime, a civilian party in a criminal trial, when a defendant is acquitted for inability to understand and want, if he wants compensation for the damage is forced to start a different civil trial from scratch. In fact, the criminal court cannot rule on the civil party's claim for compensation and the offended person is forced to a double trial. Thus it prescribes the Code of Criminal Procedure, saved by the Constitutional Court by judgment No 12 filed on 29 January 2016. The Consultative Committee has emphasized that the legislator, if he wishes, can arrange differently and avoid legal perintegration to the person offended, victim twice. It therefore announces a legislative initiative to this end, with the hope that the Senate will accept it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u123	DE BONIS (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, with regard to the drought and the emergency that is affecting our country, the Council of Ministers has done well to resolve the state of emergency until December 2022. However, I would like to point out that the situation is beginning to worsen in the Mezzogiorno regions as well. It is these days the news that, after the end of the harvests, many farmers point out to me - and they point out to our groups - the difficulty of coping with high costs, the increase in fuel and fertilizers, with productions that have been reduced by 20, 30 and in some areas even 40%. In all evidence, there is no Gothic line of drought that can divide the drought zones of our country, neglecting the whole national picture. The climate phase is also becoming dramatic in Tuscany, Lazio and so on in the Southern Regions. They are in my region, the Basilicata, water tank of at least three regions, have been taken over 11 million cubic meters of water in a single week from the invaders. General water supplies are showing a deficit of about 37 million cubic metres over the previous year. That is why I ask the Government and Parliament to take responsibility for a strategy that allows our regions to equip themselves in time before it is too late, as I urge the Southern regions to report the state of emergency so that they can give hope to our producers, who fear they have no resources to plan the next sowings. Threats also come on the side of olive production, which suffers a heavy water deficit. In order to deal with the current situation in the Central-South regions, the same means and extraordinary powers are needed for the other regions. We must ensure that the country's strategic resources are protected and strengthened: in fact, I believe that water is an essential asset for man, for agriculture and for all production sectors. As I conclude, we also need a long-term strategy that allows us to prepare ourselves for events which, unfortunately, are less and less exceptional. We must modernise the water network, maintain the existing network, equip ourselves with desalitors (although in compliance with the law saves the sea) and learn from the Israelis that water is used three times: first for civil uses, then for productive ones and then for agricultural ones. The great thirst of the planet is not and will not be an episodic emergency and there is no reason to imagine that it will not scourge even the South of Italy, which already has many gaps with the North and does not deserve to collect another on the wave of the emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-449.ana.u125	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, July 7, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 12.22 p.m.)
