ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 10 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u3	He asked the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a on draft law No 2685. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u4	Mr President, a sufficiently short period of time has been required for further investigation into some of the amendments which - hopefully - will be appreciated not only by Members of Parliament but also by the Government. That is why we had to update the meetings of the Commissions meeting 5th and 6th until tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u5	I should now have to suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference of Leaders, but I would like to anticipate the progress of the speeches on matters not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u8	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech at the end of the sitting is also at the end of the term. I wish to extend my thanks to the Senate structure, which is of great experience and very professional in all its dimensions, from the Commissions to the Assembly, demonstrating a capacity that is right that also knows the country. In fact, often and willingly the Senate's activity is described as almost secondary to that of the Chamber of Deputies, or we are talking about a Parliament that merely ratifys or consists of two Chambers that do the same things. In our country there is an equal bicameralism based on a difference between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. It would be necessary to take an example from the work carried out by the Senate, given its ability to work in a thorough and always very meticulous way in the Commissions. This is made possible by the extremely professional and capable structure, directed with great skill and wisdom by the Secretary-General Dr. Serafin, whom I congratulate best, and by the Secretary-General Dr. Toniato. I would also like to thank all the parliamentary assistants who have always lived up to the task that the institution requires. [[Applause]] Good job to those who will take over the charge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u9	Senator Candiani, I join your thanks to the entire structure of the Senate, which has been for me a companion of incredible adventures. The whole administration has my thanks.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u12	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Madam President, I too share the gratitude expressed by Senator Candiani for the work of the Senate structures, the Secretary-General and the last parliamentary assistant. Mr President, allow me, however, to make a brief speech on the dramatic energy crisis generated by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, with the rise in the price of gas and electricity that has seen the tenfold cost of bills for families and businesses, now literally on the gas barrel. Added to this are the economic repercussions of inflation, which broke through 8.4%, the increase in the cost of living and the fearful closure of flourishing business activities that could lead to a rationing of energy, with the forecast of a frosty winter. The dullness of the political classes that have followed in recent decades and its Executives that have governed Italy has prevented in the country of the sun to exploit the alternative energy to fossil sources, such as the exterminated, inexhaustible and free power of solar energy and photovoltaic technologies, able to satisfy in whole or in part the energy supply for families and enterprises, in the case of panoramic energy saving windows. There are studies, including by the European Commission, on the savings that can be made. In our country there are excellences, often unknown, pride of Made in Italy, like the Vepa panoramic windows, grafted with small photovoltaic cells that make the houses manageable from the point of view of energy. We are still few in Europe to produce glass of this type, explained Vito Chirenti, owner of a company based in Salento, in an interview appeared on 31 May last on "La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno" (La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno). Madam President, I shall finish because my time is running out. Amendments have been tabled several times, which could generate savings of between €10 billion and €15 billion, on the panoramic windows that have the patent of the Ministry of Economic Development. I hope that the government will not listen as a merchant and that the amendment tabled by me and other senators can be approved in order to resolve the dramatic energy crisis that is attacking the country. Madam President, I should like to end by thanking you and the Undersecretary of the Government very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u15	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, my complaint is that, if it is confirmed, it is very serious and that I leave it to those who will come after us or the future activities of the Copasir, if they are there. I read about "Africa ExPress", a site usually well-informed, directed by the correspondent Massimo Alberizzi, that Italy is training in Sudan a paramilitary militia, the RSF, in charge of curbing the flow of migrants to Europe. It is written on this site that on August 3, an Italian delegation led by our intelligence visited Khartum and met with the head of the paramilitary group, General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, called Hemmetti. At this moment in Sudan there is a team of twelve Italian soldiers - as it seems - and I do not think that Parliament has been informed. The paramilitary group we are talking about is largely formed by former janjaweed, notorious Arab terrorists, nicknamed the horse devils, famous because in Darfur they attacked African villages, killed men, raped women and kidnapped children. Perhaps the government of our country should explain to us why the fight against terrorism is supported by a group known as terrorist, accused of summary executions and violence on civilians. Hemmetti, well-known for having been responsible for massacres, admitted to African Union officials his co-responsibility, at the beginning of the 2000s, in massacres and rapes in southern Darfur. On 12 January Hemmetti and his right-hand man, Muhammad Abdul Halim, received twice another Italian delegation, led by an executive of the Security Information Department (DIS), an agency that depends on the Presidency of the Council, Colonel Antonio Colella with four very trusted men and a woman apparently representing an NGO, who came to Karthum to plan the training of those cutthroats. Well, after returning to Italy, the RSF commander presented a list of requests including technical assistance equipment from our Government and strategic support, i.e. training and weapons instructors. These are the demands of the group of cutthroats that we should in theory - it seems, but I would like a confirmation - finance, among other things, also in a tandem with Wagner, also engaged in the training of the RSF. We could trace everything back to funding already decided by the European Union and the 2017 directive, which provided for 46 million to be donated to humanitarian aid, while the remaining amount was destined for development. It can be assumed that some of those funds have been used right now - in the face of development - to pay for the training costs of criminals. We expect answers today or tomorrow. I will end by thanking everyone! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u18	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, for forty-five years Leonard Peltier, a native American human rights activist, has been unjustly imprisoned in the United States of America to serve two life sentences. We ask the Italian Government to make its voice heard so that the President of the United States of America, with a gesture of grace, will put an end to this injustice and restore the freedom to Leonard Peltier. Activist of the American Indian movement, Peltier is the only person convicted of the incident at the Pine Ridge Indian Reserve in the 1970s, where two FBI special agents lost their lives. He has always proclaimed himself innocent, he continued his work as an activist from prison. Over the years numerous and serious elements have emerged which have clearly shown that Peltier was unjustly condemned on the basis of false evidence and evidence. Yes, you understand: 45 years in prison because of false evidence and testimony. In fact, one of the prosecutors, in the trial that led to the conviction, publicly committed himself to the pardon, first addressing President Obama and now again to President Biden. The Peltier case is now known all over the world and has become the symbol of the oppression of indigenous peoples. For him the appeals of countless personalities have been lifted, including Nelson Mandela and Mother Teresa of Calcutta. For more than 20 years, the European Parliament has spoken in two resolutions asking the United States for its release. Shortly before his death, the President of the European Parliament, the late David Sassoli, returned to the case by asking the US authorities to grant the pardon to Peltier. I wonder how a person feels after spending 45 years unjustly in prison. I don't know if you've ever thought about it, if it happened to you or your loved one to suffer such a grave injustice. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time Italy also made its voice heard. It is time that the Italian Government, in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Constitution, asked the United States authorities to render freedom to this man, unjustly persecuted for defending the rights of his people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u21	RAMPI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to spend a few words in this House in memory of Mikhail Gorbachev, who disappeared last week. I believe that we have faced one of the great figures of the twentieth century, a man, the last president of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, who has really tried to change the history of his country and the history of Europe. Gorbachev has many things to remember, but perhaps the most beautiful and most important to remember is a historic speech, in July 1989, so much to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where Gorbachev declined what he called the common European house. Of the words, plans and commitments of that speech, of the work started with glasnost and with perestrojka a few years earlier not everything was realized. Today the figure of Gorbachev is seen in a very controversial way. Many say he is unloved and unloved in his country. I believe that the fact is that his work has changed the history of Europe; he has changed the lives of thousands of people in the countries that are now part of the European Union. He tried to draw a different story for Russia. Today we see the consequences of the disinvestment of the Western world towards the reform project of Mikhail Gorbachev. Today we could have a different condition of the Russian peoples, more corresponding to the needs of that country, those people, those women and those men from whom we must not feel distant. The lesson of Gorbachev and also the recent years spent with its foundation, particularly on climate and environmental issues, show us that politics can be forward-looking and can have vision. Not always the farsightedness and the pagan vision and perhaps what we should learn from this lesson is that we should have more ability to invest in complex, long-term and long-term processes, instead of thinking of taking shortcuts that then come back first against people and very often against the whole political process. It seemed right for this senate to remember that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u22	Colleagues, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.47 p.m. and resumed at 8.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u23	The Conference of Heads of Group decided that at tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 2.30 p.m., the aid decree-law will be discussed until its conclusion. One hour and sixteen minutes were allocated to the general discussion of the measure on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The sitting does not include closing hours. At the opening of the session will be commemorated the figures of Senator Ghedini and journalist Piero Angela.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u24	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings of 7 September: [[Wednesday 7 September h. 14,30 - Drawing of law n. 2685 - Decree-Law n. 115, Aid- bis]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2685 (Decree-Law No 115, Aid- bis) (excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 5' FIBP-UDC 10' Mixed 15' PD 7' FdI 5' IV-PSI 5' UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV 21' Ipf-CD 5' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) -]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u25	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-462.ana.u26	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 7 September, at 2.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.09 p.m.
