ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 20 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I would like to inform you that today I have returned to the Head of State the resignation of myself and the government that I have presided over. The President of the Republic took note of this and the Government remains in office for the handling of current affairs. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the following decree has been issued: The President of the Republic HAVING REGARD TO Article 88 of the Constitution; HEARD the Presidents of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies; DECRETA: The Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies are dissolved. This decree, with the seal of the State, will be inserted in the Official Collection of the normative acts of the Italian Republic. Anyone who is responsible for observing him or her is obliged to observe him or her. Given in Rome on 21 July 2022 F.to Sergio Mattarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u8	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the abandonment of our faithful friends is an act of cowardice. With summer and holidays unfortunately it is proposed, in a dramatic way I dare say, the sad and uncivilized barbarity of the abandonment of pet animals, in particular dogs, often left almost as toys in disuse in the countryside and in the most varied and dangerous places, under the sun, without food or water and exposed to the most varied dangers, without any respect and with calculated and premeditated violence. Protecting animals and combating abandonment must be a moral obligation for all of us and for every community. Despite this, as I said, there are still many cases of abandoning animals for the most trivial and trivial reasons, such as a trip, a holiday, a change of dwelling. There are no and there can be no valid justifications for a gesture however inhumane. Abandoning an animal is like abandoning a part of your family, as well as mistreating or beating it represents the expression of a force or violent outburst of a person who surely has inner concerns and problems. The truth is that at the basis of these inconsulted gestures there is no love or ability to truly love. An animal becomes an integral part of a family and shares its joys, sadness and happiness, without forgetting the usefulness of many dogs as an irreplaceable support in the rescue and search operations of the missing after earthquakes, avalanches and landslides. They, with their noses, manage to reach buried people and save their lives. Again, I want to remember their use as drug dogs and in police bodies or, for some of them, their becoming the eyes of those who lost sight of it. Just to testify to the goodness and value of dogs as our rescuers in emergency situations, I want to remember the last episode in order of time, happened only a few days ago on the western coast of Palinuro, where two lifeguard dogs, Dylan and Vita, had a decisive role in helping and saving five young people in difficulty, who were sinking with their pedalo. The dogs, quickly rushed in with the lifeguards, managed to get them to safety. Love and respect for animals is a sign of civilization. Let us defend them, protect them and not abandon them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u11	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us that today is the day of the elderly, intensely desired by Pope Francis, precisely on this day, with two very precise objectives: to warn us of the culture of indifference, and therefore also of its easy degenerate into a possible culture of waste, and to remind all of how carefully we must take care of the elderly; a care that must definitely start in the family, but that it would be neither possible nor sustainable if the institutions did not pay more attention to the elderly. We would probably have had a draft law on serious non-self-sufficiency on the agenda in a few days' time. But it is not just a question of self-sufficiency. The majority of the elderly live on income below decent levels and cannot access care, especially those that have become more difficult after the experience of Covid-19 and that continue to be so, because the rows are long and because to have an analysis in fast times you have to resort to the private. It is not always easy to access the services in order to satisfy the needs in the concrete time that the elder has available and that he perceives as time at his disposal. It's as if he doesn't have a long perspective of time ahead of him. Above all it is necessary to remember those elderly for whom seniority is accompanied by chronicity, disability, sometimes even mental discomfort, Alzheimer's. I hope with all my heart that this day will not be indifferent to the next draft laws that we are called to examine and that there will be a special look for the elderly, so that the end of the legislature does not give people in the most fragile conditions to indifference. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u14	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, today I would like to mention Franco Dambra, a trade unionist of great virtue, who died on 15 July. It is news that we hoped would not arrive and instead it has come to us and made immensely sad this July 15. The CGIL of the Barletta-Andria-Trani Province together with all the categories mourns the disappearance of Francesco Dambra, for all Franco. Long-term trade union manager, currently coordinator of Barletta's work room, Franco has in the past been general secretary of the Federation of Knowledge Workers (FLC), of which he was today a business delegate. Its commitment has been on all fronts, marked by a single great objective: the defence of the rights of workers and workers, citizens and citizens in difficult situations. Hello Franco, hello, comrade of many battles! This is the statement of the CGIL of the Province BAT. Franco Dambra was also an exemplary politician, holding important roles in the former Italian Communist Party and the position of deputy mayor of Barletta. They bear witness to his patience, courtesy, smile, competent preparation and endless availability, at any time and condition: qualities that belonged to him absolutely. He was especially popular with young people, students and workers, to whom he had special attention. I had the privilege of knowing him from a young age, very early in political commitment. It was a pleasure and enrichment to dialogue with him. Informed and profound in his analysis, he provided original and useful ideas, expressed with extreme conviction, to demonstrate his uncommon capacity for reflection and maturation of problems. He spoke to you at a very short distance, looking you in the eye, to pay more attention to interlocution. Dear Franco, you have been a shining example of an attentive, just, active and supportive citizen. Thank you for giving us your civil commitment. For the example left, your life smells of eternity. To your loved ones we offer heartfelt condolences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-455.ana.u16	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
