ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 24 March. The items on today's agenda, which do not include closing hours, remain confirmed. Tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with direct television broadcast, the Minister of the ecological transition will inform on the recent increases in the cost of energy and on the measures of the government to counter its effects. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes, with the exception of the Mixed Group, to which fifteen minutes are allocated. At the end of the information, the session will be suspended to resume at 3 p.m. with the general discussion on the decree-law so-called support-b. Tomorrow's session will end at 6 p.m. to allow senators to participate in a religious function at the church of Santa Maria sopra Minerva. Thursday morning will take place the replies of the speakers and the Government on the decree-law support- ter. Since the Government has announced the position of the question of trust on an amendment entirely replacing the decree-law, the Conference of Leaders has organised the relevant debate. We will go straight to the explanations of vote on confidence. He'll follow you. Next week's calendar provides for the discussion at first reading of the draft Constitutional Law on Sport in the Constitution and, from the writing site, of the bill for the declaration of national monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento. On Wednesday 23 March, at 3.30 p.m., communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022 remain confirmed. The timing of the debate was divided between the groups. Thursday, March 24, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place. The timetable may be supplemented by a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until March 24: [[Tuesday 15 March h. 16.30 - Doc. XXXIV, n. 8 - Report on the activity carried out by the Copasir from 1 January 2021 to 9 February 2022 - Drawing of Law n. 728-B - Enhancement of local food productions (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law n. 878 - Short-chain food products (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (by the drafting seat) - Information of the Minister for the ecological transition on the recent increases in the cost of energy and on the measures of the Government to counter its effects (Wednesday 16, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of Law n. 2505 - Decree-Law n. 4, Support-b (schedule 28 March) Wednesday 16 " h. 9.30-18 Thursday 17 " h. 9.30 Friday 18 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, March 22, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 747 and related - Sport in the Constitution (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 2166 - Declaration of National Monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento (from the preparing seat) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022 (Wednesday 23, at 15.30) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules (Thursday 24, at 15) Wednesday 23 " h. 9.30 Thursday 24 " h. 9.30]] Amendments to Constitutional Act No 747 and related (Sport in the Constitution) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 18 March. The timetable may be supplemented by a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2505 (Decree-Law No. 4, Support-b) [[Rapporteurs 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which M5S 27' L-SP-PSd'Az 24' FIBP-UDC 21' Mixed 21'+5' PD 19' FdI 14'+5' IV-PSI 13' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 11' Dissentents to be established]] Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 15' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u8	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that the timetable has been adopted unanimously. Of course, the spirit in which it was adopted also urges us to commit ourselves to parliamentary work. We would have liked to have included a motion on the agenda on the reduction of excise duties and the reduction of VAT on fuels, but there was no room. However, by adhering to the spirit of unanimity in which the Conference of the Leaders approved this timetable, we cannot fail to urge the Government to take action and take measures to this effect, as soon as possible, hopefully already in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u9	Thank you, Senator Candiani, also for the emphasis on the unity of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on document XXXIV, No 8. The report has already been printed and distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Urso, President of the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken for the second time in this House since I was elected President of Copasir in June last year. I did so only during the Government's communications on the war in Ukraine, to take into account the alarms expressed by the Committee in its reports on Russia's aggressive posture in Ukraine and, more generally, in Europe and the enlarged Mediterranean, in the Balkans, Libya and the Sahel, Africa; an increased threat over time, aimed at encircling Europe, including through the control of energy and raw materials, ready to use all means in a modern, terrible and pervasive hybrid war. We had highlighted the Russian military deployment around Ukraine, as well as the consequences of the constitutional referendum in Belarus, which would cancel the neutrality of that country, thus allowing Russian troops to act, even with nuclear devices, from Belarus. We had highlighted over time, even in previous reports, the action of Russian espionage and recruitment in our country; the pervasiveness of Russian penetration in Europe, aimed at conditioning democratic institutions; the aggressive action carried out in the new war domains, in space and in cyber and the systematic use of Wagner mercenaries, not only in Africa. We had written, among other things, and I quote: '[...] a military escalation in Ukraine could lead to a further worsening of the situation, which would also be ruinous, especially for Italy, which owes more than 40% of gas imports to Moscow. We wrote it down. Furthermore, on energy security, the Copasir produced a specific report to Parliament on 9 January of this year, at the end of more than six months of study. In that report we highlighted the need to free ourselves from foreign dependence, all the more so from countries such as Russia, which use energy as a power factor. In that report we pointed out some solutions, which are then the solutions that the government is now preparing to launch in the wake of the emergency. Already then we talked about the need to double national gas production, to diversify sources, to use the state's replacement power for the solar and wind power plants that were blocked. We were already talking about the fourth generation of nuclear power and the hypothesis of nuclear fusion, which President Draghi quoted a few days ago in the House of Deputies. They were all indications already contained in our report on energy security. Just as, in the conclusion of the report, we clearly indicated the absolute need to implement a national energy security plan in order to achieve strategic, technological and productive autonomy in the Western European framework, which we are finally talking about in the face of the emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally discussing national security thoroughly on the basis of the Copasir's annual report of 14 February. This is important news. Ladies and gentlemen - as we said in the beginning of the report - it has never happened in the past that an annual report by the Copasir or an annual report by the Presidency of the Council were examined in this House. Law No 124 of 2007, fifteen years ago, provides for these two reports which have never been examined in Parliament, either in Parliament or in the Commission. For this reason, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the Presidency and the parliamentary groups for having shared the need - as I hope every year - for a specific parliamentary session. This was what we asked for in the premise of our annual report; a parliamentary session such as the one that takes place every year on justice, with legislative consequences. In recent years, only one debate has taken place in this House on a subject for which Copasir was responsible, in 2009, with then President Rotelli. This was the case with the interceptions on which, incidentally, many years later, on 21 October last year, we were forced to make a report to Parliament ourselves. In our report on the system of interceptions we denounced how a situation of absolute discretion on the modalities and criteria by which mandates are entrusted to carry out judicial interceptions also concerning the conservation or destruction of the same. I would remind everyone that we are under European infringement procedure, because the prosecutors do not intend to implement what is laid down in a specific European directive and what is laid down in Italian law. We are waiting for the Minister of Justice to keep what he promised to do during the hearing. In other cases, however, our reports have been followed by concrete actions. I am referring, for example, to cybersecurity, which was the subject of our first report to Parliament at the beginning of the parliamentary term. It has led to the extension of golden power to the telecommunications sector, to the realization of the national perimeter on cybersecurity, to the birth, albeit only last June, with more than ten years of delay, of the Agency for national cybersecurity. On the other hand, we have not been followed up by our request at the time to identify a crime that would allow the perpetrators of the attacks to be prosecuted properly and to prepare an active defence, which will obviously be discussed in the next few days. In this report, we also highlight the need to implement as soon as possible the national cloud of public administration, the single public-controlled network, a strategic policy for maritime connection, European technological and productive autonomy in the digital economy. Unfortunately - ladies and gentlemen - there has not been enough attention even when we noticed that Russia is the most equipped state in the cybernetic war and today we have to think about how to eliminate the criticalities that may arise from the fact that Russian antivirus software is used as Trojan horses. In these hours the Government - of course also at our request - will take other necessary measures of which we have been properly informed - as always happens - in a full and loyal confrontation between the institutional bodies. The same is true - even more so - of Chinese technology, which is far more pervasive, as we have shown three years ago and reiterated in this report, and which, unfortunately, is not successful, calls for the use of Chinese technology in the telecommunications system to be inhibited. Other indications of the Committee have been incorporated and taken into account in this report, for example with the extension of golden power to the financial and banking sector and other important strategic assets of the country, including the health chain; or with the criminal law that punishes the detention of material for terrorist purposes. I am also thinking of the indication contained in our report on how to combat Islamic radicalisation and the new forms of jihadist terrorism, which we presented following the fall of Kabul into the Taliban regime. This indication has recently been transposed by the House's Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, therefore, we have taken a step forward. Surely there is much more to be done. In our annual report we have highlighted some strategic assets of the country that we have dealt with in our annual activity: from research to university, to the protection of patents of technology, from the digital economy to port infrastructures, from the steel industry to the automotive one, from semiconductors to batteries, from hydrogen to the recycling of precious minerals, from the new dual competition on space to the defence industry. On space as a geopolitical factor - today we are talking about interspace war - and on European defence we are about to conclude, after months of investigation, two specific reports that we will present to you in the next few days; investigations that we have not by chance activated after the wretched withdrawal from Afghanistan. In the annual report, however, we have already pointed out a number of observations on European defence. Specifically, we have anticipated that it already seemed insufficient to us, well before the Russian invasion in Ukraine, a forecast of just 5,000 soldiers as a European rapid force, in view of the fact that only Italy employs 9,200 soldiers on international missions. In this report, too, we have told you how inadequate the resources provided for in the European Union's multiannual financial framework have appeared to us; resources that have been halved compared to the previous budget. Now, of course, everything will change under the pressure of war - as Germany has done - and, if Germany has, you understand that we have to do so too. But let us ask ourselves whether the Russian threat is not also the result of European distraction, of our unwillingness to see what was happening. We can't do this anymore. Let's have it. This is also why a broad chapter of the report concerns economic intelligence, all the more important in the face of the hybrid war that has been going on for years, not since today, and of which the main issue is our enlarged Mediterranean. It is a hybrid war in which authoritarian systems (China and Russia in the lead, but not only) aspire to technological and economic supremacy also through the control of the energy and food resources of the planet, from gas to water, of raw materials, precious minerals and rare earths, of everything that serves the digital and ecological economy - we must absolutely realize it - but it is falling under their control. Who has not noticed (we have noticed) that in recent months six military coups have taken place, of which five have succeeded, in four countries of the Sahel, in two of which obviously have called the mercenaries of Wagner? Economic intelligence and cyber intelligence bond with each other. To put it to your attention, we have conducted a confrontation with some Western democracies, with our Western democracies, the United States, France, Japan and Sweden, who have long developed economic intelligence, to understand what can be done, more and better, in democratic countries, to protect our technology and our businesses, our science and creativity, our society and, therefore, our freedoms. Something has been done with current legislation, at our request fully shared by the Government, and we also acknowledge this to the Undersecretary Gabrielli, as we did in our report. But even more needs to be done, with specific legislative changes, because what has been done so far is in existing legislation. It is Parliament's job to change the law. In this context, we have pointed out that the golden power instrument is useful, necessary, but not sufficient. We also need an industrial policy that aims to preserve and, if possible, strengthen the country's strategic assets. The same tool as the golden power, greatly strengthened in recent years, is still little used. Look at the reports to Parliament on golden power. We say that because, sometimes, Parliament is distracted. The golden power instrument itself, which has been considerably strengthened over the past few years at the Committee's own initiative, needs to be further adapted to the evidence that it has been put into practice. The case of Alpi Aviation, a small company with a high technological content, which we have examined and which we take into account in our report, on which the Government has recently intervened, blocking the sale to a Chinese state-owned company, has determined us to ask that the golden power instrument also include preventive monitoring action, in order to protect small and medium-sized enterprises with high technological content, as happens in other countries, such as the United States. This is in our relationship. Our report always has a precise method of empirical work: it starts from a specific case, such as the one mentioned above and takes into account our requests to the Government to act within the limits of existing legislation. This is the case during hearings (see the number of hearings held last year, especially in the second part of the year) or through specific information notes to the competent authorities (read the specific information notes we sent and to whom we sent them). Finally, through the reports to Parliament, we urge the legislator to intervene. For example, in the field of monitoring the work of the intelligence sector, on which there is a whole chapter and which is the Committee's main task, we found the Marco Polo Council case. Our activity in this regard has allowed the authority of the sector to prepare a first measure on the incompatibility of the summits of the Intelligence after the cessation of the service. A measure published on an extraordinary basis in the Official Journal, so that third parties may be aware of it. Now we need to improve the legislative framework, which is Parliament's job. As well as, I hope, I hope, other bodies of the State will also do as far as they are competent. In the final part of the report, we therefore provide some guidance on what we consider necessary to amend in Law 124. An excellent law, but passed in 2007, fifteen years ago, when the hybrid war was not even imaginable, when Russia was basically still in the spirit of Sea Practice. In the report, we say that it is already necessary to do so-called ordinary maintenance, but absolutely necessary, and we also list the points where action is needed. At the same time, however, we have pointed out that legislation needs to be revised more significantly also with regard to the architecture and expertise of intelligence agencies. For this reason, we have announced that, in the next and final report at the end of the legislature, at the end of further investigation, we will provide our relevant information in a preventive comparison to the Copasir with the Government. Among other things, we have dealt with one issue, which emerged in both this parliamentary term and the previous one, concerning the composition of the Committee at the time when the majority-opposition parliamentary position changed. In the previous parliamentary term he had been pleaded with a transitional legend, increasing the number of members of the Committee: have we forgotten that? We have not forgotten that. We have therefore proposed in this report a regulatory solution allowing the Presidents of the Chambers to intervene when the majority-opposition distribution changes to regulate the Committee's activities, which in fact, in the first six months of last year - see the number of hearings and speeches - had practically reduced to a small number, almost paralyzing itself compared to what we did in the second part of the year. The work of the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic cannot be paralyzed; it cannot, of course, be done today. Ladies and gentlemen, reading the combined provisions of the annual report and the report on energy security, someone wrote that the Copasir had foreseen what would happen - some journalists have been psyched on this - with military aggression in Ukraine. Something significant we had said in the ways in which we could say it, of course, on the basis of the secret hearings that we had held and, therefore, the information that we ourselves received, because our source of information is the hearings: the Intelligence, the Government, the authorities that we summon, nothing else, to avoid misunderstandings. Now we must react, aware that we are at a turning point in history, to an epochal passage. The world we dreamed of is gone and maybe there wasn't even yesterday; there is a before and after, and it doesn't help to recriminate or reproach, or worse still put in trouble the opponent or ally for what he had declared in other times, in another historical age, when he had other information. This is a game of massacre that the country doesn't need. It is the moment of unity and responsibility, as they have been realized (unity and responsibility) in the resolution that defines what Italy's position on the war in Ukraine should be: a war that concerns us, because it is a part of the hybrid war that, with different but equally devastating means, authoritarian systems have developed towards Western democracies to subdue us and, if you like, even to some extent to take away our freedoms. It is also a problem for the West. Let me give you an example that must be clear to everyone, because technology develops, and today technology allows algorithms - through facial recognition and only through that - to understand what are the political opinions of the citizen who is subjected to facial recognition, without other information. You understand well what this means compared to countries where social control of dissent is prevalent and in countries such as ours where the privacy and freedoms of individuals, communities and nations are fundamental. That is why I hope that the same unity and responsibility will be realized whenever we address the issues of the security of the Republic, which is not only control over intelligence; I say this in the absence of misunderstandings. The parliamentary committee for the security of the Republic, already in its name, which Parliament chose in 2007, unlike the previous Copaco, is not limited to the control of intelligence - it also does that, of course - and it is not limited to the apparatuses of the State either, because we are not talking about state security. The name refers to the security of the Republic, which is something more and different - the legislator has been far-sighted - than the control of intelligence or even simply the control of state security. That is why we have dealt with thematic reports: we have done six in this parliamentary term, of which three in the last six months. The arguments seem irrelevant to those who do not look from the perspective of national security, but today we know how important the report we have made on financial security and the insurance system of our country, in the face of the decisions that - for example - Europe and the Western world have had to take on financial sanctions against Russia. In the same way, we realize how important the cyber-security report of three years ago was, regarding the possibility of a cybernetic attack in our country and the measures that must be taken to prevent that, through the Trojan horse of technology, we can expropriate our information or, worse still, trigger a cybernetic war in our country. I hope, therefore, that the same unity and responsibility will be fulfilled whenever we speak of security to the Republic and that at last every year there will be a report, with a meeting with final resolutions, in which the report of the Presidency of the Council, which is held every year in February and the annual report of the Copasir, will be examined and compared, so that Parliament and the country can be aware of how the needs of the Republic's security change, with respect, of course, to what happens in every international context. I believe that this is useful for Parliament to come up with the necessary measures. I believe that in this case we could really say that we have responded to the needs of the country. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we must realise that we cannot escape history, even if we may wish to. We cannot escape from history and history today requires us to take the necessary measures immediately as regards our defence, our security and the strategic assets of our country to face, together with the other Western democracies, in our European Union and in our Atlantic Alliance what we have before us. We cannot escape history, but we can change history. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u12	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank the President, Senator Urso, for what he has inevitably explained to us in summary terms, because, given the richness and the wide and important series of issues dealt with, his oral report, which complements what has already been written, could only be a summary in summary terms. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee for their work, which is obviously particularly important in this case, both as a team and as a municipality, because it must be common interest in national security. One of the most important aspects that emerges from this report and also in general of intelligence activity, is that of cybersecurity, cybersecurity. This is an increasingly important aspect, because technology enters the everyday life of everyone and, more importantly, it is essential in the everyday life of companies, institutions and our armed forces. As I said, it is therefore an extremely important aspect, to the point that NATO has made it clear that the basic rule of the North Atlantic Treaty from an organisational point of view - Article 5, which requires all Member States to intervene in defence of one of them, if attacked - should apply also in the event of cyber attacks, and not only in the case of the classic military attacks, for which there was obviously no doubt. This is an extremely important aspect, because a computer attack can cause serious damage in a country: it can paralyse economic sectors and it can cause serious damage in the finance sector, since obviously the computer tool is now indispensable even in the smallest of banking branches, it can block the distribution of energy, it can block aqueducts. In the report on which we have heard the Committee president's oral integration, and which is at our disposal, this issue is dealt with in a broad way. The National Agency for Cybersecurity has just been set up and for which - as I pointed out on that occasion - I believe there is a need for much greater ambitions: one cannot think of creating a small bureaucratized agency, with some executive appointed on the basis of more political than technical reasoning in an area like this, which would be reductive to define competitive. When computer engineers practice to become more and more good, more and more able to respond to the security needs of the companies or institutions in which they work or work, they simply compete with each other and divide into two teams: on the one hand, someone tries to violate the security of that bank or that agency and - on the other hand - someone else tries to defend security and wins the best. Whoever defends himself, of course, has greater margins, as in all sectors, but wins the best. It is clear, therefore, that having someone who is good, who is good, who has listened to something cybersecurity is of no use, because in this duel the opponent is potentially - obviously not always - of a very high level. More attention must therefore be paid to this, bearing in mind that cybersecurity must not only be passive but also able to act, that is to say it must not only be able - although this, of course, is essential - to defend itself as effectively as possible against attacks, violations of secrecy and even data retention, but it must also be able and credible in carrying out counterattack actions, because that is what happens. The experts in the sector explain that there is a chance that sooner or later an attack will be successful and if we are only defending ourselves, of course those who attack, that is, those who try to enter the computer systems, try and try again and if it succeeds it has won, because it knows that it will not have reactions. Unfortunately, many experts point out that Italy is particularly weak in this respect. The Cybersecurity Agency is a step forward, but it is a little too little and needs to be enhanced in its quality and also in its ability to react. In no way should this aspect be underestimated. Let us remember that one of the main ways in which cyber attacks take place is the so-called ransomware, that is, an attack in exchange for a ransom: they steal data from an important institution, for example from a bank, and they ask for a more or less substantial amount of money to return them, because the quickest way of realizing for those who have stolen data - unless they have done so, as in some cases, for industrial, economic or other espionage purposes - is precisely to get money given by the institution whose confidentiality has been violated. The institution that is the victim has an interest in not letting it know, because otherwise its image is damaged. Therefore, the fact that there is no news of this type of attack does not mean that this kind of attack has not already happened and, unfortunately, in some cases there may have been some successes. We therefore need a great deal of attention in this respect. The work done by our intelligence services and the Republic Security Committee itself is therefore extremely important, although by its very nature it tends to be obscure. I would like to mention another aspect which I find very interesting in the report: the question of state secrecy. There have been several requests from Parliament to overcome the secret of state on certain aspects: much has been said about the issue of the serious attack on the synagogue, the great Jewish temple of Rome, when in 1982 a child was killed and there were several wounded, including the brother of this child. Well, there have been very disturbing circumstances on the issue, that is, that no kind of protection had been sent precisely on that evening, although there have been reports of the concrete and imminent danger of a terrorist activity precisely to the detriment of the Jewish community at the most solemn moment of their life, that is the functions in the synagogue. The secret of state is understandable and one of the resources that the state must have, but there is a discipline and a law that say when, by whom and how the secret of state should be placed. Lately we have a similar attitude, as on state secrecy, to the purely commercial and economic operations carried out by the Extraordinary Commissioner for the management of the pandemic and we have tabled agendas to ask for clarity on all economic operations for the purchase of materials and services. Well, we have been told that we cannot respond on matters of confidentiality. Too bad there is a law, the anti-corruption law that much has been talked about and which has been given much importance, which says that public administration expenditure must be made known promptly for issues of transparency and to combat corruption, except where there is state secrecy. When there is no state secret, there must be transparency. The instrument of state secrecy is important, but the instrument of transparency and clarity in relations between the citizen and public administration is very important in democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u14	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must be grateful to the Copasir for having brought to this House for the first time a document which, although provided for by law, was only deposited so far. On the other hand, the report is an important contribution to Parliament's work and it is good that the attention and discussion, as much as possible, in this House is called for. In the same way, I believe that we should express gratitude to the director of the DIS for having sent us - again, I believe for the first time - a letter with the link of the annual report on the information policy for security of 2021, which is very useful also for the purposes of this debate. The two reports - the one presented by President Urso and the one transmitted to us by Director Belloni - I believe they deal with very important issues relating to our present and even more to our future. I am referring to the winds of war, the risks to national security and nuclear risks: fundamental issues that we must address. Together with them, however, I would like to remind you that there is still a part of our history that is still smoky, that is, linked to situations that have never been fully clarified. This is also an important task for discussion and for the development of a reasoning that leads to significant progress. Twelve strands of inquiry by single-chamber parliamentary committees and bicameral investigations into terrorism and massacres have not completely completed their work, in the sense that there is not yet a shared truth. This must necessarily be done to the full. I will only focus on those aspects of the report which relate to this second strand, namely our past history and the need for a mature democracy to fully understand its history. I leave it to other colleagues of the Group of which I am a member (Democratic Party), Senator D'Arienzo and Senator Pinotti, the task of addressing the issues related to defence and related to today. I believe that there are parts in the report that significantly recognise the important role that the Commission for the Library and Historical Archives of the Senate has played in these four years. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, Senator Rauti and Senator Doria, for this. The report recognises a line of archival policy that can and must be followed by all public administrations that hold a heritage that testifies to the history of our country. The agenda approved in the budget session, although challenging to the Historical Archives of the Senate, commits the Government in the same way and with more force to conform to the discipline of the Urban Code. In other words, the correspondences of the Ministries, Government Agencies and other public administrations are not only traces of the decision-making process followed for an administrative appeal or a research of the previous one; they are also cultural assets and as such must be protected. This can be done on the one hand by guaranteeing their orderly conservation, according to uniform archival inventory criteria; on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure consultation for all those who, free from political circumstances or interests dictated by current events, intend to put their mind to the history of our country. The 50-year rule - or even less, when a directive by the President of the Council of Ministers identifies a particular event worthy of immediate knowledge - is a good balance. This has been recognized by the competent Department of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in response to our massive question on the Moro strand of the Commission's slaughters. We therefore expect this balance to be equally recognised by all users who turn to public and private archives and to access the testimonies of our national history. It is not for me to interpret Law No. 124 of 2007, i.e. the State Secret Act. Already the report to our examination does so in a sufficiently problematic way to highlight some application frailties which, in fact, exclude the obligation to invest the Copasir whenever a document on which the terms for refusal of consultability are delineated is excluded from public evidence. I merely note that, as happened in the past thanks to our desecrations, even the current disciplines of the archives of the Secret Services can be made known, at least to the Copasir, in order to be able to influence their possible applicative opacity. I recall the twelve tragic occasions that have given rise to the three directives - the Prodi, Renzi and Draghi directives - which I would like to recall in the sad re-enactment of the Spoon River of our republican history: the Prodi Directive of 8 April 2008 on the abduction and death of Mr Moro; the Renzi Directive of 22 April 2014 on Piazza Fontana, Gioia Tauro, Peteano, police of Milan, Piazza della Loggia, Italicus, Ustica, Bologna station, Rapido 904; the Draghi Directive of 2 August 2021 on the organization of Gladio and the Masonic Loggia P2. They do not exhaust the scope of acts classified as being the subject of an investigation by the Commission. Even after 2001 important documentary acquisitions have been made by other Committees of Inquiry for which, at least in perspective, a progressive declassification should be carried out according to the same criteria as those laid down in our agenda. Finally, I would like to focus on some shortcomings that historiographical research still records for events that even emerge a century later. The personal file of the inmate Antonio Gramsci in the prison of Turi is still unavailable, we do not know if for the archival sloppy of the administrations that have succeeded in the management of the prisons, by malice or by characters who, at the fall of the regime, wanted to hide their responsibilities. I believe that a figure like Gramsci, who has trained entire generations of Italian scholars and citizens, deserves much more treatment. In the same way I express the hope that the Military Staff will agree to its consent to a research on the archives of the First World War, aimed at knowing still obscure events related to the treatment of deserters and pacifists who, in the case of the decimation after the defeat of Caporetto, had archival traces in the minutes of summary judgments at the time drawn up. I also think of Matteotti, of whom in two years' time we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of death following the barbarian and brutal assassination. We still don't have court records because the Ministry of Justice and its archives... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marilotti, I must invite you to conclude. Mr Marilotti (PD). I finish with the last joke because Matteotti deserves much more: his blood is the seed on which republican democracy has grown. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u16	Thank you, Senator Marilotti. It is precisely because of the argument that I have given you extra time.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u17	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u18	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the President of Copasir, Senator Urso, for his report. Firstly, I think it is good that we are debating the Copasir's Annual Report, which has worked very quickly and effectively on a number of important issues, dealing - as President Urso reminded us - with industrial policies and energy issues. The Copasir has dealt - as President Urso recalled - with industrial policy, energy issues and of course the issues more closely within the competence of the body, from cybersecurity to the specific themes of the matter and the sector. I had read the report, which is, of course, much more extensive and full of ideas than the debate in this House allows us to represent, and I want to highlight a number of issues very quickly. First, we live a historical phase in which the dramatic chronicle of these hours makes us understand how we cannot live on the holiday of history. Today the issues of security, understood as defence (investment in military defence, arms, structures that must protect people), have returned tragically to the present day. There is the issue of energy and there is no need to talk about it: costs, supplies and so on. Today we think that intensifying supplies from Algeria and Congo is a salvation, and perhaps it is, but in the course of history - not a hundred and fifty thousand years ago - those countries have also been involved in wars and tensions. So today they are fine as an alternative to a dangerous scenario, but God knows what can happen in fifty or one hundred years, times that in the course of history seem far away but are short. There is the theme of energy autonomy. Today one of the problems in Ukraine is nuclear power stations, which could be at the center of bombings or accidents. Ukraine, which is not a country at the top of the world like Italy, on nuclear is ahead of us, which instead we have renounced that technology. Even in these days we are talking about it, but if we left today - and we do not leave today - we would need whole lustres. We are talking about excellent alternative energies with which you can heat a good tea or some palace, but I would like to see how you can solve the production of steel and aluminum, railway mobility and anything else with excellent alternative energies. Defense and energy, but also power: these are three primary factors. I should put the food first, because if you don't eat it's useless to think about defending yourself or warming up. Hence all the issues such as the price of wheat and primary imports. We must therefore reflect - and I do so on the occasion of this report - on the fact that a country like Italy - but also Europe - which has systems of arms and spending that overlap, must think of a common defence, because defence is needed: if we want to help people who are attacked, we cannot just wave flags or send e-mails, but we also need, as is happening, to send weapons. I hope, of course, that there will not be an extension of the conflict. I repeat: there are the issues of food, the productions to be intensified in order to have greater self-sufficiency, energy, which we now import here and now. The good guys and the bad guys on the planet take turns, so those today are good guys who know if they're gonna be that guy tomorrow. The safety issues are also these, but I come back to the report, because these are general issues. I would like to thank President Urso - and the Committee which approved the report - for not only referring to the fundamental issues of life and the freedom of peoples, but also to a number of things. I thank him for the clarifications on the Marco Polo Council, which concerned the former director Manenti, and therefore the need to regulate subsequent activities. Those who have directed the Security Services have had an important career and also important regulatory and economic guarantees, so they have limitations in their next career, as happens for those who are in government. It happened: if you go to the government then you can not assume for a certain period some assignments. In short, limits for those who have the high honor to perform functions of a certain type apply even after. I believe that the fact that the report referred to this matter is very important to me and should lead to a reflection to see whether the rules are sufficient or whether they should be increased. The House may not have fully grasped what President Urso said; when there are no votes, there are those who listen and those who do not listen. The report says that prosecutors in Italy do not comply with European directives on interception. Look at this, but think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a certain excess of wiretapping; not an excess because they make too many, but because they do not respect the European directives. Then, in the field of security and intelligence, there are additional activities, but this also deals with the report, the issue of the regulation of essential activities. I know you don't fight international crime without wiretap. Then technologies, cybersecurity and their evolution are important. We are also talking about the destruction of materials since electronic media allow a much easier dissemination. Thank you, Mr Urso, for pointing out in the report the case of prosecutors, who are angry if they try to reform justice, whereas they should respect European regulations because otherwise Europe is only invoked in some cases. There is also an important reference to an affair that I have experienced as a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro in the last parliamentary term. As members of a Commission with investigative powers, we have had access to documents from the Services that we have consulted in the constraint of secrecy. This bond is also valid later, except for the fact that those secret things then I read them in the newspapers. I remember an article published a couple of years ago by the newspaper "La Stampa" which talked about a story that you touched, the Lodo Moro, the story of 1980. In this article it was said that the famous colonel Giovannone related in that dramatic summer, which is then the summer of Ustica and the massacre of Bologna, the intensification of possible reactions. There was terrorism, an export of arms that was not Colombia's, the Palestinians carrying weapons to the Red Brigades. In short, there was a situation since the late '70s. Mr Urso, we would like to welcome the hope that the Copasir has renewed, also urged by the Moro Commission in the last parliamentary term to the then President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, to descret those acts. The report in fact distinguishes the archives of the Senate and the Chamber, but there are the acts that are in the offices of the Services. I am not talking about it because I have had the opportunity to consult them in the last parliamentary term, and I have done so. Then I read things in the papers, but I can't even tell if they're true or false. The discussion on the Lodo Moro essentially concerned the protection of Italy, in those years also from Palestinian terrorism. Italy somehow closed an eye if there were transits and was thus less bersagliata. This, however, did not spare us the attack on the Synagogue of Rome or Fiumicino airport. Senator Zanda, who knows the history of Italy from within and as an expert, nods. In those years, however, it was worse for other countries. I do not dispute; history is made up of agreements and clashes. On that matter, however, I hope that your request will be implemented. The descretation of the acts of the Services will allow us to evaluate the events of Ustica and the massacre of Bologna on which, with reference to the latter, there have been judgments. I do not discuss such sentences, but you can read and see other things. Forty-two years have passed since a tragic and historical affair. The Middle East is still a powder keg and unfortunately there is no longer Colonel Giovannone to protect Italy. We hope that the young people of these years will be equally capable. This is a chapter that must be discovered, a descretation that must take place. I would like to reiterate this appeal made by the Moro Commission and by a parliamentary act such as the Copasir report. You know that on the Bologna massacre there are still ongoing trials of characters who add to those condemned. It's a story that never ends. These historical acts may or may not have a connection; this would assess who should they be desecrated. These acts are armored. There are many other ideas, but starting to conclude, I note that in recent days I have read in the newspapers a little 'of concern, expressed also by the undersecretary Gabrielli who has given very measured interviews, corresponding to the role he plays and the career he has had, about some aspects that in the field of cybersecurity make sure that we have systems of a Russian society that also supervise the computer security of our institutions, including Palazzo Chigi. You see, even now, history changes. At Pratica di Mare it was hoped that Russia would dialogue with the Western world, then the political one was not continued and the historical hegemonic tendency of Russia returns that - I inform the distracted - from some centuries ago the wars in Crimea and Ukraine. Cavour sent in 1853 the soldiers of the Kingdom of Sardinia - think about it - to the Crimean war, which was more or less the same as now; there was the tsar who wanted territories, now there are other successors who want other lands. President Urso, I would like clarity then. Are these Russian import systems invalid or invalid? Does our cybersecurity have to be entrusted to all of this? I put this question in terms of topicality. We have set up the National Cybersecurity Agency, we have problems, which suppliers do we need to address? As a last question, on pages 82 and 83 of the report we are talking about meetings between politicians and members of the Services, which are always not recommended. I am not talking about topical matters, but I would like to understand, if it has been regulated, whether there are any minutes. If one goes to a meeting and doesn't know that one is a secret agent (being secret doesn't reveal his nature, otherwise what secret agent is he?), if one meets parliamentarians at a dinner, all this is profiled, is it written? It can happen casually, because he's a secret agent. As the report deals with the issue on pages 82 and 83 - I am referring to quotations - I ask President Urso to reply. Finally, I would like to address the issue of cybersecurity entrusted to a Russian company, whose name is Kaspersky, which is pronounced in the Russian and not the English way. That is precisely the problem: wouldn't this second option be better? What do we do? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u19	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Copasir and Mr Urso for the report and the delegated authority for the work they are doing. There was no provision for me to intervene for my group, but I asked for a few minutes because, listening to the report, I had some thoughts that I would like to put to the House. The first is related to cybersecurity. Listening to Senator Malan's speech and following the report, I must say that it is undoubtedly an issue that creates great alarm and on which we must run. The Defence Commission has carried out an in-depth investigation on this issue and not just on defence, precisely because the cyber threat can come from any area and then touch on the issue of security. We have therefore seen that we are beginning to move the right steps, but we must run. What I would like to say to this House and also to Mr Gabrielli, is that - in my opinion - the approach given to the Agency is the right one, and Mr Malan is right when he says that implementation is needed. However, the architecture that has been given to the Agency is designed precisely to promote this implementation, and in a sense also to respond to the concern mentioned now by Senator Gasparri. This is also one of the tasks of the Agency. If we do not implement the Italian autonomous production of these systems, with the capabilities of our young people involving the university, we must use foreign systems; in this case we put a special magnifying glass, because it is a Russian society, but in general in any case it can be systems that put national security at risk. The approach is therefore the right one. I have seen that in recent years, when we began to adapt to the directives, we have managed to catch up with other European countries for many things. We are aware that we must run, but I would like to say that, as far as I know, the approach is correct and the structure can allow implementation, which is what we need from all points of view, not only in control but also in production. In fact, without a safe production of cyber security systems, the whole issue of control comes to "bomb," but unfortunately the damage could already have been done. I take a few more minutes, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight one aspect. Senator Urso said that, on the subject of European defence, an answer with a force of rapid action of 5,000 soldiers makes quite a smile and I share this view. However, let us remember that until recently in Europe we could not talk about the meetings of the defence ministers (now they will only be informal). Nor could it be mentioned that some form of dual financing was included, but could refer to defence. I say this because at least a few steps forward in this respect have been taken. Today there are funds, but they are still very limited. However, there is the idea of starting to build common forces. Senator Urso, this House as a whole, there is no doubt that European defence cannot be left in the hands of the Commission alone, otherwise it will be able to produce a force that, instead, of 5,000 is 7,500 or 10,000. As far as European defence is concerned, the defence of individual states, which have their own strength - Prime Minister Draghi said he was amazed that, like Europe, we spend twice as much as Russia - means, however, deciding to give up sovereignty. Therefore, it is a decision that the Heads of Governments must take and cannot be a decision of the Commission alone. If we all believe that without that instrument, Europe has no voice in geopolitics, I believe that we should all spend on this. I say this because in the defence committee we voted on a resolution on this, with a number of proposals, although probably very limited compared to what is happening. I asked to be able to discuss it in this House, because I believe that such a debate should be held here. Since I spoke with my Parent Company, I know that for now few groups are supporting this proposal. I say to you: let's do it, because there are so many issues to discuss. But we have to do it. [[Applause]] France has nuclear capacity. How do we handle it, how do you fit into a common defense? How can we make sure that there is not only one person in charge with others who have to follow him? There is a whole political part for Parliament to work on, and I think it is wrong for an Assembly like this to address these issues when it has to talk about Copasir. Very well, but the Copasir talks about many other things. As President of the Defence Commission, I would say that perhaps this is a debate that we should be able to bring to this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u21	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the work of the Copasir under discussion today, which was excellently presented by President Urso, whom I thank for his daily work with the Committee, is the result of thorough and detailed work. The areas covered by the Copasir are varied and affect all areas which the Committee has considered sensitive from the point of view of national security. This is also evident in the index of the report. During the period covered by the Document, the Committee carried out several in-depth studies, which produced three thematic reports: on the discipline for the use of secreted contracts, including with regard to the rental of the different interception systems; on a more effective action to counter the phenomenon of radicalisation of the jihadist matrix; on energy security in the current phase of ecological transition. Three further investigations are under way on the following topics: aerospace domain, the new frontier of geopolitical competition; the prospects for developing common European defence and cooperation between intelligence services; how to implement the decree of acts and improve their conservation and access. The themes addressed range from internal issues, including an examination of Law No. 124 of 2007 with a view to its updating, to the wider international scenarios, which involve a careful analysis of the various geopolitical frameworks. We cannot fail to have as a framework, in addition to Europe, also the so-called enlarged Mediterranean, a strategic area for our country, to which it is necessary to devote particular attention. As President Urso has already said and as has been said for three weeks now, the madness of war has unfortunately come back to affect Europe. The Russian attacks in Ukraine call us to a deep reflection on the need to evaluate the foreign scenarios with extreme attention. It is necessary to strengthen the country's strategic assets especially from the point of view of cybersecurity since Italy has a high level of exposure. In this respect, I cannot fail to stress the need to implement a measure which places terrorist attacks and cyber attacks on the same level. The Committee is following with great attention all the complex developments related to the conflict in the various aspects (economic, energy, military, geopolitical); the cyber sphere and that of economic intelligence are also fundamental and, as mentioned in the Report, Italy has equipped itself with a dedicated Agency for cybersecurity and has strengthened economic intelligence both within the existing Agencies and working on the discipline of the exercise of special powers by the Government (the so-called golden power). Again in the field of economic intelligence, I would like to stress that internal emergencies include the infiltration of organised crime into the management of the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. This threat is worthy of particular attention and the Copasir will be regularly informed on this issue, which covers the whole country and in particular the Mezzogiorno of Italy. The information attention has shown the danger of intercepting national and European public funding; it is the latitude of the areas of intervention that demonstrates the interest of criminal associations, mafias, for example, for alternative energies, for the waste cycle, in the areas related to infrastructure, construction, also through the case of money laundering, evasion and illicit transfer of capital abroad; and finally, also the interest in restructuring operations within companies and companies in crisis condition, especially as a result of the negative dynamics determined by the pandemic or the fraudulent award of contracts. The report on the discipline for the use of secreted contracts, including the rental of the different interception systems, has aimed to shed light on a particularly important issue, which now has an authoritative observation point such as the Special Section of the Court of Auditors. The code of public contracts, as amended by Decree-Law No 28 of 2020, provides that the newly constituted Central Section for the control of secreted contracts, in addition to the functions already foreseen, also acquires control over the legitimacy of the decrees of secrecy of the tendering or custody procedures that involve access to information with "very reserved" or "superior" classification. In addition, the 2020 rule intervened on the recipient of the obligation to report the outcome of the monitoring activities: no longer Parliament, but Copasir. Until 2021 the report sent to Parliament has never been examined, as has already been said; for the first time - I repeat - the competent parliamentary body in the Copasir is therefore identified; the report submitted by the Court of Auditors has been properly examined. The first critical issue emerged and the small number of authorities fulfilling their reporting obligations to the Court to review secreted contracts. In particular, this figure is highly problematic with reference to the interception and collection systems on which a double contrast has been found: there is a contrast between the address deriving from European norms, rightly assumed as a guideline by the Ministry of Justice, and the aforementioned internal jurisprudence that must be overcome also in order to avoid the European infringement to which Italy has been subjected. The Committee will therefore monitor this profile, continuing the fruitful relationship established with the specific section together with the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Justice. With regard to interceptions, the Committee noted that, despite the assurances given, the Government has not yet intervened to address the problems of this sector, also in the direction of identifying unique basic requirements to be met by operators, as is the case in other sectors for which a process of qualification of economic operators is envisaged. The hope is therefore renewed that this reflection will take place in a short time. The need for regulatory measures to improve the rules governing the custody of this service has therefore been pointed out in a number of indispensable guidelines: the desirable overcoming of the recalled interpretative divergence between internal and Community law in the direction of an adjustment towards the latter for the protection of fundamental rights, with particular regard to privacy, thus putting an end to the infringement procedure imposed on our country; the need for control over contracts relating to the supply of the different interception systems to be ensured in effective terms; the balanced harmonisation of tariffs, with which the suppliers of this service are remunerated, in order to overcome the current framework, which presents significant differences in cost between the various judicial offices, which emerged also in previous Committee interlocations, and the confirmation of a direct approach to ensure that companies that make these instruments available meet precise reliability requirements, especially with regard to the protection of personal and sensitive data, also in the light of the repeated attacks on public and private computer systems that have resulted in the disclosure of information, as has also emerged in some judicial investigations on which the Committee has requested information elements to the competent judiciary. The Committee has decided to launch a further survey of how to implement the descretation of acts and improve their conservation and access, in order to implement effectively the directives issued by the Presidents of the Council in recent years: one before President Prodi in 2008, which made accessible documents in possession of the judiciary and the Committee of Inquiry into the massacres related to the abduction of Aldo Moro; in 2014, with another directive, President Renzi decided to extend accessibility to documents related to the events of 1969 (Fontana Square), 1984 (rapid 904), which characterized what is defined as the slaughter season; in 2021, President Draghi extended the limitation to documents related to Gladio and P2. The investigation started with press reports from the end of 2021 on the 9 October 1982 attack at the Synagogue in Rome. On this specific episode the Committee immediately activated itself, requesting from the delegated authority any clarification and useful documentation in this regard, in possession of the organs of the sector and not yet the subject of desecration and payment in the central archive of the State, pursuant to the directive of the President of the Council of 2014, also in relation to the so-called Moro praise and its possible impact on the actions of Palestinian organizations in the period between the seventies and the mid-eighties. The descretation of the acts responds concretely to the request made by the family associations of the victims of the massacres in order to make full light and justice, as an indispensable contribution to the reconstruction of dramatic events that have characterized the history of the Republic and the need for transparency, knowledge and accessibility of the acts coming from the researchers. These aims represent a duty which must be honoured by the state's apparatuses in various ways called into question. In conclusion, in order to reach the overcoming of every shadow zone on events that have torn the civil conscience of the country, the delicacy and the extreme articulation of the issues dealt with and the shared objective of protecting the supreme good of national security have accompanied themselves to a working method in which all the political parties have recognized each other in a united spirit, because common must be the protection of the strategic interests of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u24	Mr President, when, for the first time, Brothers of Italy asked for a session of Parliament on national security, the situation had not yet fallen. Unfortunately, the military aggression against Ukraine and the ongoing war have made today's debate even more urgent, necessary and dramatic. What is happening demonstrates the importance, both of the security of the Republic and of any decision taken, not only in the field of defence, but also in those of energy, technology, the digital economy and infrastructure. Among the important issues of the report are European defence and national security, assets that should be central to any political decision. But it is on another fundamental aspect that I am speaking, namely energy security, which is a crucial part to be presided over within a comprehensive strategy to defend national interest and on which the report reiterates the need for strengthening in the terms of so-called economic intelligence. On the energy issue, the Copasir presented last January a report to Parliament - as President Urso recalled - highlighting the criticalities of the system and the vulnerability, both in the face of the hegemonic action of the state actors, and the necessary ecological transition. In the same report, a number of solutions were also put forward which are, fortunately, the subject of urgent decrees or which are in the process of being evaluated. The report clearly stressed the need to implement an energy security plan that would progressively reduce our dependence on other countries and especially on the Russian Federation, aiming at energy independence and productive and technological autonomy, in collaboration, of course, with Western European partners, also in view of the geopolitical factors and risks that were being foreshadowed. The report also states that "The current scenario presents further weaknesses linked to the increase in prices, in particular gas, which has occurred in recent months and which is likely to mark the immediate future". As we know, unfortunately, that was the case. On these issues, the Committee has indicated the need and urgency to adopt a national energy security plan, aiming at an adequate technological and also productive autonomy of the country in the field of energy through the strengthening of national industrial and research chains. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a state of emergency and the situation could also lead us from here on - I say it could - to abandon Russia's gas and oil in whole or in part, and this is also one of the many dramatic consequences of the ongoing conflict, but it is clear that today we are also facing mistakes of the past and wrong energy choices or not choices that have made us dependent on others and more vulnerable than other European partners. We too will face the costs of sanctions, especially as a result of the price of energy, and that is why Brothers of Italy calls for action at European and international level so that costs are shared equally between the different European countries and the Western Alliance. But it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen: Brothers of Italy believe that a plan of energy security is needed and that more energy must be produced in Italy with all possible instruments, from the increase of the current gas production in the existing deposits to the new renewable energy plants; a necessary combination to achieve the objective of energy independence, without which - we stress - there can be no other kind of independence. The ongoing war places the energy issue at the heart of global attention. The surge in petrol and diesel prices is a reality with which we are all unfortunately accounting every day. The same applies, unfortunately, to the generalized increases as it stretches - we have had confirmation even today - the shadow of the speculative spirals to be blocked to stop the escalation of the lists. It is necessary to strike those who are jackaling on the tragedy of war, as requested by Brothers of Italy also through a motion presented to the House. In conclusion, Mr President, I must stress certain aspects of the report which I believe are of interest to this debate. Energy is a social resource, that is, it is a universal right that should be guaranteed, it is certainly also an environmental resource and it is a commodity, but it should never become a weapon of geopolitical blackmail. And yet, it happens and it's happening. It is for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, that we must have an energy policy that responds to the emergency and is able to plan the future as well. But Italy must recover mistakes and delays, because an energy policy is missing and lacking. Meanwhile, in order to face the emergency, Brothers of Italy calls for an immediate reduction of excise duties and VAT on fuel costs. Moreover - I stress - the reduction of the tax burden on fuels would not lead to any loss, because these increases had not been estimated and represent a so-called extra-throw for the treasury chests. We must immediately - in our opinion - correct the shot, think about a strategy of energy independence, because there are entire supply chains - I do not mention them - that risk stopping, companies forced to close down or to reduce production. Families are struggling to survive. Even on the dear bills Brothers of Italy had launched, already at the beginning of the year, a cry of alarm and criticized a financial maneuver that provided for the increase only one and a half billion, a clearly inadequate figure, so much so that in January the Government had to intervene with other decrees to calm the bills; but it is not enough, as we have seen. It would not be objective to attribute to the ongoing conflict everything that is happening in our economy, because many crisis factors were already present in the last months of 2021 and the prices of all raw materials had already grown without the government - in our opinion - addressing the situation adequately. The war has created a short circuit and we are chasing emergencies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that today's debate must help us find the necessary measures, because Italians cannot support further sacrifices and do not deserve a Government that is still in the face of what was already an epochal socio-economic crisis, that the consequences of the ongoing conflict are worsening dramatically, launching new challenges, hybrid and multidimensional threats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u25	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u26	Mr President, I believe that the Committee's commitment is important, as I consider the role of politics to be important in this particular area. I believe that the commitment and role of the Information Services for Security has always been strategic, and not only on such occasions. So, in addition to what Mr Marilotti and Mr Pinotti have said, I will address a number of issues in order to try to stimulate the policy debate on what could be done in a framework that is completely renewed compared to the same year to which the Committee is addressing, because the report concludes on 9 February 2022. I will address a number of issues, namely energy security, which you have all talked about. The invasion of Ukraine and this new role of Russia have again focused on the subject, which was already known, of energy independence. I think that it has been wrong over the years to buy from just one country; in fact, if we look at what Russia represents for the European Union, it is an impressive figure, not only for gas, but also for coal and oil: very high figures compared to a country that has always been considered non-friend. The issue now has an impact on energy independence, so on the security and maintenance of democracies, because if public opinion does not support the enormous effort that we are making in democracies because of the increase in raw materials and especially energy products, Western democracies themselves could enter into crisis. So it is necessary - and it is being done - to study other sources of supply from other countries, which have been listed. One thing that is not included in the report is the necessary interconnection, on this front, with the new European Union plan, the Repower EU, which produces a series of ideas and reflections that will be in place in the coming years; among them, the fact that the European Union wants to diversify its sources by moving to Qatar, the United States, Egypt, West Africa, Arzebaijan, Algeria and Norway. Europe also wants to promote the European hydrogen market and the interconnection of gas storage (who has more and who has less) at the service of others. I think that, in the face of this complex scenario, we need a significant role for Information and Security Services, so that those countries with which the European Union intends to establish new alliances are assessed. I am certainly not referring to the United States, least of all Norway, but there are some who, like Russia, are not considered to be European Union friendly countries. It is therefore necessary to assess the critical elements in perspective, because we have already seen what could happen. I am convinced that it is right to speak - as is the case in the report - of strengthening economic and financial intelligence, provided that this is not only in support (justly) of Italian industry and its interests, but there is also some attention to directing it in those directions which are now - ahinoi - strategic and which we would never have thought could be. This applies not only to energy products, but also to agricultural products, on which there is no reference in the report. It's not a criticism, but it's a stimulus. We are seeing that this also applies to the power of the communities of Western democracies. We believe that this connection should be studied by the Committee in the course of next year. On the common European defence, my colleague Roberta Pinotti has made a good point: the Democratic Party is convinced that more needs to be done, as has rightly been said. The Democratic Party is equally convinced that we must invest more in weapon systems, correcting the distortion that has been in our country for years, that is the fact that we do not invest 2% of the gross domestic product in armaments, as Italy has instead undertaken to do in the framework of the agreements of the Atlantic Alliance. But beware of a passage: it says in the report that the horizon of a single European intelligence appears unworkable and that, therefore, we must focus on greater coordination. It's not wrong. But I wonder, as soon as the common defence is provided as soon as possible - hopefully not with those forces so small to which my colleague Mrs Pinotti referred - if there is no need for anything else too, which is not limited to availability and collaboration, but rather involves greater integration. I would not be so categorical about a factor of this nature, also because we are seeing, especially at this time - but it has always been so - the strong connection between military devices and the information for the security of the various countries. I would not be so categorical in excluding something more and better, considering the need to strengthen European intelligence in support. Another theme is the infiltration of organised crime into the socio-economic fabric. I live in a reality that will be completely upset thanks to the investments of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (and not only) on the High Speed. In a reality like that of Verona will come about 15 billion euros of investments. Well, the contrast device is always the one, it has not changed: at the prefecture there is a committee (an intergroup) among the police forces, which bring their experiences there. They do well, play their role; prefects also intervene with interdicts. But this cannot be enough in relation to the illicit appetites of organised crime, which are often transnational, as the report rightly points out. It also serves there - I am not necessarily referring to Verona, but to the whole of Italy - a role of intelligence to try to understand what might happen, because the current forces do not have those reading skills. There's something else you need, too. As written in the report, a section of the Anti-Mafia District Directorate would be needed in all those places where economic dynamism can attract illicit appetites. We need something more from this point of view as well. There is also a need for a critical assessment of the procurement code, the role of the DAC and the preferential lanes for the PNRR, as unpleasant situations could be lurking there. I would like to turn to the chapter on military intelligence, which is a debate that is always open and addressed also in the report, particularly with regard to RIS, which - as is well known - cooperates with AISE (to be informed), but is not part of the security information system. I'm gonna ask myself a question. With everything that is happening, given the very strong threat to Europe and Western democracies and the fact that we are talking about a common defence model, is it not now appropriate to reflect on this instrument, which has already been appreciated and which works very well? Can you think of something more to make sure that even that commendable military intelligence service can be at the service of democracy, as it is already, but more integrated (I like the word integration more than collaboration)? There are a before and after to what we have known and the discrimination is February 24: the scenarios and the threat are completely different. Today we have another deterrent, which is the economic side: sanctions against Russia are working. I am increasingly convinced that we need an economic intelligence service - such as the Commission proposes - to prevent certain facts (let us look at what is happening and what the American secret services had suggested to us). The reforms we have adopted in the area of services were based on normal conditions that are no longer there today and that in the future and for several years, unfortunately for us, there will be no more. 18.17 (Followed by Mr D'Arienzo). There is therefore a need for a different input and impetus from the Committee, politics, Parliament and the Government. The war that Russia is doing to Ukraine and Western democracies, which are being put in danger, has put back at the center fences of the past that we thought were being overcome. The country has made reforms and we thought there were all the antibodies to counter them. This, unfortunately, was not true, nor are there antibodies in the economic system to combat some of the situations that have occurred. There is therefore a need for a change of mind and account to be taken of the discrimination of 24 February in order to ensure that the secret and security services are increasingly in support of democracies in order to protect them both from a military and an economic point of view. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u27	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating the report on energy security in the current phase of ecological transition. The report was drawn up and presented by the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic and well illustrated by President Urso, whom we thank together with the entire parliamentary team. Draft - as already evidenced - of a document that investigates the repercussions on the Italian safety of the energetic transition, that is the process of progressive detachment from the fossil fuels in favor of the renewable sources to zero emissions of greenhouse gases. It is a subject which, in view of the changed geopolitical conditions, is totally to be called into question at this time. The President's report shows that "one of the main objectives to be achieved is the diversification of energy sources and places of supply" - a necessary objective, in our view - "to overcome or at least mitigate the state of dependence vis--vis other countries." This is all the more true at a time like the present one which sees, on the one hand, the outbreak of the war between Russia and Ukraine and the consequent repercussions in Europe and in our country, with Italy currently extremely dependent on Russia for the supply of natural gas. In this respect, the report goes on to point out that the range of energy resources must be carefully assessed in order to have a clearly defined framework for opportunities and weaknesses. The Copasir focuses in particular on hydropower, what operators - and we with them - call blue gold, described in the report as one of the areas in which our country has a significant competitive advantage. We risk losing it or giving it to others. A statement on all: an industrial and technological capital such as hydropower, a real strategic asset, should be preserved in terms of Italianity, building a regulatory system that creates the conditions for the right protection, also and especially for safety purposes, as other European countries do, one for all France that - for example - has moved the competitions for concessions even to 2041 (while we debate). Hydroelectric is a renewable energy source, therefore consistent with the ecological transition path; it is modular and can guarantee important levels of storage, thus improving the stability of the electricity grid and therefore safety. It is an irreplaceable energy source and is the most stable of renewable sources, able to restart the national electrical system in case of blackout - and back to safety - contributing significantly to our national electrical system. In particular - a detail not small - does not alter the water resource, restoring it intact to the environment in quantity and quality. Another fundamental peculiarity of hydropower - and let us return to the theme of safety - is the relationship with the territory because, both from the point of view of the protection of the territory itself and the growth of the economic fabric, it is second to none. At the moment, almost all of the hydroelectric plants are managed fortunately by Italian operators, largely under public control, and this has to be assessed from a strategic point of view before making choices that in a disarming regulatory environment at European level can upset it. That is why, on the basis of the Committee's assessment of the draft competition law's report, we find a critical note from the Copasir regarding the possible opening of tenders for hydroelectric concessions to foreign operators: this would happen under a non-reciprocal regime, since the other European countries apply a protectionist regime in this area. According to the Copasir, therefore, the current Italian legislative discipline would put at risk the control of this strategic asset for the security of the energy system and for the national energy autonomy, allowing participation in the new competitions of foreign companies, with a consequent weakening of the competitive position of the Italian industrial system. This is what the Copasir report says, speaking - I repeat - of energy security, and we must listen carefully and respond seriously, since we have also helped to write this report. So we are making this concern ours, and that is why we are asking the Government to reconsider the extensions for tenders on concessions beyond the deadline set for December 2022, in the face of obviously certification of investments, revamping works, innovation of the plants by the operators. Hydroelectric must remain Italian. I repeat: the hydropower must remain Italian [[Applause]] , in any case, providing for the extension of the golden power discipline, considering setting it up and making it structural at least for certain specific sectors, such as the protection of the energy system. We are talking about over 4,000 plants in Italy, about 15,000 employees, which provide about 20 percent of the total electricity production and over 40 percent of the country's renewable production. The many geopolitical uncertainties, connected to the supply of energy, starting from the leap of the increase of the prices of the gas, require us therefore to look to the hydroelectric with even greater attention and awareness regarding its importance and its centrality. For this reason, we also ask that the State should accompany the Regions, which in this field enact laws and regulations, in the event of their inertia or difficulties. So today more than ever the elements of strength present in our energy system must be defended, protected and valued. It is essential that politics and government give him the right attention and protect him as he deserves. The Copasir report also talks about the potential of nuclear energy and the latest technologies, which would reduce radioactive waste. In Italy - the report says - although there is no energy production through the use of nuclear power stations, research in this field has not stopped and has allowed important safeguards to be established both in the scientific and industrial fields. However, every case of application remains linked to political assessments. We are in favour of the inclusion of fourth-generation nuclear technologies in European taxonomy for sustainable investments; we cannot say no today, regardless of whether or not we are going to give and sell a know-how that is all Italian, for which we are second to none. There is a common understanding between us and the Copasir report on another energy source: natural gas. The Committee notes that natural gas appears to be an indispensable resource in the short and medium term, pending the completion of the energy transition. I repeat, all the more so, today while we are living what we are living, while we have turned or written, as we prefer, a page of history that will remain in the annals. And again, even in order to facilitate the reduction of bills, increased in an unsustainable way, the hypothesis of increasing the extractions of gas from Italian deposits, at the same time reducing purchases from abroad, obviously from Russia in the first place, a va sans dire. It would be - the text continues - to exploit more effectively the deposits already active, in order to double the national quota from little more than 4 to approximately 9 billion cubic meters per year. The Copasir is giving important address lines. So, in summary, also for safety, yes to renewables, gas and nuclear, with attention to hydro and China. For security Italy needs to become independent and independent also from the energy point of view. The current geopolitical situation can become a source of dramatic crisis or - as we hope - a stimulus to react. It is an incredible time that we are living; let us remember how those who have laid the foundations for a safe future for our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u29	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report is the result of intensive work by the Copasir during 2021: thanks to the relations between the Committee and the Republic's Security Information System and the close hearings with all the ministers of the Interministerial Security Committee of the Republic (CISR), the Delegated Authority, represented here by Prefect Gabrielli, and the directors of the Security Information Department (DIS), the Information and External Security Agency (AISE), the Internal Security and Information Agency (AISI) and the new Cybersecurity Agency, an intensive and articulated activity has developed. The issues dealt with in the report show that the perimeter of control entrusted to the Copasir invests an increasingly extensive and neuralgic area, which has what purpose the national security in its different declinations, that cannot be considered static and predefined. One of the main focus of Copasir's activity, as in previous years, was the theme of 5G, the single network and the national cloud, which our country is still lacking. There is an awareness that the strategic and now indispensable role of the most advanced telecommunications networks, as well as of the new generation of infrastructures, demands a constant defence against pitfalls and threats that risk exposing these garrisons to an accentuated vulnerability. This awareness, combined with the Committee's constant drive, led in June last year, although with many years of delay, to the establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency, which is allowing our country to reduce a gap that is no longer sustainable in this sensitive sector; a key agency also to respond to the hybrid character of the Russian war against Ukraine. Moreover, the extremely invasive extent of cyber threats, the plurality of possible sources of aggression and undue interference, the same heterogeneity of attacks and possible incidents are - all together - factors of extreme concern, which require a protective and maximum resilience framework, which requires continual adaptation and refinement. To this end, we recall that 95% of Italian public administrations do not yet have the necessary and adequate tools to protect their data. Thousands of public administrations still have Russian Kaspersky as antivirus.There is therefore a need to use European technology to build a national strategic hub, which will host country's strategic digital data and services, together with the National Cybersecurity Agency, in order to ensure maximum protection of national security. The government's exercise of special powers, the so-called golden power, has also been systematically monitored in the course of the Committee's work, which has identified its limitations, as well as its scope for improvement. The already fragile economic situation has also been affected by the explosion of the pandemic, with a general reduction in productivity and competitiveness and a devaluation of strategic industrial assets, increasingly exposed to foreign aims. It has been found that in a more dangerous condition are the small Italian multinationals that develop artificial intelligence, robotics, packaging, machine tools, defense and biotechnology. Hence the need for a geopolitical protection and so-called special powers, or golden power, a legal instrument for the protection of economic, financial, industrial and scientific interests at the disposal of the Italian Government. With this discipline, modified during the pandemic to increase the role of intelligence services, our country builds - or wants to do so - its identity, presenting before the global world its priorities, in order to ensure the maintenance of a leading role for Italy and its degree of overall competitiveness within the global area. It is in this sense that a modern and truly incisive vision of the culture of security can no longer ignore the so-called economic intelligence, as they have been doing for several years in France; the defence of the independence of the state and the national territory requires that the perimeter of security includes the protection of strategic economic interests and crucial for the strength of our country. The Committee has also launched a survey on aerospace as a new frontier of geopolitical competition, deepening the current process of liberalisation affecting the space perimeter and its consequences, starting from the adaptation of international regulations in the field and the increasing protagonism of private actors alongside state actors, among which are powers particularly active in the exploitation of space domain. A further survey of the prospects for developing the common European defence and cooperation between intelligence services is also under way. The Committee will come to Brussels in two weeks' time. One of the issues to consider is the strengthening of the national defence industry as a strategic asset for the country system, both because it provides capacities and means indispensable for the protection of national interest, and because it is a resource to increase the geopolitical influence of Italy. I think it is a good thing that, in the light of the Russian-Ukrainian war, there have been more arguments about the possibility of devoting more resources to defence in the state budget. [[Applause]] Of course, the Copasir could not fail to dedicate a chapter to the country's energy system. Already in the second half of 2020 - a year before the emergence of expensive energy, the second half of last year - it was clear to the members of the Committee the need to carry out a cognitive survey to analyze the vulnerability of our system, characterized by a high dependence on energy and raw materials from abroad, also due to the unfortunate and progressive reduction of the exploitation of national geo-resources. [[Applause]] Our dependence on gas from abroad last year was 96 percent, due to the lack of diversification of supplies. In fact, we import 40% of gas from Russia. We are critical in the safety of the energy system and strategic reserves, a high cost of electricity and gas bills (historically higher than European partners) and risks of impact of the ecological transition. Meanwhile, since the second half of 2021 - but for those who speak to you, it was expected - the perfect storm, with the dear energy that has touched Europe, in particular Italy, with more structural characteristics than cyclical; expensive energy then aggravated with the Russian-Ukrainian crisis, to become the worst energy crisis in recent decades, also in the face of the concrete danger that Russia can exploit this issue to exert pressure on the EU, using gas supplies as an instrument of tension and asymmetrical war. With regard to energy security, in the current phase of ecological transition, the information procedure has shown that the complex changes caused by climate change and the fight against global warming, with the aim of achieving so-called climate neutrality by 2050, have given impetus to a phase of energy transition full of opportunities, but also of serious risks, which are much greater and diversified than those related to the renewal of hydroelectric concessions, which I see emphasized by many colleagues as the only problem of our energy system. With this in mind, the need for a strengthening of so-called economic intelligence in support of such a decisive sector is further stressed, through an approach not only more defensive and protective, but also proactive and proactive. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to hand over the final part of the speech to the record and I come to the conclusion that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group thanks President Urso, who is the rapporteur today, and above all expresses his sincere thanks to the women and men of the agencies in our intelligence sector. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u31	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u32	Senator Castiello is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the importance of the report on Copasir's work in the period from 1 January 2021 to 9 February 2022. The presentation of this report is not simply a mere ritual appointment, as it reflects a very intense activity of the Parliamentary Committee during the period considered. It is therefore a reason and a time for Parliament's specific attention and reflection. This premise is based on the fact that the purpose of national security is not a static, firm, unchanged and unchangeable fact. It cannot be considered static and predefined what - by essence and ontology - is dynamic. And then the dynamism inherent in this, which is a primary value, according to our Constitution, requires that the regulatory framework - but better to say the regulatory scaffolding - be adequate, necessarily flexible and follow the evolution and needs of the times. And here is the central point of my speech: I want to highlight the valuable contribution that the Copasir has made to the construction and improvement of this regulatory scaffolding. And I use the term'regulatory' properly and not 'legislative' because - as I will say - the Committee's supporting role was not limited to primary sources, but also concerned secondary regulatory sources. I'll start with a hint of the regulation that governed the golden power. We came out of a devastating financial crisis, that of 2008-2016, a crisis of unusual length; and this had already eroded the market and had caused it - condemned to low values - to the gracity of the industrial apparatus. In this crisis, just four years later, the pandemic has been inserted and grafted. All this has meant that the predatory activities of foreign multinationals, to the detriment of the most difficult Italian companies, have been a pernicious activity that had to be fought with adequate means. How? Giving the government a series of special powers that the doctrine summarizes in the term golden power. They are powers of prohibition or conditional consent to purchase transactions. This law was implemented with two decree-laws (No 23 of 2020, in full pandemic, the so-called liquidity decree-law, and No 228 of the following year, 2021). Both measures had technical support and propulsive activity by the Copasir. This is an extremely appropriate law, because it allows Italy to preserve its industrial identity and, within the framework of this law, the powers of intelligence services have increased significantly. From the point of view of regulatory and secondary legislation, it is worth pointing out the support that the Copasir has given for the definition of the incompatibility regime. Those incompatibilitys to what are functional? To the protection of confidentiality also towards the employees of the Services who, in the treatment of quiescence, intend to assume positions from private subjects, also foreign. This unlimited freedom - as it was before - was choking with the need to protect confidentiality and secrecy. This was done on a regulatory basis, in concordance of views between the Copasir and of course the directors of the two Agencies and the DIS. There is only some concern about legal certainty. Since the legal capacity is surrounded by enhanced protection - since it is a creation of the legal order, it cannot be limited, let alone dissolved, if not observing the reserve of law laid down by the Constitution - to have limited this capacity through regulatory and secondary sources raises some doubts about the legitimacy of the source used. It would therefore be desirable to strengthen this discipline by drawing on the legislative threshold. I then come to the revision of Law No. 124 of 2007, that which establishes the services apparatus. It was a legislative instrument which, after fifteen years, has proved to be very valid, moreover it has its own intrinsic rationality. This is a law that is based on the principle of separation of powers, because in the field of intelligence the Government implements the legislative precept, but the Parliament, which carries out the control, must adopt and adapt the legislative instrument over time. In this way, the balance between the two powers is determined and the principle of separation is respected. Hence the need for Parliament to take charge of certain changes which allow this legislative instrument, albeit valid, to be in step with the times and I am referring to economic intelligence, which had been somewhat neglected - let us be honest - in the original legislative system, although it has a nerve function, because economic security is no longer that of the State apparatus, which is resolved in counterintelligence to protect the military sector. This is about the safety of the nation and that is about the welfare of its citizens, which involves a series of very delicate functions, which require the support of the legislative base: the fight against counterfeiting, the protection of patent ownership, technological supervision, the fight against unfair competition against our companies and also the fight against distortions of communication. All this requires a legislative basis and that is why Law No 124 of 2007 should be adapted, giving wide scope to economic intelligence. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by expressing my warm thanks and appreciation to the three successive presidencies (the Guerini presidencies, the Volpi presidencies and the current presidencies of Senator Urso), who have been truly enlightened and able to manage the Committee's work on balance and detachment from partisan interests, in a vision of absolute superiority in the security of the State. To them goes the most heartfelt thanks. This style of Presidency has enabled the Copasir to achieve the flattering results of which the report bears witness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u34	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u35	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u36	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Members who have thought that they have spoken here for the ideas they have given us, on which we will then make our subsequent reflections in the context of the meetings that the Committee will develop. Of course, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee who have spoken, Senators Arrigoni, Castiello and Magorno, because - as they have pointed out - the Committee acts - as it must - as a team and, not by chance, all the reports it has submitted under the three Presidencies of this legislature have been unanimously approved. This shows that there has been a sharing, beyond belongings and the placement between majority and opposition. Of course, I also thank the intelligence men, who are often engaged in crisis theatres. In a few days, as every year, there will be a ceremony at the intelligence headquarters in memory of their fallen men to protect the nation during their missions. I would like to respond specifically to some of my colleagues on the issues that have been highlighted. The Copasir hearing was held today on energy by Mr Cingolani, who will be speaking here tomorrow morning. To answer Senator D'Arienzo, I will give an emblematic figure: twenty years ago we imported 20 billion cubic meters of gas from Russia, today we import 29-30 billion, that is 10 billion more, that are exactly what we produce less from our deposits, because twenty years ago we produced 15 billion cubic meters of gas in Italy and imported 20 billion from Russia, today we produce in Italy 3-4 billion and we import 10 more from Russia. To my friend and colleague Senator Gasparri, who stresses the risk of other supplies, I say that it is true: if, as we will do, we will diversify our sources to provide more from Africa - not only Algeria, Libya or Egypt, but also from Congo and Angola - then we will have to understand that Africa is in our main interests, because if we abandon it then it is worse than turning or abandoning Russian gas. We must therefore make a strategic policy for Africa. I would point out to Senator Gallone, who highlighted our speech on hydropower, that Parliament will decide next week whether our assessments of national interest should also lead to the modification or suspension of competitions, which we alone do in the European context. Senator Malan and Senator Pinotti rightly talk about the Cybersecurity Agency, which is important. I also believe that it is significant what the Government intends to prepare shortly to eliminate some critical conditions compared to Russian Kaspersky software and not only. Senator Pinotti rightly proposes to hold a parliamentary session on European defence and defence in general. I believe that this is very important, also the light of what Mr Arrigoni pointed out about the Italian defence industry, which must have its own policy. We have in fact assisted - and we have evidenced - to the fact that a very important company like Leonardo anticipates a defense industry policy and another just as important as Fincantieri anticipates a different one. There is therefore a need, all the more so in this area, for a national defence industry policy. To Senator D'Arienzo, who addresses the topic of economic intelligence, linking it also to the European one, I respond that on the economic front you cannot develop a European intelligence, because it is clear to everyone that the interests and the modalities of intervention are different: just think of France, which is one of the most active subjects on economic intelligence... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] On the other hand, cooperation on military intelligence and even more significant integration can and must be developed. In this regard, only in parenthesis, I would point out to this House how important the evolution of Atlantic intelligence is: I am referring specifically to the possibility of enlargement of five eyes, the five eyes that share information among them that we ourselves cannot share. It has emerged quite clearly in this Russian war in Ukraine, how much the American Intelligence and English Intelligence evidently share with each other and with the other three countries of the so-called five-eyed information that is not necessarily shared with us. There is an important problem that we have to deal with from this point of view. I shall conclude on the subject of desegregation, put by President Marilotti, whom I thank for what he has done and is doing. We will deliver to this Parliament a report not on the Moro praise, Mr Gasparri, although perhaps it would be necessary, but on how to improve the regulations in order to make... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] the best conservation of acts. It is undoubtedly true what Senator Marilotti had denounced a few days ago: with the current legislation - or, better, with its current execution - it would take two hundred and thirty years only to desegretate the acts contained here in the Senate of the Republic. Finally, I respond to secret contracts, about which Senators Magorno and Gasparri spoke: the legislation concerns secret contracts, which according to European standards should also include contracts for the custody of interceptions by the judiciary. Instead, the judiciary believes that, unlike other European countries, we are a special case and secret contracts are not handed over to the Authority that the Government and Parliament have identified for control, which is the Special Section of the Court of Auditors. I would add that in recent days the Court of Auditors has also given us further documentation on the possibility that failure to implement the European directive and failure to deliver secreted contracts to the special office of the Court of Auditors may also interfere with the validity of the ongoing proceedings. And here I conclude, so as not to open up other very important issues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u37	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u38	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Mr Urso, before I make a few brief comments on what I have heard from the report and the speeches, allow me to express my personal applause, also on behalf of the Government, for this initiative and for the fact that today's debate is taking place, because in a modern democracy the system of controls and checks between powers is the essential condition. This is also important from the point of view of the message that must be given, because in our country the intelligence sector too often lives a condition also of marginality. We are perhaps the only country in the world that coined the phrase "Deviant Services" because, in the advertising and in the way in which we represent the activity of the Services, all too often these are the bilge of the worst things that can happen in our Country, when instead there are men and women who serve the Country. It is only through effective control that these people, these workers and servants of the State are given dignity, so that the activity that is being carried out in the interlocation between the Delegated Authority, the Government, the Intelligence system and the Parliamentary Committee can then have its own opportunity to debate and continue for the many activities that must be carried out. On the substance of the things I have heard, I shall just focus on the issue of cybersecurity. In this sense, allow me to claim to the Government the fact that I have somehow put my hand in time to this problem, after ten years in which we have all too often refrained from solutions (the "Tsar," the foundations). This government in June, thanks also to the collaboration of the Copasir (in this regard, I cannot but thank President Urso, because at that moment the Copasir lived an extremely problematic moment and, indeed, the fact that today has returned in its natural composition I believe that it is a wealth and a positivity for everyone), issued a decree-law and in August there was a law. For our ordinary conditions we made the regulations by December and the Agency is operational. Of course, much still needs to be done, but I demand that at the top of the Agency there are people prepared. Professor Baldoni and Dr. Ciardi are the best we have in this field: we have chosen these people outside the logic of belonging, for their curricula and for previous professional experiences. I would also like to stress one thing. Senator Gaspari quoted the famous Kaspersky antivirus. Gentlemen, Kaspersky has been in the electronic public administration market (MEPA) since 2003. We cannot be aware of things only when they occur. There is a presupposition, which is the technological autonomy of our country; one of the fundamental missions of the Agency for National Cybersecurity is technological autonomy. If we do not achieve technological autonomy, the theme of dependence (today from the Russians, tomorrow from the Chinese, the day after tomorrow from some other country that can create problems to our security) will always be a current theme. As President Urso recalled, the Government is preparing to make a rule to allow not only the antivirus so widely cited, but also other computer platforms to be placed outside the scope of the activities of public administrations, but I repeat that these are commercial interventions, which have an highlighted situation. We need to build a resilient system. In conclusion, the Agency has the fundamental mission of creating a resilient environment in our country system: I would not want there to be any confusion about this. The attacks and defenses pertain to other areas: cyber defense, cyber investigation and cyber intelligence. This is a trait that we wanted to keep very distinct, because we feel in some way that the theme of creating a safe environment is prevalent. It is no coincidence that a recent directive that I signed, in the necessary intercourse between the intelligence sector and the Agency, highlighted the premium and prevalence of the resilient aspect over other types of consideration. Sometimes it even makes me smile a little when I feel the overemphasis on attacks and counterattacks. If I am in a position - if I can do so - to identify the attacker, then to find myself with the country system in a condition of absolute weakness, I believe that there is no choice. First we must defend ourselves and create the conditions for resilience and then, if necessary, also have a posture of attack, but the resilience and ability of our country to counter this type of phenomena are prevalent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The debate on the report of the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic has thus ended.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 728-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies will be the subject of the deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Bergesio, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to mention two basic passages. The measure started from the Senate, thanks to the initiative of the members of the Agriculture and Food Production Commission and, on all, President Vallardi. This is an important bill in view of the great crisis that the agriculture sector is experiencing because of the increase in raw materials, energy costs and the difficulties associated with the lack of matching of rising prices of products for sale. The initiative is placed in a general framework where the risk of supply, connected with the international crisis, gives the possibility to enhance the role of our productions. Already since 2020 there has been a growth, compared to previous years, of more than 7% of Italian family companies and companies that have decided to invest in direct sales, which in our country is worth over 6 billion euros. I have concluded, and I ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u41	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u44	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would ask that I be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u47	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I will be very brief, but I would at least like to have time to explain the reasons why the Brothers of Italy abstained on certain articles. I immediately declare that we will vote in favour of this measure and give it our responsibility, because it is a text that can certainly make a positive contribution to our farmers and because small local produce can represent an increase in income that can certainly help those farmers, farmers and fishermen in disadvantaged areas. However, I must also say that a common sense provision had come out of the Senate, while the changes that have been made to the House have in fact distorted the provision in its essential foundations. I am thinking of the amendment of point (a) of paragraph 1 of Article 1, which strictly binds to compliance with the sanitary regulations and controls; I am thinking of the deletion of point (b) of the same paragraph, in which the principle of marginality is deleted. That is why we voted in favour of abstaining. Another key element is the deletion of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Article 4 on the PPL mark. It was a way of helping farmers to characterize their product, both direct and processing, and also of adding value to consumers. Finally, I would like to stress the further concern raised by the amendment to Article 7, where many paragraphs have been abolished which actually represented the way to lower this law within the local productive realities, which for centuries have been the place of the production of many of our articles. In conclusion, I repeat the positive vote of the Group of Brothers of Italy, assuming that it is still preferable to have an instrument - albeit imperfect, as this bill comes out - to make available to the territories, rather than to delay the entry into force of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u50	BITI (PD). Mr President, this draft law has three main objectives: to protect, promote and enhance both agricultural and zootechnical products on our small local farms. This favours, protects and values all territories, so our vote is absolutely in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u53	ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, this measure was one of the first to arrive in the 9th Commission and was immediately shared, partly because it can count on experiments carried out in some regions which have given very favourable results. The draft law in question aims to promote and enhance small productions, the processing and sale by farmers and fishers of products of animal and vegetable origin that are part of the farm production, recognizable by a specific indication on the label, in compliance with the principles of health, health and safety, marginality, and the principles of localization intended as a possibility to market only a small part of food in absolute terms. I would also like to mention the nature of the specificity, i.e. the possibility of marketing only a certain type of products which will be indicated by the various regions. I thought above all of mountain areas; of giving those people, who heroically still cultivate and produce, the opportunity to sell their products to those who reach these areas, both for tourism and for work. I thought of the small seaside villages, because they too can offer tourists and those who reach them fish products not only fresh, but also processed: I think - for example - the caviar of the South, the famous rosamarina. Today we are voting for two measures that value both the local and the geographical area to which we belong, but also the products of the short chain. So there is a tendency to value what does not come from far. But let me give you a little thought: in a market that has launched our products more and more far away, but above all in which they have launched, sometimes just on us, products of every kind and of every origin in the name of the mirage of the global market, we are talking today about short supply chains and small local productions. We have abandoned certain sectors, such as the grain supply chain and the maize supply chain, because basically farmers have never been guaranteed the cost of production, and now, at a time when there is a conflict in the heart of Europe, we are adopting laws for the promotion and promotion of the marketing of local products and short supply chains: we have to ask a few questions. We must admit that national and European agricultural policy has now done great damage, and that is why it must be revised and corrected. In conclusion, with conviction, the vote in favour of the Mixed Group on the measure under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u54	I authorize Senator Caliguri to submit her statement so that it can be annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u57	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like a few minutes to thank you for the measure we are considering, which has been signed by all my colleagues in the League and also by several other fellow senators. It is certainly an important measure for the world of agriculture and for all those in our country who will want to try to make, create, produce and above all sell the products of tradition. It's a measure I'm proud of. I remember in fact that the Veneto Region had started this route ten years ago, then adopted by the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. Today is an important day because the provision will be available to all the Regions of our country. In particular, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture who have adopted it unanimously twice and have already voted in favour of it unanimously in this House. This means that there is good, especially at a time when agriculture is in great need of attention. [[Applause]] even for the sad events we've seen. The thought goes clearly to what is happening in Ukraine, which has opened our eyes to the fact that in Italy agriculture has perhaps made some mistakes in the past; we are no longer self-sufficient and we have understood it since we import 60% of the grain. We are not self-sufficient because we have seen that, for the dairy sector, three out of every four milk containers, if we look closely, come from abroad; all this after we have shut down our stables and have seized the current accounts from several farmers. In conclusion, Mr President, we need much more attention to the agriculture sector, we need much more money than we have made available; we need much more resources, especially in the irrigation sector, on which we have only allocated EUR 1 billion in the PNRR. You know that climate change is taking place and we need water for our land to produce. One billion is very little, not least because in a year we have been unable to find more than one billion, but in one day we have found EUR 10 billion for armaments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u60	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, the draft law No 728-B which we are about to vote on, which lays down rules for the exploitation of small-scale agri-food production of local origin, with particular attention also to the fish sector, goes a short way between producers and consumers, reduces the supply chains, which therefore become even more controllable and more transparent for consumers. The small local productions (PPL) are highly appreciated by consumers, because to the health of the food is added the satisfaction of supporting projects and companies of the territory. Italy is a territory in which every city and country has its own food peculiarities, which refined practices of conservation and preparation over the centuries have transformed into typical local foods. The draft law under consideration has the ambition to make a decisive contribution in linking the production of food with the tradition of the places where it is produced, i.e. it aims to combine the economic factor with the cultural factor. It is a measure that finally gives a regulatory framework to what has already emerged during the years of deprivation to which the pandemic has subjected us, which however has made us rediscover the economy of proximity, that is the local. There are more and more cases of girls and boys, perhaps with one or two degrees, who return from the city to the places of their grandparents and revitalize them combining tradition and innovation, taking advantage if anything of the opportunities of the global market. I conclude by saying that the measure under discussion shortens the supply chain and contributes to the maintenance and creation of an alternative market to that proposed by multinationals to mass consumption. The 5 Star Movement, through my person, strongly expresses its opinion in favour of this measure, because it finds it consistent and in harmony with its own principles, recognizes it respectful and grateful towards the productive and entrepreneurial part of the active citizens who protect health, tradition and economy of our country. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would like to add the remaining part of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u61	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u62	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u63	The next item is the debate on the drawing-up of draft law No 878. The rapporteur, Senator Bergesio, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u64	Mr President, the measure before us comes to the House after a particularly complicated and difficult period such as lockdown, which has changed the consumption habits of Italians, in particular by strengthening their sensitivity to the issues of health and safety, the origin and sustainability of food purchased. Today, in fact, statistics show that in recent months Italians have made much healthier choices, moving towards higher quality and safer foods, both in terms of origin and production methods. In fact, I would like to point out that this measure is different from the previous one, which dealt with small local productions for sale. This is the sale to zero kilometer or to useful kilometer, so we speak of 70 kilometers from the place of production or in any case of transformation. Direct sales, especially close to zero kilometer, have become choices by consumers. 22 percent of consumers say they have increased their purchases of these categories; 28 percent have started to buy food from short supply chains just during the Covid-19 period and we hope they will continue in the post Covid-19 period. Zero kilometre foodstuffs shall mean those agricultural and livestock products, including aquaculture, and products from places of production and processing of raw material or raw materials at a distance not exceeding 70 kilometres radius from the place of sale or in any case from the same Province of the place of sale or from the place of consumption of the catering service, as well as fresh sea fishing and inland fishing products from landing points at a distance not exceeding 70 kilometres radius from the place of sale. We also have an important initiative, which is that of valorization through trademarks of production and distinction. On this the Ministry will probably have to implement a policy of organization and harmonization in order to coordinate a system of all the brands that start from organic, that we have approved the past weeks: zero kilometer, small local productions and all the others. This is in order to succeed in having a clear picture always in defense of both the small producer and the final consumer who wants to buy these products. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would like to add the full text of my report to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u65	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u66	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u69	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would ask for permission to give the floor, because these were the agreements reached between the Groups, obviously expressing a favourable opinion from the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u70	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u73	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, our vote is absolutely in favour of this measure, especially in view of the fact that those who speak come from a Province such as Belluno, which does not have the possibility of intensive agriculture, but which enjoys, benefits and benefits from this law which, in fact, puts all small farmers and producers in a position to have aid and support. It seems paradoxical, however, that today we are dealing with these, albeit important issues, when we have a national problem, which is more related to supply, self-sufficiency and independence than to details such as those that can be zero kilometer rather than anything else. I appeal to the Undersecretary - I know that he is particularly sensitive to these issues - so that we can really bring the church back to the centre of the village and put the primary sector back in that strategic and primary place that agriculture deserves, but which deserves above all our agri-food industry which benefits most from our agriculture. I would remind you, dear Undersecretary, that when you decide or make any kind of proposal, which will go towards a greater form of independence and also a new vision of agriculture that puts innovation alongside tradition, you will always find the Brothers of Italy Group - as in this case - favorable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u76	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly just to say that these years of pandemics before and the war events of the last few days now give us a different awareness of the central role of agriculture. Self-sufficiency - on the one hand - and the quality of agricultural production - on the other - are becoming, even for citizens, a widespread awareness. It is just these days a report that certifies that about 600,000 hectares that could be used for arable crops have been left uncultivated because farmers did not consider it economically interesting to sow them. Here, this rule, in its small, puts in place a series of tools so that small companies intended for local production and destined for local markets can find in this text a precise reference that simplifies their lives and incentives to resume to cultivate even territories that otherwise would not be. For this and many other reasons the Democratic Party vote will be in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u79	Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Mr President, I will just say that the Mixed Group (LEU-Ecosolidali and Italy components at the Centre (Idea-Change!, Europeanists, We at the Centre (We Campani))) will vote in favour of the measure, because it is very important, especially at this historic moment when globalisation has shown us that everything that comes from afar creates so many problems, especially in agriculture. I had prepared my explanation of vote, which is much more detailed in the various sections, so I simply declare the vote in favour and ask that I be able to deliver the text of my speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u80	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u83	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too would like to be able to deliver the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u86	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too will be very brief. I would like to stress the importance of this measure and the opportunities offered to municipalities and local authorities, as well as to the entire agricultural chain and the territories. I quote below what was reported by the press at the time of the inauguration of the market at zero kilometer of Verona city; of course there are many examples such as this at national level in other parts of Italy. The Verona farms will be the protagonists of the covered market of Campagna Amica in the city center in Verona: a space of 700 square meters fed with energy from renewable sources of agricultural origin and zero kilometer. They will propose their fresh and seasonal products at zero kilometer, such as fruit and vegetables, oil, rice and flour, meat and sausages, lake fish, dairy products, wine, beer and gastronomy. In addition, it will be possible to experience sensory experiences through workshops, tastes guided by producers and themed days. The covered market will be a place for purchases and tasting of local products, but also for the development of food and food culture. Children and young people, in collaboration with schools, will be dedicated training moments to bring them closer to the values of nature, biodiversity and non-waste. I now report the statements of a mayor who took the opportunity together with Coldiretti and Campagna Amica on the fly: "Most important day for the city and the neighborhood" said the mayor Federico Sboarina. This covered market will become a generator of new interests for this part of the city that, even with the return of tourists, will soon come back to animate itself with new vitality, like all our city. This virtuous model of food education is a model of health, because it is with the food education that people form, not with the nouri-score. Today's news is the alarm launched by AFIPDO, the Italian DOP Cheese Association, on the risk that there is, through the nourishing-score, on ten dishes symbol of DOP cheese. I shall conclude my speech here and ask that we be able to deliver the written text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u89	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, I too support the agreement between the groups, so I shall limit my speech to asking you now to be able to deliver the written text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. TRENTACOSTE (M5S). The adoption of this bill is a further step towards a more sustainable and eco-friendly agricultural model, in line with the European directives to limit pollutant emissions. The measure represents the transposition of the Farm to Fork strategy and is part of the reforms planned to respond to the need for resilient and quality agri-food systems, while respecting soil and ecosystems. The zero kilometre chain improves the final quality of the products with undoubted positive aspects that fall on the freshness, seasonality and typicality of the territory, talking about foods that did not need the addition of preservatives or other chemicals. The way in which food is produced and transformed is one of the factors that contributes most to climate change, therefore, by choosing the short supply chain, pollution and waste are knocked down, also given the absence of additional costs in the distribution chain. This practice would also favour the agriturismo intended as a visit to the production companies, expanding and diversifying the tourist offer of our country, which is already wide. In addition, the link with the local community gives the product a value that goes beyond the companies that market it and interests the local population. The local agro-food industry, therefore, has with its home territory a privileged link, which results in the use of specific resources of the place, from which often comes an improvement of its quality and an economic induced with direct repercussions, establishing close socio-territorial relations between producers, processors and consumers. The Movimento 5 Stars, promoter of the bill in the House - and I would like to thank the colleagues of the Parliamentary Group and the President of the Agriculture Commission of the other branch of Parliament [[Applause]] - strongly supports this measure, considering that it provides for measures to facilitate the direct encounter between farmers and operators of collective catering and allows to reserve spaces dedicated to the sale of agricultural and food products from short chain within the municipal markets or the large distribution, establishing the logo "zero or useful kilometer." In conclusion, Mr President, supporting the agri-food sector today is a duty to ensure greater protection for the national community, containing prices for families and ensuring the health of our ecosystem. Choosing local products is a philosophy closely linked to the sustainability and development of a society in harmony with the ecosystem. For these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movimento Parliamentary Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u90	Colleagues, thank you all for the ability to synthesis, in particular Senator Sbrollini, who has shown that he knows how to self-limit himself more than others. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the draft law as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission, with the following title: Rules for the valorisation and promotion of zero kilometre agricultural and food products and those from short supply chains. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u93	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 28 July 2017 - all of us remember - Charlie Gard died at 11 months. Although his parents had asked the British High Court to save his life, he was ordered to detach the machines that kept him alive. On April 28, 2018, Alfie Evans, a nearly two-year-old child, died. For him, too, the sentence of the British High Court was death as the best interest of the minor. It was useless to collect signatures, it was useless to grant Italian citizenship for this child. The judges wrote that he had a futile life. Today, however, we are celebrating an event that is important, let's remember: a British girl, Tafida Raqeeb, was hospitalized in 2019 at the Royal London Hospital in London in an irreversible coma and for her too we risked the detachment of the machines that kept her alive. Already the NHS Trust and the doctors had arranged to stop the treatment. However, the mother, Mrs. Shelina Begum, lawyer as well as of Islamic religion, appealed to the British High Court and in October 2019 the British High Court changed its jurisprudence and authorized the transfer of the child to Italy. The child was hospitalized at the Gaslini hospital in Genoa and was subjected to the necessary medical treatments. Today that little girl, whom the British doctors and judges had given for death, is not only alive, but is in sharp improvement: in 2020 she left the intensive care and improves from day to day. [[Applause]] This is an Italian excellence of which we should be proud. Our country has shown that it is able to take care of children, even those given for doomed and this must give us a great warning to save life always. On March 22nd in London, I will be present at the launch of the foundation "Tafida Raqeeb" dedicated to all children who are given for dealing and for whom there is and must be hope. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u96	However, let me say that it is quite strange that three of the speeches planned relate to energy, on which tomorrow morning we will listen to the Minister. ROJC (PD). Mr President, in recent days, Mr Cingolani has mentioned the fraud against consumers for expensive fuel and we have heard it today in this House too; strong words that I fully agree with, because the situation is really worrying. Today's news is that Minister Patuanelli has announced a decree-law and that in the next few days it is likely the cut of excise duty that is no longer different, as well as there will be other types of interventions not only at national level but also at European level. We must act immediately, because I am sure that the high price of fuel in Italy does not have any justification, it seems now out of control and only an immediate intervention by the State can put the situation back on track. I want to bring back to this House the situation in neighbouring Slovenia, where the authorities have now imposed a ceiling on petrol and diesel prices. Normal petrol will cost a maximum of EUR 1,503 per litre, while diesel will have a limit of EUR 1,541; a decision, that of our neighbours, wise and appropriate. However, this will affect our border economy and the coffers of the Italian State. If we were not to intervene to calm the price, it would be a blow for hundreds of fuel pump operators of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and other Italian border areas, where the fuel price gap is historically large. We must now take action to avoid an unbridled gap. In recent days the distributors placed beyond the border with Italy have been literally assaulted and the passes have recorded an important flow. The saving was worth 40 cents per litre of petrol and 30 cents for diesel: it is a saving that now, after the decision to impose the ceiling mentioned earlier, has increased further. This situation concerns not only Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but also Val d'Ossola, where our compatriots are in line to refuel in Switzerland. In conclusion, we must allow all Italian citizens to have fuel prices in line with those of other European countries, otherwise we too will be complicit in the fraud on which the Minister warned us.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u99	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will also speak on energy issues very quickly, partly because tomorrow morning the Italian Viva-PSI Group, of which I am a member, was invited to have Mr Cingolani in the Chamber. I take the floor, however, to remind the House and you, Mr President, that three years ago I tabled a question which you have never answered on the cost of electricity. I have retabled the same question more or less a month and a half ago on energy extra-profits, in particular gas; I have not yet received any reply. I therefore appeal to you, Mr President, on very sensitive matters on which the Government is also using heavy words today and I imagine that real, such as "colossal fraud," "speculation" and "extraprofits," and I would like to hope that there were no Italian banks and companies linked to this type of speculation and extraprofits. The speculation that Scalarini described a century ago as shark occurs in many moments of life, but in particular in moments of great economic and social fragility. The shark, or speculator, is that subject that does not create wealth and therefore does not participate in its creation, but divides itself the greatest slice of wealth. I hope that tomorrow morning, Minister Cingolani, to whom I recognize great courage, will come with proposals, alongside which he will also indicate the name and surname of those who are the creators of the colossal scam.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u102	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the National Day against Food Disorders. It calls for a reflection on the complex problem of eating disorders; a pathology amplified during the pandemic, which affects in clear prevalence the female sex of adolescent age. It is precisely in women that the consequences of poor nutrition assume a complex and serious physiognomy, associating with other serious disorders involving the gynecological sphere: we speak, among others, of serious delays of the cycle until the complete amenorrhea. Eating disorders only affect about three million people in Italy, especially adolescents or girls between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five. Many forms of disorder, such as anorexia and bulimia, are often combined in the same patient. The Day wants to raise awareness about that something, about that condition that apparently seems far from us and our families, but that in fact is not, not forgetting however the possible conflicts and extra-family conflicts as triggering factor of this pathology. Initiatives, free services, listening and care centers are available to users, also to disseminate information and provide the right support to people who suffer and their families, who every day live and live with these difficult problems. Support from one's family is crucial to those suffering from eating disorders. We must not underestimate the problem and the family must be aware that the way out of the abyss is long and winding and that it is necessary to support competent and motivated professionals. The path of the therapeutic path is studded with ups and downs; despite this, the participation and complete involvement of the whole family becomes decisive to counter the discomfort, the sense of abandonment and loneliness that these problems carry with them. I'm gonna go finish, ma'am. Only by doing this will the positive outcome of the treatment and complete healing be possible. A lilac bow not to forget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u103	Thank you for dealing with a very heartfelt subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u106	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, we are involved in the economic response and sanctions against Russia; we can say that we are involved in a real economic war towards Moscow. These sanctions have led to a fall in the ruble value by almost 37 percent; Russia has been burning 30 billion dollars of its gross domestic product in a few days. But the collapse of the Russian economy and the counter-sanctions that - we cannot deceive ourselves - we expect also lead to negative consequences on the economy of the West, on Europe in particular and even more particularly on our country. The first point we are dealing with is precisely that of energy independence from Moscow. But let's face it, it's gonna take a long time. Another important point, Mr President, which needs to be clarified, is undoubtedly that of the unjustified increase in the cost of raw materials, primarily gases and fuels. If we deepen this increase in its causes, we see that there are no causes. Let's give an example. We supply ourselves from Russia for about 40% of national gas and hydrocarbons needs; but the contracts with Russia are ten years old, twenty years old, if not thirty years old. Then this increase in fuel does not depend on the war, because we are recording it already from the end of 2021 and the beginning of 2022; Russia is continuing to provide us with gas normally for 40%. Now, where there are no causes, the answer is simple. We have only one word left: speculation. Mr President, according to Confesercenti (but also according to other consumer associations) this speculation is leading to an inflation rate of 8% already in 2022. There will be 26 billion less in consumption. Who's paying? Citizens always pay: truck drivers, taxi drivers, agents of commerce, citizens who deserve respect. We're getting out of the pandemic now. Then, Mr President, excise duties must be eliminated. We pay that of 1935, referring to the war of Ethiopia [[Applause]] , 1963 for the Vajont disaster, 1980 for the Irpinia earthquake. Mr President, I shall end by saying that we want to see a list of energy companies which have made a great deal of money out of this speculation, not only to tax them, but also to sanction them and to direct the proceeds into a fund to cope with the increase in cost, in order to alleviate the economic suffering of the citizens. [[Applause]] Mr President, a year ago I tabled a question which referred to energy suppliers who have tax havens in other locations. Well, we'd also like the list... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u107	I have given you more than expected time, Senator Lomuti, also because, since no representative of the Government is present, I do not know who you are making requests to, especially from the majority parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-413.ana.u109	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 16 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.)
