ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u6	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, it is a difficult morning for all of us. Russia's attack on Ukraine is of unprecedented gravity. We believe it is necessary for the Senate to vote for the firm and unanimous condemnation of the Russian attack and military invasion. There can be no space for distinction or ambiguity. That is why we are calling for President Draghi, after today's meetings in the various areas of NATO and the European Union, to report back to Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u9	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, the Movimento 5 Star Group also strongly condemns the Russian attack on Ukrainian territory. As we said yesterday to Mr Di Maio, we recognize the great work of mediation carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and we still trust that a solution can be found. In particular, Mr President, we are particularly close to the Ukrainian population and I want to take up the Pope's words a few days ago, when he said that humanity, who boasts of moving forward in science and thought, goes back instead in weaving peace and that makes us all ashamed. Then - as Senator Malpezzi said - we ask President Draghi to come and report to the House and we really ask the whole Government to support every effort to bring peace back quickly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u12	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the request just made by Mr Malpezzi is of course shared by us. Already at the last Conference of the Leaders we said that the presence of Mr Di Maio could not be sufficient in the light of the seriousness of the situation which unfortunately already yesterday, apart from the events of this night, was perceived as dramatic. Therefore, it is absolutely urgent for the President of the Council to report to Parliament on the actions Italy intends to follow up with regard to the dramatic crisis that is taking place. As the Brothers of Italy Group, we confirm our condemnation of what is an unacceptable military attack on a sovereign state and against international law. And we ask you to know from the voice of President Draghi what are the choices, reactions and measures Italy intends to take together with European and international partners, in the hope that, at least this time, the European Union and the West will be able to make their voice heard. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u15	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group condemns Russia's ongoing military aggression against Ukraine. We fully support President Draghi for a joint response from the Allies. We need a strong, compact, united West. Our hope, of course, is that hostilities will cease immediately and that we will return to the line of diplomacy and dialogue, which is the main way to resolve conflicts. I quote, in this regard, a statement made by former US Secretary of State Richard Nixon on 5 March 2014, that Ukraine must represent a bridge between the West and Russia and not an outpost of one against the other and vice versa. Let's start from this point of view. I agree that there should be no ambiguity, no distinction, but also no speculation. [[Applause.]] I think, in fact, that it is wise - I say this - to point out that Italian diplomacy, which has always played an important role and a long tradition in relations with Moscow, can be useful at this time of difficulty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u18	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, condemns the war and is for peace. This is the time to be united for one goal: peace, and I repeat peace. The whole Western world must be united in order to make its voice heard uniquely, the voice of an international community that must work for this. Therefore, we also call for President Draghi to come to this House and share the Government's ideas with the Senate, which will make every possible contribution to achieving the greatest and most essential value. We will support the President-in-Office of the Council as much as possible. Diplomacy and dialogue are the only way to try to get out of a situation that we absolutely cannot share and Forza Italia - as always has done in the past and always will - will support this path. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u21	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we had a dark awakening to the news, which we had hoped would not come, of the invasion of Russia against Ukraine. I express our firm condemnation of this attack and great solidarity. We are at the side of the institutions of Ukraine and its people, who are destined to suffer the greatest consequences of this real war, which marks the violation not only of the territorial integrity of that country, but also - clearly - of international law. That's why we're at the side of our government. The work carried out in recent weeks is the right one: alongside the Atlantic Alliance and Europe, with a clear voice from the West in an effort to avoid conflict, but also in the intention to take a firm and resolute decision against this escalation of violence. We therefore also support the request that the President of the Council of Draghi come and report to the House after the European Union has taken decisive decisions on the sanctions to be adopted, which will have to be considered whether to extend to Belarus too, since in the last few hours it seems that the attack is also coming from that country, with the connivance of its Government. Italy stands alongside democracy, democratic rights and values together with Europe and the Atlantic forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had hoped until the last, even yesterday, that this attack would not be achieved, that it not only violates the fundamental principles of international law, the sovereignty of a people and territorial integrity, but that it is also a violence that we thought had now been removed from history. We find ourselves, in fact, war on the borders of Europe. It is obvious, for our part, the condemnation without whether or not. I believe, however, that the firm and united reaction of Europe that has been taking place over the last few hours is absolutely necessary at this time. We also call for President Draghi to come and report to the House and allow the Senate to express its position unitedly with indications to the Government. The moment is very dramatic and there must be a firm response not only of condemnation, but also of a united response from Europe. We still have to make every effort to make sure that we go back and stop an escalation which is in danger of being truly dramatic for the whole of Europe. We are close at this time to the civilian population who, once again, risk having to pay for themselves with dead and wounded. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u27	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, our Group for the Autonomies strongly condemns Putin and Russia's aggressive and criminal attitude towards Ukraine. If this were to be clarified, it was not only Putin's autonomous attitude towards certain territories of Ukraine, but also a much broader and more aggressive project, which risks bringing war to Europe after seventy years. Of course, in stressing all our solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their government, we too fully agree with the request that President Draghi be heard as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u29	If you have to specify something, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u30	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, some of my colleagues have pointed out something that has certainly happened in the heat that I occasionally put into the speeches. Mine was a reference to Richard Nixon's former Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger. I didn't mean former Secretary of State Richard Nixon. The precise otherwise someone might think, since it was in 2014, that it was a mistake. Eating my words, it is always better to correct to prevent then someone, as always, speculi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u31	We recorded it. The Presidency joins the sentiments of condemnation expressed unanimously by the Senate of the Republic and the wish for peace with justice that comes from all the Groups. I will immediately refer to the request made by a number of groups, or by all, to the President Draghi as soon as possible, when he sees fit.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2536, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u33	Mr President, if there is no opposition from my fellow Members, I would ask that the written text of the report be annexed to today's report, by giving up the oral presentation, and by appreciating the circumstances.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u34	The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u35	Mr President, you appreciate the circumstances - as Mr Parrini has just said - would like to do the same. In other words, we would like to say basically: do as you wish, if it were not that we will find ourselves in a few minutes to the fortieth vote of confidence of this truly hypertrophic majority; if it were not that the Brothers of Italy is the only party to support the general debate in the Chamber on a measure that becomes important because of the measures it contains and which concern a thousand aspects, from health to others, which are relevant to important passages in the daily life of our nation; if it were not that today we are going directly to discuss, with the same style and the same technique that I have seen adopted since I sit on this scranno and that, in the inauguration speech of the President of the Republic, it has been pointed out as a practice to abandon, not to follow and not to repeat. We did not vote to elect that President of the Republic, but from the next minute we recognized him, of course, as our President, the President of all, the President of our Republic. You have sanctified him, sanctified him, beatified him in all your speeches in the Chamber, on that occasion as in the other successive ones; the last time was just yesterday or the day before yesterday, and on that occasion I heard a reference to his high statements - I personally share them - but in the attitudes you continue to operate in the same way. An important measure like the one we are considering today would have deserved, in every passage, a deepening in the competent Commissions, because there would have been time and certainly there would have been also the will, on our part, as opposition party, to do - as we never do - non-sterile opposition, but precise and punctual on the topics and topics. Well, today instead, you increase, even, the weight of your superficiality, of your worrying expedition, leaving the entire burden of the general discussion on this provision to the two interventions registered by the party to which I belong, Brothers of Italy. All this moves me, Mr President, not to deal with the issues dealt with by the measure, because it is an absolutely useless and school-based exercise. In my speech, however, I appeal to the institutions which I know are present in so many Members, in each of you, to ensure that this really does not happen again and that you do not continue to adopt such an attitude in all the measures that you are going to take in this short legislative period, which really risks becoming a sort of cross-roads based on this type of attitude. Today we are in the presence of numerous emergencies, among which paradoxically health care seems to be the least worrying. We have a geopolitical emergency that our leaders have dealt with so far. We are facing a dramatic economic crisis. I believe and hope that Parliament, in a whirlwind of dignity - my colleague Mr D'Incà - will at least be able to regain its rightful role in these circumstances and that the President of the Republic has also recalled in his speech of inauguration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u37	Mr President, I usually only speak in this House about measures which concern the Commission to which I belong, and therefore about the environment. However, since there is this Government, I have not spoken much, because the environment has in fact been repealed. Today, on the other hand, I rise to reiterate once again that Parliament has been totally knocked out by Draghi and I would like to invite you to take a minute's thought before it is too late. Many people in this House spent the other day defending the parliamentary prerogatives claimed by the former President of the Council, Renzi, and you do not notice that we are essentially taking away the main function of the Member of Parliament, enshrined in our Constitution. This government is dismantling every practice, every democratic rule and every semblance of them. Several times there has been discussion of the arrogance of governments, very often of the present one to which I have not proudly given my confidence, which has exonerated the role of Parliament with the excessive abuse of the decree-laws. Several times we have complained about their use and above all the use of trust on the decrees, which reached its maximum perversion with the systematic imposition of double trust in both rooms on the same provision. So there was only the appearance of Parliament, giving the competent Commissions at least the opportunity to express an opinion. It was only about appearance, however, because you understand well that a real and serious work on laws that change people's lives cannot be done in two or three days, but it takes time: the time needed for a comparison, to listen, to deepen. Today we can say that there is not even the appearance of what Parliament was: we have reached the climax of an indecency that has become, in fact, established practice. As President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, yesterday I was informed of the assignment - for the sake of the opinion - of the so-called'milleproroghe' decree-law, the examination of which was concluded by the House on 22 February, with the question of trust of course. The decree-law expires on 28 February next Monday, and must therefore be voted on today, because of course it is necessary to prevent Friday, Saturday and Monday from working in Parliament. Therefore, as the Environment Committee, we should have done our work on this measure at this morning's sitting: incardination, examination of the text, general discussion; we should have set a deadline for any comments, prepared an opinion, made explanations of vote and proceed to the final vote; all in 45 minutes to be ready for 9.30 a.m. this morning. [[Applause]] Have you convincedly voted to elect President Mattarella again and not to listen to his words at all? A few days ago the President of the Republic himself said in his speech: "A genuine democracy requires compliance with the rules of decision-making, discussion and participation." I hope you realize that this is not a matter of majority or opposition, nor of the need or not of a measure, but of the very existence and usefulness of the function of the Chambers and their members. Continuing in this way you are abdicating to your function; you are declaring yourself useless, and I emphasize it forcefully. I repeat this to be clear so that it remains in the act: Parliament no longer exercises its legislative function and not even the sacrosanct function of government control. The Members of Parliament, all of us, are denied the right to perform our duties, those for which we have been elected. Now either we demand - majority and opposition - respect for Parliament or we will be forced, when we meet a citizen or a company, to say that we as parliamentarians do not even have the right to breathe, because we are in a real dictatorship. I hope you can really think about what is going on: it is something that is not good for us as representatives of the citizens, but it is certainly not good for the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if there were no appreciable circumstances in the serious international framework that has been determined, the sad practice of fleeing on Thursday would have been staged today. We are in the presence of an omnibus measure by its very nature, the milleproroghe, which is moving towards a new vow of confidence. That is what Mr Zaffini said: we will be in front of the fortieth vote of confidence in a year of the Dragons Government, which starts to beat all the records, tearing even those that we would have considered unsurpassed by the Monti Government. The majority renounces about four hours of general discussion. Everyone applauded President Mattarella's speech when he called for respect for Parliament's prerogatives and, among those who applauded, there are the same Members who today give up the general debate and who over the past few weeks have also applauded the representatives of the Groups who invited them to give their speech in an explanation of vote. If we are not first of all consistent with the role that the people have entrusted to us, electing us as their representatives, by whom do we want our high function of representing the nation to be respected? We must call for respect for Parliament, of course, but no one can give us respect if we are not able to do it first. We continue with the method of urgent decree, in many creative cases. We are witnessing, without the Commissions being able to play their full role. We continue in a de facto monocameralism, which mortifies, on alternate plates, one branch or the other of Parliament. And we do not understand why Members are not given the power to perform their duties to the full. We understand very well that we are in front of a government that is a giant with clay feet. This is certified by the fact that the Government has been beaten four times on a thousand-pronge in the House Commission. This is certified by the fact that last week, here in the Chamber, the government was beaten three times with a level of continuous confusion. We of Brothers of Italy, with our leader Giorgia Meloni, had said that it is not possible to give life to governmental experiences in which apples are put together with pears. When it comes to choosing and deciding according to ideal guidelines and concrete beliefs, this is the result: a continuous conflict, which our nation pays through the mortification of Parliament's role. It is not possible, then, to see the President of the Council who gets angry and calls everyone from the free exit. If the Dragons method of the last year of government were to be that of the permanent threat of resignation in the drawer, then - dear colleagues - the advice is that, if there is such a hurry to go home on Thursday, it would have been much better to return to the vote. The Italians would have satisfied you very gladly. [[Applause]] In any case, just to claim some results that says a lot about our way of understanding the function of opposition, also in this provision Brothers of Italy has brought many proposals. Some of the majority's proposals, however, are proposals that you have rejected on other measures, demonstrating that you are also able to subtract with little dexterity what is the work done by others. We would like to stress the result that we have achieved with the adoption of an amendment that has raised the cash use ceiling from 1,000 to 2,000 euros. This is the only measure that will give some oxygen and the possibility to revive some consumption; those consumptions that you have destroyed through the unsavory choice of the use of the green pass, a measure that has served absolutely nothing, only to limit individual freedoms. It has had no real effect from a health point of view, but it has been economically devastating. In conclusion - we are already at the end of the debate, although we are at the beginning of the morning's work - everyone lives in his own world, but it seems to us that the world does not live in each of us. Therefore, if you have the opportunity, in this last year, to demonstrate, with a glimmer of dignity and pride, that Parliament is not the passcard of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u40	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2536... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u42	The howling does not belong to the forms of communication of the Senate of the Republic. Dissent can be expressed in a more civil way.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u43	Please, Minister. Mr D'INCA, Minister for Relations with Parliament. ...for the conversion of Decree-Law No 228 of 30 December 2021 into the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u44	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 228, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Since the Conference of Leaders has thus established, we can proceed directly to the vote on the single article.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u47	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult today to speak in this House about such an important measure, after what happened this night, with the important and united words that were said this morning in the Senate about the war in Ukraine. We are indeed debating and approving a measure in this House which has now become an integral part of our own parliamentary activity. I would like to address a few moments on a preliminary question, which, however, concerns our whole system.Already from the name traditionally attributed to the measure that we are called to examine today ("multi-pronged decree") emerges the vastness and breadth of the arguments that are being touched upon. The decree milleproroghe is an instrument that arises from the need to partially remedy that instability and uncertainty that are intrinsic to our order. It seems clear to me that such an instrument, which should serve as an extrema ratio and exceptionally, has been used systematically for years, leaving unchanged those problems that have gripped our system for too long from an institutional and, above all, legislative point of view. The essence of this measure shows us that it is necessary for Parliament and the Government to make themselves the spokesperson of greater completeness and certainty towards that set of rules which, although essential and expected, cannot remain in uncertainty and be extended from year to year. I am aware that this work will hardly be possible at the end of the parliamentary term, but I would also like, on behalf of the Group I represent, to stress the need for a change in this particular respect, so that we do not always have to use the instrument of a thousand-pronge without having an overall vision. Beyond these preliminary reflections, however, I believe that the decree-law under consideration contains very positive and important responses to a wide range of critical issues and issues that the Government has addressed at first instance and that Parliament, at a later stage, has integrated and improved, in the light and in the wake of the tasks entrusted to us by the Constitution. On this specific point, I will return more punctually at the end of my speech. In the meantime, I would like to stress the commitment that the Commissions I and V, meeting in the Chamber, have expressed in concluding such a broad and cross-cutting measure. Of course, I cannot fail to express regret at the fact that it is impossible to analyse and amend the measure on a timely basis in this area of Parliament as well. In any case, I believe that the work of colleagues and colleagues in the House has been profitable, also thanks to the important side that has been offered by the rapporteurs of the measure, but also by the Government itself, whom I thank, and by the whole majority. Italia Viva-P.S.I. has worked with great intensity, loyalty and political and institutional correctness. Although there is a substantial lack of resources, I believe that the work done has been remarkable and profitable for the important results achieved. For reasons of time, Mr President, I am not allowed to retrace in an analytical way the amendments we have proposed and which have been approved, but I will try to concentrate on the most significant ones. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of the application of the provisions on simplification of the employment of public land and public areas by public establishments until 30 June 2022, which allowed, together with the vaccination campaign and the green pass, to maintain open exercises and activities. I am also thinking of another norm, which concerns the many young people seeking employment for the road haulage sector: this is the measure that allows young people up to thirty-five years of age and those who receive the income of citizenship or other social shock absorbers to benefit from a contribution for the achievement of the licence and professional ratings for the driving of vehicles intended for the road haulage of goods. These are important answers and for this I would like to thank my colleagues from the Commissions on the subject, who have also worked in close contact with Deputy Minister Teresa Bellanova, whom I thank. I also want to mention the work, in the within of the matter of the transports, that it has led to the approval of a text that will allow - on the one hand - the dispensation in favor of the supplier of harbour job of a contribution up to 90 euros for the worker, also for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2022, and - on the other - to the harbour authorities to allocate the 1% of own revenues deriving from the taxes of boarding and disembarkation own to the incentive of the early retirement of the harbour workers. So there are many contributions that Italy Viva-P.S.I. I hope that all the adjustments that have been proposed during the Commission's work will be read. Parliament has the power and the duty to contribute to the conversion of a decree-law adopted by the Government. I would like to emphasise this particularly in the light of the particularly sensitive days in the Commission. When a government is supported by such a large majority as had ever been seen, it is no wonder that the different sensibilities emerge clearly in the parliamentary debate, perhaps on hot and felt issues, but this is part of the normal parliamentary dynamic. On the contrary, the different perspectives can constitute a plus of the debate, provided they remain in the ranks of a confrontation and above all provided that the significant path that has been traced by this Government is not questioned and that we cannot afford to ignore today. In conclusion, the attitude of Italy Viva-PSI has always been a strong responsibility and I believe that there can be no doubt about this. We were the first to ask for a change of pace and for this we were also hard attacked. Now that, thanks to the work done by President Draghi and the Government team, we are finally going in the right direction, certainly not Italy Viva-PSI will question the political line of the Executive, which we strongly support and to which we want to confirm and reaffirm our full confidence. On behalf of our Italian colleagues, Viva-PSI, we therefore vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u50	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, once again for a branch of Parliament it was impossible to improve the text of a decree-law. It is another vulnus to bicameralism and I really wonder what you want to do in the future to avoid these situations. As I have already explained several times, it is not possible for a branch of Parliament, which not only has the right but also the duty to examine government measures, to be unable to do so. Despite this, the Group for the Independents will vote in favour of this measure. Thanks also to the work of the other branch of Parliament, the text offers a series of answers to citizens, businesses and public administrations involved in the exit from the emergency. The most important one is certainly the golden power, with the maintenance of the extended fields of application during the Covid. In recent months we have seen the importance of this rule in relation to national interests which must be protected and protected. Therefore, not only is the extension fair, but there is probably a need for regulatory intervention to make the role of the State structural in relation to sectors and enterprises that play a strategic role. All tax extensions are good; the reopening of the time limits for the payment of installments at the outbreak of the pandemic; the additional six months for the repayment of loans guaranteed by the State up to EUR 30,000; the extension of tax concessions on the purchase of the first house; the extension to 31 May 2022 of the deadline for the submission of applications for access to the savings compensation fund in the case of incomplete application. Also important are the rules for public administrations; the possibility for the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to anticipate the use of the administrative surplus also for 2022; the extension for the stabilization of precarious persons in the public administration; the year in addition for the conduct of public competitions in Ministries, tax agencies, police and firefighters. There are also numerous measures to protect the productive sectors, including those in favour of agriculture, with new deadlines for the periodic review of agricultural machinery and the extension of incentives for biogas-fired energy production plants and, of course, the extension of the time limits for withholding taxes on employees' incomes, additional taxes and VAT for livestock farms affected by the recent spread of swine fever. I then think of the measures for road haulage, with the bonus of 2,500 euros for young people between eighteen and thirty-five years who want to obtain the driver's license to drive the truck and thus favor a generational replacement, also for safety reasons. A particular mention deserves the bonus for the psychologist, because it reminds us that the crisis has not only had economic or health costs; there is an issue that concerns the younger generations that requires great attention and the bonus also has this meaning. In short, at the stage we are going through, this measure has taken on a much wider role than it usually does. As I said, it has become one of the points of response to the path of escape from the crisis and, therefore, I announce the favorable vote of the Group Per le Autonomie (SVP-PATT, UV). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u53	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to speak at such a dramatic time for the whole world. We are talking about a ridiculous decree - and I will explain why I make such a statement - while there is a risk that this night a potentially global war has broken out and unfortunately in a context in which our country and Europe have proved themselves and are proving absolutely absent. Well, in the midst of all this, we are discussing a decree on which yet another confidence will be placed and which comes to the attention of the Senate Assembly in the indifference of a Parliament that has become accustomed. Only a few days ago my colleagues - I remember that only the Brothers of Italy Group actually engaged in the general discussion of this measure - said that we would arrive at the imposition of the question of trust, and so it was, while the President of the Republic had asked the Chambers, and of course the Government, for a renewed role of responsibility. The conclusion is that all those who have filled themselves with joy and have peeled their hands for the words used during the election of our President of the Republic have only allowed a few hours to go back to the vote of confidence. So vote of confidence, general debates that are deserted, explanations of vote of which - as happened a month ago - written texts are delivered, without even being read and announced in Parliament. The role of our democracy tends, therefore, to be more and more assimilable to a form of parliamentary government, to a form of subjugated parliament, with a government that comes here simply to have a formal authorization to proceed, which is not the one for the magistrates, but the one that we are asked to give in this case. On the subject, Mr President, I would like to say that only the Brothers of Italy Group can claim to have succeeded in doing something good to the House of Deputies; I would stress this: in the House, because here in the Senate we have not been able to analyse the measure even in the Commissions. I would remind you that the Finance Committee, of which I am a member, has not even expressed its opinion, even as a form of unanimous protest because there is no longer even the time and the way of working. I certainly express, and in any case, my personal solidarity with Mr D'Incà, because I believe that no Minister for relations with Parliament has had to make certain figures for so many times. I personally pay tribute to him for my solidarity, but politically the bitterness for what is happening is truly profound. We of Brothers of Italy are proud to claim to have obtained the extension for the lowering of the ceiling of cash, which therefore for this year does not go up to 1,000 euros, but remains to 2,000 euros; it would have been really demential, at a time when our tourism and our trade are suffering, having to ask all this to foreigners who already do not come to Italy because we ask for the green pass and go instead - rightly - to countries smarter than ours, which, despite everything, perhaps have less problems than we and in which the green pass is not required. Not only that, therefore: with this measure we also make sure that those foreigners go shopping abroad, perhaps in neighbouring Austria, where they can use the cash without having to resort to other means of payment. The result is therefore proudly claimed by the Brothers of Italy, while the Government I believe has very little to claim. Mr Steger, who preceded me, spoke of the psychological bonus. On the substance I agree - I would miss it - with a government that has made DAD a philosophy of life and that, unceasingly, has continued with absurd green passes, which are useless, as demonstrated by themselves. I share this bonus, but I was not allowed to present the amendment that I would have liked because of the imposition of trust: I would have liked to propose that the cost be borne by Minister Hope, since the psychological bonus is to be charged to the political inconsistency of those who wanted to manage the pandemic in this shameful way. It is not the citizen and the general taxation who must assume the cost of the psychological bonus, but it must be the Minister who, unceasingly, with the approval of the Government, has remained in his place, continuing with a health policy that throughout Europe has no equal for closures and restrictions, with damage to people - otherwise there would be no need for the psychological bonus - and the economy, as we have seen. But it's not enough. What have you done, gentlemen of the government, on the subject of energy? As I said, we are at the door of a war that risks being global. The energy problem is very serious. In our country there has been no energy policy for years: nuclear energy cannot be named - even if we buy it from the countries that produce it - and we do not even have to extract gas because this seems to destroy the environment. So, no gas. After that, however, companies are no longer able to compete on the markets and families will probably no longer be able to warm up. I would like to understand from the Movimento 5 Stars if the TAP pipeline should also be closed. Do we also want to stop the gas coming from Africa? At least I remember that the position of the main governing party was to close the TAP for the passage of African gas. In the same way, I remember that the first party of the Dragon Government is against the regasifiers. So, no gas to store. Where, then, is the government of the best? What is the energy response we give to our country and Europe? Where do you want to go? These are the questions that a citizen, an entrepreneur and an Italian industrialist ask themselves and whose answers they would like from their own government. On the other hand, the psychologist's bonus comes on the charge of general taxation to remedy the damage of Minister Hope. No, gentlemen of the majority, you have not put together the Government of the best: you have put together everything and more to keep the chair, something different from the Government of the best. The government has failed in health care and is failing in the economy and does not have a strategic vision in energy policy, which is crucial at this time. The government, if it had to talk about extensions, had to remember instead the extensions of financing and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises. And none of that. I shall begin by concluding, Mr President, by returning to the issue of energy. Since you are all pro-Europeans in words - perhaps we are in fact - no one has thought of looking at Europe which has renewed its concessions to all hydroelectric power companies? We do not, however, do so, with the result that our hydroelectric companies have not made investments for years because - logically - they cannot count on the time to be able to amortize them. [[Applause]] This means that our companies that produce and produce energy, not investing, actually have 30 to 40% less than hydropower production potential. In summing up and concluding, thanks to those who are against gas we find ourselves with 30-40 billion cubic meters of gas that are not extracted in the Adriatic and a 30-40 percent of less energy production because of the missed extensions, which we do not do while Germany, France and other European countries do. It is a shame and we are tired, Mr President. I would like to address the only representative of the Government who has remained in this Chamber: tell President Draghi that this cannot go on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u56	BITI (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again to make an explanation of vote on the decree-law of extension, which we could now define as an annual decree, since we are here every year to peek at what are within this measure the many terms that are being extended with a very precise intention, however, that is to ensure that many parts of the country do not stop in their operation: businesses, workers and local authorities must indeed be supported and helped. Of course, it is true that it is always time to postpone and extend time limits for matters that often, year after year, are being proposed, it is time to question Parliament, all of us, and also the Government, about the need to perhaps put a more structural hand on so many issues. We receive and are sure to turn into positive action the invitation that President Draghi has made, even in his press conference, to cooperate as much as possible. Parliament is ready for this, we know that in this House, and we have said so many times: what we are all interested in is being able to examine the measures as best we can, so that we can give answers as close as possible and of real help to the many who may be in difficulty. I think I can say that from all of us, and certainly and above all from the Democratic Party, there is this intention and there is also a great deal of attention to the measures that the Government sends to the Chambers. There is also certainly the desire, the will and the desire to fully exercise our role and our duty. Mr President, adherence to reality leads me to want to be dry, because we are living a morning of great concern for a tragedy that is taking place at the gates of Europe, very close to us. I will therefore try to address only two aspects which I am particularly interested in in this decree-law extending time limits. The first concerns all those interventions which, with the extension of so many deadlines, help the local authorities. The Democratic Party and - I believe - each of the parties present in this House have at heart the functioning of our Municipalities and Local Authorities, and all the measures that in some way support and help the real backbone of this country, that is, the Municipalities, especially the small ones, must be welcomed. I believe that there must also be great commitment and interest on the part of both the Government and, I repeat, especially with regard to the small municipalities which are the real structure of this country, and also of Parliament. The other aspect that I stress - I see that Senator De Bertoldi was also very interested - is definitely the mental health bonus. Allow me this morning to make some clarifications, because I believe that the sillogism that I hear used by many and that Senator De Bertoldi also used - which I invite to put back the mask, moreover - that because you have now closed us create the psychological bonus, you identify that lack of adherence to the reality that I was talking about before. To argue that an increase in mental discomfort and related problems is caused only by these two years of pandemics is to say something that is not true. We now know from well-established scientific studies that the worsening of so many situations of discomfort is progressive over the years, although it is undeniable that these two years have given a final blow to those already experiencing situations of difficulty. The psychological bonus comes to the aid of so many people who currently need support regardless of age; it is known, however, that the Democratic Party had already worked in this direction in the budget law to foresee the presence in schools of reference figures for psychological support to pupils and their families. For us, of course, this has always been fundamental, since the budget law, and I thank the many colleagues from all the parties involved in this regard; we also made a press conference in which, I remember, Senators Pirro, Gallone, De Petris, Parente and also colleagues from the League and Brothers of Italy participated. The same Group of Senator De Bertoldi, therefore, participated in that press conference arguing, already in the examination of the budget law, that the mental health bonus should be provided. He argued this when it was thought to allocate 50 million and not 20 as now, but we believe that this figure is also a great recognition to all those people who are in difficulty and who need not only economic help, but also to disassemble that stigma that still pervades and invades all - not all but many, really too many - who have a difficulty and feel that they are not good. In our country, unfortunately, even today, those who have a discomfort are often comforted by encouraging them to go drinking with friends and talk to them. There are moments, however, when only professionals can take care of those who have these problems, so that they do not become even bigger problems. For us, this is also an investment in the future, because we think that our National Health Service should also be strengthened in the part that deals with mental health, but that we also need a direct support intervention for citizens who are experiencing a time of difficulty, an intervention that informs them that the State is close to them and that they have nothing wrong if they want to turn to a professional to talk about their problems. With the amendment, which has been adopted in the other branch of Parliament and for which I thank my Group in the House, in particular Mr Sensi, but also the other Groups, we have dismantled at least one piece - and we will continue to do so - of cultural prejudice that accompanies all those who still need psychological support in our country to avoid being in greater difficulties. It is also for this reason that the Democratic Party vote on the question of trust placed on the decree extension terms is favorable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u59	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I immediately declare that our Group will vote for confidence. In this measure there are several important and positive interventions concerning local authorities, recruitment in local authorities, the participation for teachers, the possibility of taking on from the existing rankings to provide for the supplements - which we had strongly advanced already in the examination of the budget law - the extensions related to school construction. The choice made by Parliament in relation to the ILVA issue is very important. I would also like to point out a very important point that we had strongly raised during the examination of the budget law on which, however, we did not receive a positive response, that of the workers made redundant by Air Italy, who were left without any form of support. This measure gives an important answer. Moreover, the repayment of SME loans and a number of other extensions are expected to be suspended. As my previous colleagues and colleagues have said, we are at a very difficult, very serious time. We have all rightly stated that we support the action of the Government and the President of the Council. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u60	Colleagues, if possible, I would ask you to keep your voice down so as not to disturb your colleague. Please, Senator Errani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u61	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Don't worry, ma'am, thank you. I'd like to make a political point. It is time to strengthen the ranks, to find aspects of unity, not of confrontation. The situation we are facing is not only very serious from the point of view of international politics for the very serious act of breaking any rule of international law, but will also have important repercussions on the economy, first of all on the energy issue, and will pose very serious problems from the point of view of management and of what had started as a robust growth of our country. We think only of the situation of the road haulage, of the goods, that it is already causing very serious problems. I am thinking of some actions that have been put in place and I am addressing my colleagues in the League in the first place. I am referring, for example, to the amendments adopted against the Government's opinion. Let us be clear: Parliament has full autonomy and it is right that it amends the government's measures, but if we are a majority, especially at a time like this - as the League's Parent Company said before - we cannot play the game with force and with majority shots on this or that measure, regardless of a common understanding on the steps we must take. The situation is too delicate to put in place particular initiatives by this or that political group to perhaps launch an electoral message. This is not the time for the election campaign. I hope that this is a clear element for all of us: just as it is for us, it must apply to all the majority groups. We can and must sometimes amend the texts, as has happened, for example, on the issue of Ilva and on the positive intervention included in the thousand-pronge on a parliamentary initiative, but we must make shared choices. There can be no unilateral action by this or that party. I hope that at such a difficult time this will be the commitment of all the Groups. Then there are some issues - that of the cash roof or the extension until 2025 of animal testing - that do not convince us, but we will not vote for the confidence placed on the measure. You have to have the ability to build synthesises and be committed to carrying them forward. Finally, a small consideration on the mental health bonus. This is an emergency situation and this can only be an extraordinary emergency intervention. However, it remains a strategic point. The departments of mental health and hygiene are at disaster and it is essential to invest strategically on them. From this point of view, I repeat what I said yesterday: there is a need for an organic reform of health that is able to interpret the new that imposes on us the Covid-19 and the new that imposes on us the pandemic situation. I hope that, in using this bonus you will find a way to build a relationship between the use of the bonus itself and the departments of mental health and hygiene, because taking charge is the fundamental value. Let's be clear: it is certainly not with a bonus regardless - as Totò would say - that takes charge. We need to discuss this seriously. It is right, in fact, what Mrs Biti said about the need to combat cultural prejudice, but how can it be done if we have a psychologist or psychiatrist every 250,000 inhabitants? Again, when you turn to private clinics you need credit - I don't know if it's clear - because, being so delicate the game, we have to tell citizens who use the bonus to understand well from who they go and to what skills and to what professionalism they turn to. We must be very careful so that a positive measure does not turn into a boomerang. I would like to conclude by repeating a political concept. We find a way, as a majority, to change also the relationship between government and Parliament, majority and opposition. However, we will have to prove that we are up to the moment. And this moment requires unity, synthesis and ability to work together without forcing or breaking. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u64	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, today talking about a thousand-pronged decree is certainly complicated. It's a special day. We all woke up in front of a historic moment that we never wanted to live: the military occupation of Ukraine by the troops of the Russian Federation. Of course, there are so many questions and, therefore, talking here about a measure called a thousandprorogues is certainly not the best. We must, however, move forward and therefore bring this measure to an end. The Forza Italia Group supports this majority and will vote for the trust placed on this decree. On the subject, this is one of those measures that are re-proposed annually on very specific issues, which also concern the daily lives of many people and some of my colleagues have mentioned specific cases. Among other things, the measure has been profoundly modified by the branch of Parliament to which it was assigned at first reading, the House of Deputies, which has intervened decisively, indeed decisively, in amending a decree containing more or less 100 extensions which have then become more than 300. So, the definition of milleprorogues, which is just a way of saying, was about to become real since 300 extensions are really many. It is clear and clear that sometimes it would be appropriate to put an end to the institutionalized referrals; many issues should be defined, which concern public competitions or the subject of public administrations and local authorities. It is, however, true that decisions which are of temporary significance have also been taken in this measure, with an extremely effective and proactive attitude. I have to say that our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have made a decisive contribution to the House's amendment to the extension of the deadlines so as to meet the concrete needs of our society. More than 50 amendments proposed by members of the Forza Italia Group to the House have been adopted, amendments which mainly concern the economic sector, which is one of the historical issues that are particularly close to the heart of Forza Italia, a liberal party that obviously pays attention to the health of small and medium-sized enterprises, through the help, the support, the facilitation and the simplification of the general framework of this fundamental sector that supports the national economy. I'm not here to talk about individual interventions. Of course, for us this measure comes armored - as we use to say - dear representative of the Government, because this legislature has been compromised and spoiled, pathologically spoiled, by the pandemic. In fact, our bicameral system - let me be the exponent of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - has been seriously spoiled and has become a basically monocameral system. This is a measure on which the Senate unfortunately could not touch the ball, it could not intervene because it expires on 28 February. We would have had to convert this decree-law by Monday and this prevented us - since it was voted in the House only the day before yesterday - from intervening to improve it further. We at Forza Italia have little controversy. We are a party that cannot be of opposition end in itself. We were born to improve this country, we were born to govern it, we were not born to try to use the discontent and bellyache of people and therefore to reward their consent, among other things often eager and illusory. We think about solving problems, we think about dealing with them, taking responsibility for them, assuming responsibility for the choices and sometimes also saying no to requests that clearly conflict with the national needs of our country. We are a responsible force, we have been responsible in all the measures that have been taken by this Government, although we are aware of an extremely heterogeneous majority that sees very different parties together. But, while aware of this, we are obviously equally aware of the fact that, in the end, what we care about is doing good to Italians, working for the well-being of our country and for the well-being of our businesses and our families. [[Applause]] This also means having a spirit characterized by concreteness, so little chatter, little space to stomach aches: the stomach aches we try to cure them, not to ride them, not to stimulate them. We are against anti-politics. We are against populism, we are against the demagogic positions taken only and exclusively to take votes. We want to take votes on that side of Italy, which is aware that the problems must be addressed and solved also and above all by governing them, sharing in the decisions. In this decree-law there are some of these aspects. One of these - I would like to quote him before concluding - was at heart, during last summer, also in this branch of Parliament, here in the Senate: the postponement of about two years of the closure of the courts for minors in the Abruzzo Region, those of Vasto, Lanciano, Avezzano and Sulmona; Senator Vitali will remember it - I thank him for the effective contribution - particularly caught up in the measure that was taken at the time and that unfortunately, then, did not find a favourable outcome in August 2021. On this occasion we have instead grasped the objective, with the promise, from the current Minister of Justice, that finally it will be put hand to the measures related to judicial geography that too hastily had been dealt with and resolved cutting and scissoring, without intervening punctually on the territories. We hope that in this time it will be allowed to intervene in Abruzzo, as in other regions of Italy, to improve the situation created by that indiscriminate, linear and non-criteria that was implemented at the time. The Forza Italia Berlusconi Group President-UDC will vote in favour of the question of trust in the Government and will continue to take full responsibility for bringing Italy out of this crisis, in the hope that the whole world can live in peace for the coming months and years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u67	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year we are voting on the so-called multi-pronged measure which does not end up surprising me every time because, in spite of what the Constitutional Court has repeatedly specified - but is now part of our positive right - it has very little uniformity. The only taxonomic criterion common to the norms contained in the decree-law thousandprorogues is, precisely, the extension of some term. These are, however, terms that cling to completely different subjects. But - so much - it is now a consolidated appointment. To point out that perhaps this is not the best way to proceed in the course of the legislative activity - I realize - is idle exercise. The measure under consideration, among other things, in order to aggravate the negative assessment that generally on a systematic, non-political level, now and now, can be formulated, has hardly been read by us; it has arrived as a meteor and as a meteor will pass through this House. We will certainly vote for it (we are part of the majority). We should all, however, pay more attention to this problem, to this institutional problem: a bicameral system where in some cases the two Chambers function as they should, because one House is used to correct the mistakes of the other and it is good that this happens, but in other cases a branch of Parliament is no use because it has to ratify blindly what the other House hopes has done best. However, there is something good in this decree-law and I am honored to claim the merits not of us Senators of the League, but of our Legist Members of the House. Particular attention has been paid to local authorities, which are part of the institutions closest to the citizens. It is known that the best quality of life is found in smaller centres and the League is attentive to this profile. For example, starting from the Regions, an amendment was approved, supported by all colleagues of the League, aimed at supporting the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, making available the use of the free share of the administrative surplus, obviously after the approval of the statement and before - let it be clear - the judgment of equalization. It is a concrete measure, which is part of a political action that has already begun with the budget law. As a Lega Group we have also presented to the House an agenda in which it was asked that the same be done for the other territorial authorities, therefore the municipalities, that is, the possibility of making available the free surplus, the so-called bottom, and the residual resources of 2020 and 2021 to make them available in 2022. This request came strongly from the local authorities. In addition, we have extended to 31 March the deadline for the approval of forecast budgets by local authorities. This amendment shows a great deal of attention from the League for the implementation of the PNRR. I open a parenthesis to say that it is a bad acronym, so difficult to pronounce, I would say almost cacophonic; we could find something better, our Italian would have allowed it. It is an important measure because it allows the municipalities also to prepare an operational plan for the grounding of the necessary works for the PNRR notices. For the school, support is provided for the staff of the school services: thanks to an amendment we have given the possibility to all institutions to make fixed-term recruitments that allow to have a continuity of service both from the teaching staff and from the auxiliary staff. On disability has been achieved a remarkable result by our excellent Erika Stefani: the fund has been doubled in favour of the assistants of pupils with disabilities. This amendment has led to a doubling from 100 million to 200 million of this very important fund, which provides a service to pupils who have the greatest difficulties and therefore require greater support. I say this to underline the attention to the constitutional principle of solidarity, one of the main political arguments of the League. I would ask you to listen to me for a few more minutes because I do not think we should go on with a list of heterogeneous measures, given what I said at the beginning of my speech. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to point out that, in the margin of approval to the House of the Law of Conversion of this Decree-Law, the League has obtained the approval of an agenda, politically very important, which commits the Government to merging the dates of the future referendums with the dates of the local elections. I would like to draw everyone's attention to this, because the argument that I have heard, that it is customary to separate the vote on referendums from other electoral appointments, is not a valid argument, because a practice, just because it is so, does not mean that it is a good practice. Separating dates means reducing the attention of citizens on the subject of referendums. The referendum is an instrument of direct democracy, wanted by the constituent Fathers and it is our duty to urge, help and accompany the citizens to exercise their right. Separating dates means sending a bad signal, a diseducational signal. We are also here to indicate paths of growth for the Italian people and it is a good argument to join dates: it means telling the Italians that referendums are important, that they must participate because it is their right but also their duty, because the exercise of referendary activity is part of the constitutional guarantees to protect popular sovereignty. I therefore hope that this agenda will be kept in the highest consideration by the Government. And I am only quick to mention the issue of saving, because combining the dates means saving the state many millions of euros - I think about 200 - that we could use for disadvantaged people, for disabled people, for all those we must not leave behind. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for voting in favour of this measure on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u70	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to adopt a measure which traditionally serves to launch different but urgent and necessary interventions. It was necessary to make good use of it and take the opportunity to work in the service of citizens and businesses, the right to health and work. Compatibly with the space reserved to Parliament for the amending activity, still too compressed - and I address the representative of the Government - the Movimento 5 Star Group worked with colleagues of the House to improve the text of the Executive and collect instances of territories such as those concerning the Ilva of Taranto: the protection of the environment and health are priority and indispensable rights and for a few weeks fundamental principle of the Italian Constitution. The reclamations, planned and financed for a long time, have become improcrastinable for us. That is why we have tabled the deleterious amendment to Article 21, which was then adopted, in order to provide for the transfer of considerable resources from reclamation to production activities. It was not possible to give up the long-awaited activities of environmental recovery for an indefinite and indefinite process of decarbonisation, of which the contents of the investment, the financial needs, the industrial plan and many other indispensable elements are not known. Moreover, definanceing the changes would also have meant permanently giving up the possible employment of the more than 1,200 workers of the former Ilva in extraordinary administration. Not everything has gone as we wanted and, above all, according to the needs of Italy. The raid with which the cash payment threshold has been raised to EUR 2,000 is in stark contrast to the commitments and targets set by the PNRR. In this way we have engaged the reverse with respect to the road we had undertaken in the years of the Count Governments with cashback, digitization and traceability of payments. [[Applause]] It's not good for us. In our opinion, the strengthening of electronic payment instruments must be at the heart of the work with which we are building Italy in the coming years. Digital development has enormous potential in terms of simplification and combating evasion which, as we know, is a real boulder for Italy. However, the positive work carried out on this decree-law has other results to be reckoned with and which inflate my Group. We introduced the therapist bonus. After the appropriation, provided for in the last budget law, of EUR 25 million for eating disorders and the strengthening of psychological support in schools, we managed to bring home this achievement. It is a concrete aid to all those who find themselves experiencing an uneasiness that is still too much lived as a taboo and that instead we know well how present it is, even more after these two years of pandemics that have put our balances to the test. The bonus will reach 600 euros in the year and could affect about 18,000 people. We then established the provision, for 2022, of EUR 32.5 million for innovative and quality structures in the provision of oncology pediatric services. Never before is it necessary to devote resources to care and prevention. Among the dramatic consequences of Covid there is also the least attention paid to other pathologies. After a battle that went on for months and the intercourse with the Government and in the majority, the extension was finally approved to keep the courts open in Abruzzo. [[Applause]] The extension is to postpone by one year the closure of the offices of the courts of Vasto, Lanciano, Sulmona and Avezzano in order to revise and update the model of judicial geography. In the Commission Justice to the Senate a special bill of the Movimento 5 Stars previews an overall reorder of the dislocation of the courts in Italy in order to remedy to several twists produced from the reform of the Government Monti launched in 2012. Ten years later, it is worth pointing out that this measure has not achieved the objectives of efficiency and rationalization that posed itself and how it has produced considerable criticalities, leaving large territories in our country deprived of the necessary safeguards of justice and legality. Finally, I would like to point out that, thanks to an amendment approved in the Budget Committee in the House, public research bodies will be able to continue with staff stabilisation in 2022 as well. [[Applause]] The National Research Council, in particular, will be able to use 10 million euros allocated in the 2022 budget law to hire researchers again this year. Mr President, for all the reasons listed, the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u72	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u73	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, you are right when you say that howling is not a form of dissent in this House, just as it certainly is not the throwing of cards on the head of the Minister who announces the imposition of the fortyth question of trust in the House. I do not think, however, that this House is in agreement with the systematic crumbling of its functions. [[Comments.]] This appears to you something recently, since we have repeated the same words for years in a impoverishment of the words themselves. Yet, it is no less serious. There was a time when, even on TV, we proclaimed the beauty of our Constitutional Charter as the most beautiful in Europe. It is difficult to change the Constitution: there is a specific article that states how, in what manner and with what passages you can do it. On the other hand, the practice of a de facto change has been increasingly established over the years. [[Applause]] This appears to you something recently but it is not, because we are losing our democratic structure dictated by our Constitution, which is the first law on all laws. [[Applause]] The architectural structure that makes us a bicameral republic has collapsed and so it happens that, at the end of February, we find ourselves with yet another question of confidence to ratify a decree-law that is an anomaly - I am ending, Mr President - itself. In fact, extensions, even if they are made, as my colleague said, to the bodies responsible for implementing the laws, can be and are already included in the laws themselves... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Thank you, you're a sincere democrat.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u74	I even gave her extra time. I can't understand her. Maybe she didn't notice that she was over the minutes available and that I also authorized her to give her more time. In any case, thank you very much. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u75	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill n. 2536, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law 30 December 2021, n. 228, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government - as you know and have been the subject of debate - raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. I take this opportunity to ask Senators Quaestors to consider whether this should be adopted in the future, given that trust is not so rare. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings in the centre of this House. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Floridia is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Floridia. Colleagues - as I have just said - please do not stop in this House, otherwise we get that, on the one hand, we do not go ahead of the Presidency and, on the other, that the assembly is even higher. PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting operations, the Presidency takes over - 12.05 a.m. -). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of bill n. 2536, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 228 of 30 December 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 222 Senators voting 222 Majority 112 Favourites 196 Contrars 26]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 228 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u78	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, today marks an anniversary of great sorrow for the Azerbaijani people: they remember the thirty years since the great massacre of Khojaly, committed by the armed forces of Armenia against the Azerbaijani civilians in the city of Khojaly in Azerbaijan. What happened on the night between 25 and 26 February 1992 is one of the most atrocious pages of contemporary history, a great crime committed against the civil population of Azerbaijan during the decades of the conflict with Azerbaijan, the most tragic page in the first war of Karabakh: 613 people, including 63 children, 106 women and 70 elderly, were brutally killed; 1,275 people were taken prisoner, held hostage and tortured. The fate of another 150 people remains unknown; exterminated families and orphaned children of both parents. The European Court of Human Rights, in its decision of 22 April 2010 on crimes committed in Khojaly, came to an important conclusion, assessing the behaviour of the perpetrators of atrocities committed as acts of particular gravity comparable to war crimes or crimes against humanity. I would like to stress that even today the perpetrators of the terrible massacre remain unpunished and it is of great importance, even more so at a time as dramatic as that which we live in the world, that the international community insists that the responsibilities of this massacre be recognized and Armenia ask forgiveness for what has been accomplished, definitively interrupting the chain of hatred, allowing a real reconciliation between the countries and the normalization of the region. It would be important for Italy, like other European countries, to recognize the facts of Khojaly for what they really were: a genocide against civilian populations guilty only of their ethnic origin.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u81	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the confidence we have just adopted, based on the so-called'multi-pronged' decree, makes it almost necessary for me to ask the answer to some of the questions that I have already tabled and which have as their object the protection of health through what I consider to be one of the most important health determinants that there are. When entering the Ministry of Health, the health determinants highlighted are four and one of them is no to smoking. Well, as part of this no-smoking process, large tobacco manufacturers, especially Americans, have conducted operations for which they have invented products based on apparent data and in a scientifically unproven way. Indeed, they did so with a collection of data that demonstrates the falseness of a series of conclusions that have been drawn; so until recently we considered Philip Morris, in his common discovery or at least in his commercial proposal of heated tobacco, as basically the equivalent of a large producer that, unable to invest adequately - also because in Italy the Sirchia law is still in force on this point - invents a product that is heated tobacco. It does so by setting up a very large company in Emilia Romagna and, therefore, by putting into play a series of jobs that should cover the explicit damage to health that tobacco still causes. A few days ago another by-product of tobacco, this time British American Tobacco, was added to the House of Deputies, exactly as part of the examination of the thousand-pronged decree, in particular in Article 3. For those who didn't catch it, they are small capsules, small vesicles that fit in the mouth to guarantee the person the amount of nicotine he has become addicted to. This is also an assault on health; this also comes from large companies; we also make ourselves complicit in this in some way. I would like to have an answer to these questions, because at a time when health becomes a valuable asset, at a time when, like yesterday, we are voting on a rule that links the company and good health and we are doing it unanimously, the idea that two of the great tobacco producers find maximum cooperation at the limits of connivance on tobacco products that are the direct emanation to me seems profoundly contradictory. I therefore urge the answer to my questions, even taking into account what has happened with the latter bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u84	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, our eyes and prayers are addressed to the Ukrainian people. I intervene to give a voice to those who desperately try to get it to the institutions. In these hours, as in recent days, there is a strike of the haulers mainly due to the increase of the fuel Now, beyond the method of protest - right or wrong - I think that the institutions, the politics, the government can not pretend anything, because the problem affects a very important sector, if not strategic, of our Country, that is basically a manufacturing country. More needs to be done to support this sector, which has been hit by an energy crisis that reverberates all citizens, as we see from the increase in bills. For the third time in a few months our Government has allocated billions of public funds to alleviate the economic suffering of all citizens and the same thing is happening in other European countries. Europe is now the epicenter of a global energy crisis. It is regrettable, however, to be aware that in this energy crisis, for which all citizens suffer economic suffering, there are companies - especially those in the energy sector - which, on the other hand, show very substantial and important revenue and profits. In a civilized country it cannot and must not happen that, on the suffering of the vast majority, there are those who, instead, get rich. [[Applause]] I therefore appeal to the Government to intervene with a sort of redistribution of wealth to the detriment of those who are enriched in these situations, and to make a further appeal for Europe as a whole to bear the cost of fuel and energy, because individual states cannot be left alone to cope with this energy crisis. Let us remember that we are here to do the interests of citizens and not of individual companies in certain energy sectors. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u85	Colleagues, in relation to the development of the international situation, I suspend the sitting for further communications from the Presidency on the proceedings of the Senate. (The sitting was suspended at 12:18 a.m. and resumed at 13:16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has established that tomorrow, at 12.30 a.m., a report by the President of the Council of Ministers on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine will be held by direct television. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes, with the exception of the Mixed Groups and Brothers of Italy, to whom ten minutes have been attributed. On Tuesday 1 March, at 10 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. The intervention and reply of the President of the Council of Ministers and explanations of vote will take place by direct television transmission. The Groups will be able to speak in general debate for ten minutes each. The explanations of vote on any address instruments presented will follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-408.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Friday 25 February, at 12.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13:17 a.m.
