ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2604, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Boldrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u5	Mr President, I will make a brief reply - yesterday's general debate was quite fruitful - to say that today we are going to convert a very important decree-law, since we are talking about reopenings and the end of the emergency. I remember - and I also mentioned this in the Commission, but it is worth repeating here, to thank you - that 90% of the population is vaccinated. The Italians have assumed a responsibility towards their country - and we must really thank them - reaching one of the highest immunizations in the world. This has allowed, thanks also to the measures of distancement and the use of masks, to prevent the resurgence of the virus that would have been and the otherwise inevitable further rise of the epidemiological curve. I remember the pandemic isn't over yet. In this House we must once again thank all those for whom - in my opinion - we should do even more: I am referring to health professionals at three hundred and sixty degrees, for whom we should support a further effort from a contractual and economic point of view. I say that precisely because I feel it, because over the last two years they have given so much and have followed the desires of politics, to understand, together with science, what was needed to do. I am therefore truly convinced that they still need the policy to be decided, so that the national health system can be secured. But the end of the state of emergency helps us to think and return to a normal life; we are doing so, albeit with short limitations. There's the sun out there, so we can take the mask off freely. However, prevention is still planned in some places. It is right to maintain precautions to prevent us from going back, also because the numbers continue to prove it to us. The legal deadline at the end of March does not correspond to the end of the pandemic, but we are getting there. However, we must maintain the caution that has marked us in these two very long years, which have seen things gradually improve. With regard to the debate that has taken place, it is obvious that it is now easy to say that this or that should not have been done; we have seen that, despite everything, politics has taken responsibility. And in this regard I really thank the Undersecretary Sileri, who in these two years has always been present at our side in the conversion of decrees-laws, but also in the Commissions, along with the whole Ministry, with respect to regulations that seemed at the beginning difficult, but that we have now understood. Although the memory of Italians is always, unfortunately, very short and I regret it, I hope, however, that we have memory of a regulatory passage that we have had to face. Someone, in yesterday's general discussion, quoted the Constitutional Court: well, we see the Constitutional Court, if there were any appeals, what it will answer. We have seen that the Court has consistently responded when it has been asked about the validity of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, since the structure of our Republic provides for recourse to the Constitutional Court, let there be a review also from the regulatory point of view. Of course, the Commission will do everything it can to secure the population. And we did this especially with regard to - you know - the great problems within school and education: our children really needed, first of all, to be more free and protected. We have done so, as all other countries have done, with difficulty, with responsibility, but now, slowly, we are coming out of it. The small limitations that still remain now I think are really necessary in order to finally get out of the pandemic. That's the direction of the road. We have crossed the ground and now we are only waiting for everything we have done in the last two years to develop in a more peaceful and free way. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the debate, that in some respects it has been heated, even with statements which do not really agree with either the Senate Chamber or those of the Commissions, that this decree, which we must convert because it is due to expire, is the right way out of the current situation and to understand what needs to be done if it is to be proposed again. It is a path that will have its fil rouge and that, in case, could be resumed, because we will have already understood how to act. I really thank you for the work done by all the committees that have dealt with it. In particular, I would like to thank my colleagues in the House who, by strengthening them, have raised certain issues and have improved a number of other points. For example, I come back to talk about general medical doctors. There is also a strengthening for those who are preparing to do this type of activity, with derogations that we hope will then be able to end, because we would like to return, from this point of view too, to normality. I hope - and I must say this - that, as far as the national health system is concerned, we will finally understand that these are investments in personnel. They are not costs, but they are an investment in the health of our citizens; a warning also for the next measures. Let us also take into account the following point: everything we are building at this time to get out of the pandemic, and also to have a broader view of what the National Health Service will be, without a strengthening even economic we will find it difficult to see it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u6	The rapporteur, Senator Garruti, and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2604, converting Decree-Law No 24 of 24 March 2022 into the text of the Commissions meeting, identical to that approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u8	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 24, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u9	Mr President, in thanking all my colleagues, I would point out that it is certainly not my intention to waste this House's time. I should have spoken in the general debate yesterday, but the commitments of these days have not allowed me to do so. So, I try quickly to recover during the discussion on trust. This is a decree that goes towards normality and which has the title "Superation of measures against the pandemic following the cessation of the state of emergency": it is in itself good news and we are absolutely happy about it, as we are also voting on a decree that goes in that direction. The point of my speech is that we hope not to be accused of mischievous majesty if we allow ourselves to say that an opportunity has been missed. This could have been the right opportunity, in the light of the cessation of the state of emergency, to make a picture of clear and precise measures, of precise provisions to be maintained on the subject of the pandemic. Unfortunately, there has been some chaos in certain cases. For example, on the question of masks there is some uncertainty - we can say - about the use: yes to the mask if the place of work is public, while it is recommended if the place is private, as if there were a difference and as if the virus hit on one side rather than the other; yes to the mask in the business canteens and public work, no to the masks in the restaurants; yes to the mask in a sports structure indoors like the Palaeur or the Forum of Assago, even if there is a gap, no to the mask in a stadium with 70,000 people all crushed, assembled without any distance. I mean, these are measures that leave at least some debate. It is said no to the mask for children up to six years old, but for six years up yes to the mask; on flights with Italian license we should put the mask, while on other European flights no: here too some question should be asked. In class - I'm talking about schools - the mask is maintained, but then the same children go out, go to the sports center, to the bar, play together, hug - as is right - they make all their games and the mask is not expected. In short, the logic of such choices honestly is a little 'all to understand. In some cases we can say that there are also situations at the limit of ridicule, such as - for example - what will happen on aircraft, also in the light of the choices made by the European Safety Agency. I'd say it's gonna be pretty peculiar. Minister Hope told us that however science decides: they are not political choices, but science decides. But, when a group of parents and associations sent a formal request to the Ministry to see if there is a study that highlights risks and benefits on the issue of masks imposed from the six years up, there has even arrived a written response from the Director General of the Prevention of the Ministry of Health, who said that the Ministry does not have any study. Then the question is: are certain technical choices - as the Minister calls them - daughters of science or propaganda sold as science? [[Applause]] In this chaos about using the mask, in uncertainty what does a person do? It often happens to me too: when I enter a place I wonder whether or not I have to wear it, like at the supermarket or at the airport. In uncertainty I put the mask, rightly also to avoid running into some violation of the rules or even simply because I fear that people may look at me badly. That's what kind of happens. So the question is: is this chaos the result of negligence, operational difficulties, Covid bureaucracy, as someone calls it, or is it a precise strategy to get used to the gag? These are the answers that must be given. We have always supported the choices made by the government and thank him for all the work he has done. It is not easy to deal with such situations, but it is also true that it is equally necessary for the minister responsible to give answers to the many questions that our Group has tabled in recent months to ask for explanations, light on the so-called scientific evidence, explaining also why - we are asking on this occasion, since the Secretary is also present - the whole European Union has downgraded the virus as an influence, while we continue to wear masks. We just need to know why; Explain it to us. I am not saying that the European Union is right and that we are wrong and that we are wrong. We just want answers. Perhaps - and we also say this in the light of what will happen in the autumn - it would be good to try to focus attention, as many experts have already pointed out in numerous newspapers, elderly and fragile. Those who must be protected - not only now, but also after - are the elderly and the fragile. Nevertheless, many times - both in the Chamber and in the Commissions - in dealing with the issue of fragile people we have not had all the attention to promote smart working and meet certain needs in order to protect precisely the fragility, which I think is the primary objective that the Government should pursue even from a future perspective. We are happy and happy to convert a decree for overcoming the measures against the pandemic, even if we need a lot of caution and we must be careful because the pandemic has not been defeated at all. There are some answers that have remained unanswered and we also want to understand why Italy maintains a road not exactly similar to that of other European countries, since here we are always talking about the European Union and we are said to be united and working together. From this point of view, it would perhaps be appropriate to adopt at least common strategies to combat the pandemic, adapting a little to the choices that are made elsewhere. That is our wish. It is true that we are faced with yet another vote of confidence, but we also understand that the processing times of the decrees are unfortunately very long. We would have preferred not to be trusted, but we understand that such choices are important and this fundamental decree. Therefore, as announced in the explanation of vote, our vote will be very much in favour. However, we wanted to highlight a number of observations. Let's hope we're not accused of mischievous majesty. That is our final wish. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u10	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u13	GRANATO (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, a state of emergency that is now over is being sealed by restrictions designed to preserve citizens' habit of blind and unconditional obedience to Diktat, which they have never had in health care, so that they can accept with time to see their rights transformed into concessions granted to the authority of duty. The decree-law under consideration constitutes yet another unnecessarily vexatory act against Italian citizens, put on the field by a Government that has lost the opportunity to remedy, both late and partially, the damage done with a opaque management of the pandemic, crowned by the establishment of green passes and vaccination obligations. If there had been good faith in you, today, instead of endorsing this decree, you would have apologized to the Italians and dismantled everything and would have compensated them for the losses suffered and the collateral damage from the vaccine. On the contrary, you want to make this act a release from the measures that you are going to confirm and that - otherwise - would cease with the end of the state of emergency. Beyond the many nice chats you make with your speeches, all that matters is the button you will decide to press. And, despite everything, you will press on what validates the extension of measures that have fallen everywhere in Europe, without explaining to us what we have in Italy different from the others. We continue with the obligation of masks on means of transport and in schools and with the obligation of green passes in social and health facilities, while throughout Europe we live in another reality. It is now stated that the strategy put in place by Minister Hope, recently very warmly welcomed at La Spezia, to focus on the goal zero Covid with coercion to the vaccine and the abuse of masks has totally failed. In fact, among the 35 European countries on which there is a study by the University of São Paulo in Brazil on anti-Covid measures taken in relation to the number of deaths per million inhabitants, Italy stands in third place after Portugal and the United Kingdom, which also have a large number of vaccinees, although Italy is the nation in which by far the population has been afflicted by the greatest number of restrictions, discrimination and sanctions. After two years of selective lockdown, the only result that the Italian Government has achieved was the increase in cases of depression, suicide, formative failure - we ruined a generation of students - workers left without salary, failure of companies in different strategic sectors for our economy made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. The green pass, an unnecessary measure from the point of view of health, only in Italy has taken on a heavy political connotation; it has created discrimination in the workplace, with an exclusively punitive intent, completely alien to the principles of our legal system. The basic foundations of medicine have been trampled on, such as that of natural immunity, despite which, however, are imposed cyclical doses of vaccine ever closer to the cured, as a condition to exercise some professions such as those for which the obligations were even extended to 31 December 2022. When has a vaccine ever been seen on a no longer circulating strain of the virus that is required to immunize compared to more up-to-date variants of the same virus? Yet this happens and the health professional who does not fold is left at home without salary. The result is that every month one hundred doctors leave Italy. In Germany, the lawyers examined 2,255 cases of suspected post-vaccine deaths, warned Members of Parliament against imposing vaccination obligations, raising the possibility to them of possible dolus, the case - i.e. - of those who consider the possibility of a person's death possible but accept it in order to achieve another objective. What would be the public interest in exposing entire categories to even lethal adverse effects, since it is now stated that these drugs do not prevent and do not interrupt the chain of contagions? We know that the vaccination obligation is unjustified in the case of medicines that do not immunise in the light of the Constitution, Article 32, third paragraph, of the Charter of Nice, of the Oviedo Convention, of the Nuremberg Code. You can no longer tell us the fairy tale that these drugs would not be experimental just because they were administered to 5 billion people worldwide, because it is not the number of doses during a mass campaign that completes a test cycle, but it is the randomized double check method used on a reasonable sample and for a reasonable time, which for this type of medication is no less than ten years. It now nails you, compared to your propaganda narration repeated to the exhaustion, which describes effective and safe drugs, the annual report made by BioNTech on 30 March last to the US market security agency, which reports precisely the warning that these products may not have the requirements in terms of safety and effectiveness to obtain the definitive approval of the European regulators British and US. But it's curious how, while investors are annually given this information, the lawyers of the association "Human Rights Office" AIFA denied access to it, because these relationships would not be of public use and would even be covered by military secrecy. This decree ratified the principle that there may be categories of expendable persons to whom it is permissible to extort consent to the administration of experimental drugs under the blackmail of suspension, demise, segregation, without information because it is covered by military secrecy. How can it be imagined that information that is given to the markets is denied to the recipients of the treatment, on the pretext that these are not of public interest and would even be covered by military secrecy? Are we talking drugs or something? To these disconcerting situations is added that of the recent three-month extension of the expiry date of 13 million doses of Pfizer, resulting from an investigation aired by the transmission "Out of the choir" and we know that this is not the first time that this happens. The huge number of adverse events to these drugs, according to EudraVigilance, is around 4 million in the countries of the European Union, with more than 40,000 deaths and a significant increase in mortality for other causes during the last year in the age group between fifteen and forty-four years, certified by Euromomo. Since every legislative act of the speculative maneuver of malasanity, applied to the distribution of these drugs, cannot fail to imply responsibilities - and the criminal shields to the vaccinated doctors are not enough - there are now orders of the doctors in ferment and the presidents ask the government for cover in exchange for the obedience demonstrated, in contempt for professional ethics, for having sanctioned colleagues who have adopted the principle of precaution in the administration of these drugs. Here comes to the rescue another devious maneuver from the last Council of Europe of 25-26 March, of which President Draghi was careful to give information to the Chambers. It would entrust the WHO with the joint management of the pandemics for the acceding States. Of course we all know that the first private lender of the WHO is a well-known philanthropist who manifests divinatory gifts for pandemics, being able to anticipate its advent with declarations made months, if not years before, and investing in mass vaccination campaigns money that he gets from various countries, including Italy. The model that the European States would like to adopt in order to promote the speculation of pharmaceuticals would be the same as applying to public services: to externalize decisions and, therefore, the responsibilities of global pandemic health governance to a supranational body, the WHO precisely, organization financed primarily by private individuals in conflict of interests in the pharmaceutical industry. This is the last brilliant finding of the various European governments, under the control of international financial oligarchies, in order to be able to free the political class and technicians from uncomfortable decisions, but left in the hands of supranational bureaucrats. This would be yet another decision-making process that was expropriated to the control of the national courts, presented as a salvific act necessary to prevent future health crises, which could instead be planned unpunished in those places on behalf of the stakeholders in the most complete impunity. If it were not that this last pandemic, seen with today's eyes, could be configured rather as the product of a programmed malasanity than as an exceptional and random event, we could also be led to believe in it. But the statements that announce others after this pandemic, starting next autumn, by Cassandre and Laocoon on duty, at least as far as I am concerned, raise any remaining doubt of good faith. Once you can deceive a people, taking it by surprise; the second time you can deceive only those who want to be deceived. Our task is to open our eyes to Italians and to declare our "no" to this and to future measures that impose restrictions on the freedom and constitutional rights of citizens, with similar medical pretexts, wary of the Government from adhering to any supranational management of future pandemics, whose control must strictly remain in our country and must be managed in total transparency, with certain and identifiable responsibilities from the national jurisdiction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u16	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, the future is always in the hands of those who know how to anticipate it, predict it and prevent it. Moving from the obligations of DPCM and decrees to recommendations and sharing with citizens and citizens is the real change of pace to get to the real possibility of endemic SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is and has not been invented by anyone. If the emergency ends, not only does the presence and potential of the virus disappear, with a big difference: at first he commanded, while now we have the real possibility to control it. And this is so true that the decree-law in conversion exceeds the state of emergency, but, in returning to normal, makes structural decisions. I quote Articles 1 and 2, in which we continue to foresee the possibility of issuing orders, until December. In Article 2, out of the functions of the extraordinary commissioner, General Son, who we never tire of thanking for his vaccination campaign, a new structure is established, and these functions will be assumed by the Ministry of Health. For this reason, the vote in favour and - as a Group of Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano - we renew the confidence of the Government, because in this episode of the epidemic it was very determined and prudent at the same time, being us the country that has been hit hard by the pandemic. Then there is Article 13, which re-establishes data collection for surveillance integrated by SARS-CoV-2 and monitoring of the epidemiological situation. Even when the data is very low and the epidemic is endemic, we will need to keep this virus and the others under constant control; even those we will not invent, but it is a story of the epidemic to which we must prepare ourselves. I am very pleased that an agenda was adopted at my signature in the Commission, in which the Government is asked to provide data, which already exist, because the Higher Institute of Health already provides them, but which are legible by the population: data broken down, especially on the deaths, because in Italy there are still many, to know the comorbidity and variations, always for the principle that we must make a great alliance with the population. The more people are aware, the more we can accompany citizenship out of the epidemic. However, October is now and if we are careful, of course not obsessive, we can strangle the virus in the good season when it is less aggressive, reducing its circulation with heat, depotentially numerically at the end of summer. We cannot forget, in fact, that in the last two years traveling abroad and crowds exasperated in summer clubs have been the reservoir and roots of the virus explosions in autumn. Once again, I renew my appeal to the Government - I have done so before in this House - to increase the number of public transport, especially with the resumption in September, and to maintain the use of masks, for example at peak hours. After more than two years from the beginning of the Covid epidemic we must say thanks to Italians and Italians for the sacrifices made. But, when measures against the virus are relaxed, right now, politics must take on its responsibilities, even more so, creating a new health care that is no longer found unprepared in the face of emergencies. They resume activities with the relaxation of anti-Covid measures and it is nice for all of us to savor normality and freedom. We are in a very new phase, after more than two years of difficulty: fewer obligations and more individual responsibility. But the demand for caution for citizenship must be matched by a new phase, especially for politics. We really need to fix health care for the next few years; we need to prevent pandemics; we need to break down waiting lists; we need to build the medicine of the territories in harmony with hospitals and home care; we need to enhance the socio-health professions and their training; we need to ensure health for our fellow citizens throughout the country; we need to take care of the environment, prevention; we need to reorganise school medicine and safety in the workplace. There is so much to do and today I feel like making an appeal to the Government, to the Regions, to the organizations representing the professions: to get to work together with courage and determination. The political class has the duty to respond with commitment to right decisions and sacrifices made by Italians and Italians. There is so much to do, above all, to protect fragile workers. The House has inserted rules to the decree-law proposed by the Government, but they are not yet sufficient. And what is the first lesson of this pandemic? The protection of the other by himself, of the fragile. There is always the debate'masks no, masks yes', but it is very simple: if we are in a phase of individual responsibility, it is clear that in some places still have to be maintained. I do not understand the request to remove the masks in the schools, when we are close to the closing of the school year: it is done to be safer. It is very simple: the epidemic is transmitted if we are in a crowded place and, therefore, it is right to put the mask back on. The great lesson of this epidemic is that we are responsible for the health of others and the more the virus turns, the more it reaches an elderly person or a fragile person. Yesterday in the Commission we had a discussion on the issue of smart working. Another lesson we need to learn about the pandemic is that from this tragic experience we must draw conclusions of an innovative nature in the organization of work and, therefore, public administration must also renew itself. Smart working is an organization of innovative work; it is not true that it ensures less productivity, but also in public employment there are data that smart working can make workers and workers more productive as well as helping them to better reconcile work with the family and some pathologies with the possibility of being present at work. Finally, we need to think about Article 117 of the Constitution. We know that health protection is a matter of competing legislation, but Article 117 itself states that in the areas of concurrent legislation it is up to the Regions to have legislative power, except for the determination of the fundamental principles, reserved to the legislation of the State. I think that in the months that separate us from the end of the parliamentary term we must make a mature reflection on this issue and exercise, as national legislators, the function of deciding the fundamental principles; otherwise we risk strongly that territorial inequalities are accentuated. Therefore, awareness of the tragic nature of pandemics and syndemia must be highlighted in health care. It is precisely the theme of awareness that requires a path of maturation of all of us, because health care is the absolute priority of the country. What had to happen, more than a pandemic of this kind, to become aware that without health care there are no economy and no work? Of course there is also war now, but it must not distract us from the commitments we have made with the population on the need to fix health care, which is the country's top priority. Particularly in the coming months it will be necessary to establish, among the general criteria, that of the economic and financial sustainability of the health system. The Italian Parliament must be the protagonist of this process, alongside citizenship and in synergy with the Government and the Regions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u19	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, today is an important occasion: the fiftieth vote of confidence that the Italian Parliament is holding with this Executive. The government of the best, or supposedly such, that in reality is the Government of the Renitent, at least to the parliamentary debate, proposes to us the fiftieth vote of confidence on an absolutely important and substantial subject, what is the one that faces the so-called decree-law reopenings. We have always, in the course of the pandemic, for countless times, put our attention to the need to review health standards and to put an end to restrictive measures. Years have passed since the beginning of the pandemic, but the posture - as President Draghi would say - is always the same. This measure continues to provide restrictive measures and neglects important health measures that are now absolutely obvious to everyone except the Government. With regard to restrictive measures, for example Article 1, it is even expected that civil protection orders may be issued again until 31 December, at the reasoned request of the competent administrative authorities, communicated to the Chambers and, therefore, without the knowledge of the institutions. This is really serious and paradoxical, because it is now clear that we have full ears of these measures. Another argument is the one correctly illustrated - with narrow teeth, my colleague Romeo, I regret it and I hope that his teeth will not suffer, even if continuing to have to do interventions with tight teeth puts the structure of his teeth at risk - compared to the blessed masks. If in fact, Mr President of the 12th The Commission, the head of the Ministry's prevention, says that it has no scientific evidence capable of supporting the need for the use of masks, then the answer to my colleague Romeo I do it: it is clear that we want to continue with the media gag and also the symbolic gag, because the world moves on symbols and the mask begins to become a symbol. There are still restrictive measures to the detriment of health care which you know now, ladies and gentlemen: these are the ones we have repeated a thousand times, namely home therapies, territorial health and the Covid protocol for hospitals as well. Even today there is no specific Covid protocol for hospital admissions, and I do not say for home therapies where still exists the famous Tachipirina protocol and vigilant expectation. We need the new vaccine. My colleague Mr Sileri, I appreciate your presence and your constancy and I also hope that your teeth will remain, but I think it has become paradoxical that even in the scientific community everyone wonders about the need for a new vaccine and the inopportunity to call to the fourth dose, since in October we will probably be forced to call to the fifth dose with the new vaccine. I hope that the new vaccine will take account of the variations. Someone should also explain to us, poor Members of Parliament, to the knowledge of which the measures continue to be adopted, what the ten vaccines per head that Europe has bought from the large producers who make exorbitant budgets have been used for. Monitoring and prophylaxis capacity should be increased. Compared to this point, the opinion of the 12th The Commission has a note which I appreciated, although it is obviously not enough to get us to vote on that opinion. Measures on school should be taken. Rather than forcing the kids to gag - fortunately at least over six years - for hours and hours, with absolutely minimal expense compared to what you have made for the many investments in the school - I can think of one that I leave to you to guess, because I don't want to persevere and continue to talk about the usual affair of wheelchairs - you should provide for the mechanical ventilation of the classrooms, as the virus in September and October will recover, along with that flu. Ventilation has been shown to reduce 80% of the transmissibility, which the vaccine cannot guarantee. In fact, the vaccine has been able to guarantee fewer admissions to intensive care and deaths - probably, even if we talk about this - but it has not covered compared to the communicability of the virus. Providing ventilation of classrooms, which are still chicken classes, would be absolutely important to reduce the transmissibility by more than 80%, as has been shown. [[Applause]] What is the record of the reopenings? I have heard the speeches of my fellow Members and today we are ready to take stock of the dramatic period that Italy has gone through. Well, budgets are soon made, my colleague Mr Sileri: we have 20 million health benefits suspended, a huge amount of healthcare denied; one in three Italians has been waiting for a health benefit and has probably been waiting for it for months, if not for years. The regions are exhausted. Colleagues, do you know how much the deficit of the Regions compared to the Covid expenditures anticipated by them with their own budgets? We are talking about 8.5 billion euros: so much the amount advanced by the Regions compared to Covid expenses, only in a small part reimbursed by the State. Covid funding amounts to about 5 billion in total over the two years; the expenditure of the Regions amounts to more than 13 billion in the same period of time. Lombardy - for example - spent 1.7 billion and 1.077 billion in 2022 in 2021; Lazio spent 870 million in 2021 and 840 million in 2022, which are 80% expenditure on the regional budget. Do you understand what it means with respect to suspended benefits and waiting lists if the Regions are exhausted from the financial point of view, because the state has done ATMs with regional budgets and does not commit to return the anticipated expenses with the Covid? What awaits us is dramatic compared to this picture. The most dramatic budget of this period, however, ladies and gentlemen - and I would like to say to my colleague Mr Boldrini that the direction of the road is absolutely not this - that the government has seen after the whole pandemic period, is the greatest reduction in gross domestic product compared to the Western economies, as a result of the restrictive measures taken which also prevent the recovery of pre-Covid levels. Today "Il Sole 24Ore" headlines: Italy at the last place for the recovery of pre-Covid levels of GDP. But above all - truly dramatic - it is that we still record the greatest number of deaths today compared to the Covid epidemic. On this you can discern what you want; you can say everything and more, but all the magazines and the scientific community accredit Italy to the top of the rankings for deaths from Covid. Stop, then, saying that the direction of march is the right one, because, if this is the direction of march, obviously take Italy to beat. I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much and I would like to address my colleagues in the majority, including the rapporteurs: why has Italy remained the last European nation not to set up a Commission of Inquiry? For what reason? What are you afraid of? Italy has had committees of inquiry in all the legislatures except this and the previous one: why do you not want to set up a church commission that goes to see what happened in our national health system with the emergency Covid? You'll have to tell us, and you'll have to explain it especially to the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u22	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, as Senator of Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali, I am voting in favour of this draft law. The direction of travel is the right one. The decree-law that we are about to convert marks the overcoming of the most dramatic phase that our country experienced with the emergency Covid-19. There are over 165,000 victims in two years. We often forget, in the polemics, in the interventions, the cost of the pandemic: more than 165,000 victims. We have experienced dramatic moments that we will never forget again. It is right to be optimistic, colleagues and colleagues, but - be careful - the coronavirus has not disappeared: there are 967,000 people currently infected and hospitals still host patients from Covid-19. Of course, we must look to the future with more optimism. It is not a simple influence that circulates and we must not consider it to be such. The summer heat will help us, but we have to be prepared for autumn, when the temperatures drop and we have to be ready to intervene, if the contagion curve goes up. With the approval of this provision we decree the cessation of the state of emergency. The restrictions are lightened and there is a shift from emergency to ordinary management. So we are at a new stage. The Scientific Technical Committee has fallen and the super greenpass has already disappeared almost everywhere for a few weeks. We have also noticed, here in the Senate, that at the entrance we no longer have to present the green card. The masks are no longer mandatory in different situations, in others they are still necessary. I have listened to the speeches that preceded me on this situation, which is certainly not easy to handle, but from here I think that there is a gag strategy. On the contrary, I was impressed by Mr Granato's intervention and I did not listen to any of the speakers who later stressed the seriousness of his statements, when he said that 40,000 people in Europe died from vaccines. No, the vaccines saved our lives, thousands of lives. Mr Grenato's alarm is caused. I'm 28 months in the state of emergency. General Son has also gone away, but another has been promoted as director of the unit for the completion of the vaccination campaign and for the adoption of other measures of contrast to the pandemic. I'll talk about the vaccination campaign later. This in conversion, therefore, is a sort of decree-bridge law that helps to move from an emergency situation to an ordinary situation, which takes into account the fact that the virus still circulates and also in a very significant way. The transmission index is still dual-digit and, therefore, a high level of attention needs to be maintained. If after two years we can say that the worst is finally behind us, we owe it to several factors: meanwhile we owe it to the results obtained from the vaccination campaign, which has allowed to have a vaccination rate among the highest at international level and to bend the curve of the contagions in our country. More than 135 million doses of Covid vaccine have been administered so far. Secondly, if we are leaving the pandemic, it is also due to the effectiveness of the many legislative measures adopted by our Government and Parliament. The direction of travel was the right one. Without a solution of continuity, in all this long period, the measures taken have allowed to respond and adapt, from time to time, the legislation to vary the trend of the contagion from Covid-19. Indeed, legislative activity has had to bend and adapt to an unpredictable and not even well-known trend. If we are coming out of the emergency, then it is due to the sense of responsibility of practically all Italians. It is precisely because of the high percentage of vaccinations that we have had positive effects on hospitalizations and intensive therapies. If today it is possible to discuss a decree restarts is because more than 90 percent of Italians have vaccinated themselves. It is to be appreciated the choice of progressiveness in the reopening, both in the disposal of the masks, and also for the termination of the restrictions measures, as well as for the use of the green pass. New variations are possible in the autumn, so it is right to be careful. Before concluding, however, I would like to return to the subject of the vaccination campaign. Gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are a virtuous example at international level for the administration of the first three doses, but we have a serious problem for the fourth doses to be administered to the brittle over sixty years old, to the elderly and to those who are guests in residential garrisons for the elderly. The campaign is proceeding slowly. It responds only 10% of the called: less than 4 percent in Calabria, Sicily, Sardinia, Basilicata and Puglia; below 10 percent in Molise, Marche, Campania and Abruzzo. We are not there, because, as the president of the Higher Health Council Franco Locatelli said in an interview the other day, the virus reorganizes itself with new variations. If further doses are needed in the autumn and for which categories, this will be seen in the coming months. Free yes, but with caution, hoping to leave this emergency behind us forever. The pandemic has increased economic and social inequalities. We have repeatedly intervened to support families and businesses. We are not yet, while the economic crisis caused by the war in Ukraine is on the horizon, with which we are already beginning to deal. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government by the Senators of the Mixed-Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u25	IORI (PD). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, our country is emerging from one of the worst post-war crises. With the decree-law to our examination we begin to conclude the page of the emergency measures and we prepare the desired return to normality, after two very long years that have marked the life of all of us. We have experienced social and relational transformations, isolation, fears, mourning and insecurities, which have deeply questioned our lives and, above all, have marked the emotional life of our children in the phase of isolation and lockdown, making everyone understand the importance of presence at school, openness and relationships. Now, after this terrible phase, in the first place we must thank in particular all the health workers, who in these very long months have given an extraordinary proof of spirit of service, even at the risk of their lives. To them goes our deepest gratitude and the hope that such thanks can be translated into further investments and interventions of real and concrete support to the work rendered to the country by a sector that is still in great difficulty, starting from the lack of trained staff, problem for which some measures have already been adopted. I am thinking of the increase in specialization grants, for example, although they are still insufficient to provide the necessary answers. For this return to normality we must thank the valuable work carried out by the Government, by Commissioner Figiuolo, by the Scientific Technical Committee. And we must also thank the citizens for their great sense of responsibility, not only by adhering massively to the vaccination campaign, but also by responding rigorously to health security measures, from green passes to masks, from time to time measures, in relation to the evolution of the pandemic. They have done so despite the fact that there have been those who have constantly worked to discredit these common sense measures in the name of an alleged individual freedom that seems to ignore the collective good. Minister Hope has always kept in the foreground the awareness that individual freedoms inevitably lie together with the general interest of the community. It has not been a simple balance, but it has had the merit of standing firmly within the constitutional groove which provides for an indissoluble link between the inviolable individual rights and the unavoidable duties that every citizen has towards others. Rights and duties lie together in a mature democracy, because freedom is not a concept without limits but is based on respect for the other, solidarity, civil coexistence and the protection of the most fragile. All rights have the same dignity. [[Applause]] Italian citizens have shown themselves to be a great community, capable of solidarity and respect, in the unprecedented definition dictated by the emergence of a balance between individual and collective rights. Now let's go to normal, thanks to the process of coexistence with the virus, but we are not approving a "free all", let's be clear: it would be wrong and dangerous this message, because the virus is still circulating and if today we are going to look to the future, unfortunately we cannot be sure that this crisis has ended. We still need to be careful and at the same time work to strengthen our health system and make it more ready to face other new challenges that may come. Today we are in a position to have fewer deaths, less serious patients and to be able above all to resume to cure the so-called suspended from the right to care, who are waiting for answers to their various pathologies, unfortunately neglected in the phase of the pandemic emergency. Trust, hope and prudence must guide us all together in this passage, in this calculated risk strategy that the Dragon Government has promoted without hesitation and with success, based on an approach always attentive to the evolution of the pandemic. For example, all measures have been gradually reduced and limited, except for health and social health facilities; it remains the vaccination obligation until 15 June and for those who work in care facilities until the end of the year. It is a shared choice, because we believe it is a priority to defend the health of the most fragile, and social and health structures must be safe places. Starting to work for the future of the health system is a priority for the country and needs to be rethought because it has certainly supported the devastating impact of the Tsunami Covid, but it has also shown deep limits that question us and that impose new answers. The PNRR will now be essential for the implementation of this renewal programme, but it will not be enough on its own. Now that the pandemic has made it clear to everyone, it would be very serious not to remedy it. It is clear that a fragile health system not only has a profound impact on people's health, but also widens inequalities, has negative effects on economic growth, undermines citizens' confidence in the institutions. We therefore need health which is more integrated with social policies, invests in training and management of human resources and pays more attention to fragile workers who live in a more difficult everyday life, who have complex pathologies and who are in conditions of disability, so that they can reconcile the condition of life with the right to work. [[Applause]] The country cannot wait for other pandemics to understand that the health system must necessarily be affected by a profound reform that brings the person back to the center, moving quickly from the centrality of hospital care to territorial health. To this end, excessive use of hospital care, although necessary, should therefore be limited to when - precisely - it is necessary; the number of hospitalizations should be reduced by offering them more qualified services; a territorial network must be promoted which integrates the health, social and social care provision. I believe that the dimensions of treatment and care, that is, medical care and care in the human and relational sense, are indissolubly linked. This is the way to go now to ensure that all citizens across the country have uniform standards. Let us not forget that in some areas of the country only the family remains to take responsibility for the unsatisfied social and health needs due to the deficiencies and inefficiencies of the health and social services network. Now to build a new model we need an innovative vision that can count on the strengthening of research, training and organization and telemedicine to support a functioning and effective system of territorial and home care. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour, recalling that science must guide us in investing in the well-being of people, but the protection of fragility and the defence of the right to health are our first ethical and political duty and the guarantee of a genuine democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u28	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to give an appropriate title to the law of conversion of this decree-law, I would think of it as an end to the state of emergency. We are faced with the much desired moment in which the word is put an end to some limitations to personal freedoms (painful, but necessary) and some obligations imposed (painful, but necessary). A new phase opens in the country, which must lead us to normality, without neglecting the pitfalls and dangers that are still in place. If we have arrived at this moment, the merit is first of all the sense of responsibility of the Italians who, at a delicate and complicated time, understood the importance of limiting in some essential freedoms and adapting to the indications of the Government that were not capotic, but suggested by the scientific world. We must do this with great satisfaction, but we must not forget that we are not completely out of the pandemic. Probably, what is happening in the heart of Europe (i.e. the conflict between Russia and Ukraine) has led the media and talk shows to deal with this issue and not to stress what is happening with regard to the pandemic. I would like to remind you that there were still about 50,000 infected and 148 victims yesterday. So surely the worst is behind us, but we cannot tell ourselves completely free from the risk of infection and the risk of the disease. Then the state of emergency ends and, with it, the tasks of the extraordinary commissioner, General Figillo, that we take the opportunity to thank once again for the great incisiveness with which he carried out the vaccination campaign that made Italy a model, a lighthouse, a guide recognized by the whole of Europe. [[Applause]] It is precisely because we are not completely out of this pandemic, however, that this decree-law replaces the work of the extraordinary commissioner with a unit for the completion of the vaccination campaign and for the adoption of the measures necessary for the pandemic until 21 December 2022. The Government has rightly given this time to check whether, by that date, we can say definitively defeated the virus and from 1 January 2023 all activities and all initiatives will be able to return to the Minister of Health. There are measures, in the decree-law at our examination, that some political forces like Forza Italia have repeatedly urged and that the Government has taken into consideration and this is one of the reasons that make the participation of Forza Italia plausible and appropriate to a Government of public health and broad understanding. There is, for example, the possibility for pharmacists, who have been properly trained, to inoculate anti-Covid vaccines and influenza vaccines; there is the authorisation to increase the staff of the Italian League for the fight against cancer and the possibility for the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, to update the protocols for the safe conduct of economic, social and productive activities and this says a lot about the need for collective measures, participation, interventions of agreement with the other territorial institutions. It is also expected to establish restrictions on travel to and from abroad. Then there are the new rules on isolation in case of positive Covid and self-surveillance in case of contacts with positives. It completely changes the rules, completely changes the protocols, which are more flexible, more dynamic, give more freedom and that's what we asked for and we got. Finally, the mask is no longer a taboo and, with the exception of the sectors of transport, sport, entertainment and especially health facilities, it is no longer mandatory, even if it is recommended - and we hope that the Italians listen to this recommendation - in the places of great aggregation, where there is a high concentration of people, but the simple fact that this mask is no longer mandatory and that therefore we are freed from slavery is a very important result. I believe that each of us has been satisfied to see stadiums and sports facilities that have returned to fill the public, which is necessary for the performance of sports activities. All this repays us for the many sacrifices we have made in these two years. There is also part of the measure which concerns the guests of residential structures who have lived - I dare say - under house arrest in these two years and who with this measure have the possibility to return to leave, even with the guarantee and with the adoption of certain protocols and certain security measures. Until 31 December 2022, for access to residential facilities and hospitals, a green certificate, a healing certificate or an antigen test is required. I believe that something more needs to be done for the people who are in health care facilities or hospitals, in order to allow that, beyond the precaution to avoid Covid-19 infection, they do not suffer from loneliness and enormous detachment from family members; something has been done in this provision, but it can certainly be done more. The opening to an almost normal life leads us to say that now it is necessary to return to take care of all those surgeries that have been suspended or postponed because the health facilities were engaged in dealing with the epidemic. I am referring to oncology, I am referring to cases of major and serious surgery, which can now be carried out again with the normality and timeliness they need. And then finally - we asked loudly, even if we are at the end of the school year - there is the possibility of continuing school activity in presence even with some cases of infection from Covid-19, provided that both students and teaching staff use the FFP2 mask. In the health sector there is the possibility of using young graduates and the possibility of keeping health workers and medical staff in service. There are also rules for fragile civil servants; more can and must be done, but let us consider this as an important first step. I would also like to mention the increase in expenditure on the replacement of staff in school institutions and the extension of the simplification of competitions; these are all rules that lead us to a normal path. An important moment awaits us, the time of summer. In October we will take stock of the situation; if we have been responsible, if we have been careful, if we have been careful, if we have not frustrated the sacrifices made in these two years, we will probably return to a normal life. I hope that the Italians will continue to be as responsible as they have been until now. For all these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the conversion of this decree-law by Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u31	DORIA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the constructive criticism drawn up today by our Parent Company and yesterday by my previous friend Bagnai and colleagues, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on the conversion into law of the reopening decree-law, in order to finally celebrate the end of the state of emergency. It is not a controversy for me, but to be honest, in my dual capacity as a doctor and a Member of Parliament, I would like to stress that today we are converting a decree-law into law that I could call decoction, because it bears within it a series of rules that have already expired. To allow you to follow the logical link of my reasoning, I will quote the most salient articles and you will allow me some comments. By carefully reading the measure, one might wonder whether today the state of emergency has really ceased and whether it has ceased for a real favorable evolution of the pandemic framework or only for enchantment of the legislator, distracted by other more pressing emergencies. But our Minister of Health and the President-in-Office of the Council are respectable men and would never produce a document attesting to the cessation of the state of emergency, if that were not the case. Yet, reading the text carefully, one might wonder if, changing the order of factors, the product does not change, recalling the famous phrase of Tancredi in Gattopardo, where, if we want everything to remain as it is, everything needs to change. Based on the assumption that the state of emergency has ceased to date from 31 March 2022, Article 1 - which I read directly - provides that civil protection orders may be adopted, at the reasoned request of the competent administrations, with limited effectiveness until 31 December 2022, in order to adapt to the evolution of the state of the pandemic by Covid-19 the measures of contrast in the organizational, operational and logistic field, already enacted during the state of emergency. With the end of the state of emergency, which cannot be extended beyond two years, the figure of the Commissioner also lapses. In this regard, I would like to thank General Son for the professionalism and dedication with which he has been able to carry out the assigned task, from excellent soldier and expert of logistics [[Applause]] He has given us a new course in the fight against the pandemic, making us forget the tragic primrose and infamous wheelchairs. But let us return to the text, at some very smoky points. Article 2 provides, in paragraphs 1 to 8, for the establishment of a unit for the completion of the vaccination campaign and for the adoption of others, which are not better specified, measures to combat the pandemic. The structure operates until 31 December 2022, replacing the Extraordinary Commissioner, since the Director of the new unit is assigned the same old powers as the Extraordinary Commissioner. It is also provided that, from 1 January 2023, the Ministry of Health will be responsible for the active and passive functions and relationships, which, in turn, will enjoy the same powers as the Special Commissioner, providing for an ever better definition of the organizational structure of the Dicastery and the authorization to hire, from 1 October 2022, a quota of dedicated personnel. The Minister of Health, as well as the President-in-Office of the Council, are respectable men and we would therefore do them an unforgivable wrong if we advanced the doubt that this rule was intended to mitigate the prohibition, in fact, of an extension of the state of emergency not foreseen. Even in paragraph 8- bis of Article 2 it has perhaps been exaggerated to foresee the administration, at the pharmacies, of both SARS-CoV 2 vaccines and flu vaccines in adult subjects, with burdens on the caregivers, by pharmacists appropriately trained and trained for the purpose by the Higher Institute of Health. As a doctor, I must stress that vaccination is a medical act and as such should be carried out under the direct control of the health care provider, in order to manage possible complications at the time of injection, such as anafilactic shock or wandering seizures. Without wishing to diminish the role of the pharmacist, it might have been worth extending the audience of qualified subjects, involving nurses in the first place, but also dental practitioners, or - why not? - veterinary doctors, since, especially the latter, already have considerable skills and skills in treating all mammals, except our species. Article 5 is of great interest to everyone and regulates the obligation to wear FFP2 masks on means of transport. This obligation is extended to 15 June 2022 for the most common means of transport - as the law says - and is confirmed until 30 April 2022 (then already expired and decoction) for access to vehicles such as cable cars, cable cars and chairlifts. It is spontaneous to wonder what is meant by "more common" referring to public transport, and how different types of transport differ from the subject of the norm. In fact, we do not know that the cable cars operate only during the winter period, nor that the virus has the ability to discriminate between those who travel by bus or on a cable car. [[Applause]] But the Minister of Health and the President-in-Office of the Council, who are respectable men, would never have enacted a decree-law without scientific bases, but we find it difficult to find it in the Order of the Ministry of Health of 28 April 2022. So, some questions arise spontaneously: why is there no obligation for the mask throughout Europe? Are Italians more realistic than the king? Is scientific literature agreed on the real filtering effectiveness of the mask compared to the infinitesimal size of SARS-CoV-2 virus? Paragraph 1 of Article 5 confirms the obligation to wear the type FFP2 devices until 30 April 2022, therefore already expired also, for the shows and sporting events that take place outdoors and until 15 June 2022 for the same events that take place indoors. For a long time it has been documented how the possibility of infection in the open air is minimal; therefore, it is difficult to find a rational one at their use. Equally irrational and not supported by scientific data is the obligation to use masks during the lesson time part of students and teachers of the first and second grade primary and secondary schools, as indicated in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 9. Applause goes to Matteo Salvini, who, on Monday, launched an appeal to change this unnecessarily oppressive rule, which infests on children and young people already strongly tested by the pandemic events, which have compromised any form of socialization, with the well-known psychosocial repercussions that this has brought and still entails. [[Applause]] Article 6, paragraph 1, extends until 31 December 2022 the current measures regulating the temporary exits of guests from residential health and social-health facilities, allowed only to guests with the Covid-19 green certifications, which can be obtained following vaccination, certified healing or after a negative rapid antigen test carried out in the last 48 hours or a molecular test in the last seventy-two. Nothing has changed since the time when the state of emergency existed, but the Minister of Health and the President of the Council are respectable men and would never have enacted a decree-law to cease the state of emergency if this had not actually been concluded. Despite this, some doubt, in the light of these articles, still remains. Article 7-a specifies the duration of validity of the green certificate following a vaccination cycle. Here there is a real diatribe on the scientificity of the vaccination obligation as set out in Italy, where there are thousands of cases attested to symptomatic reinfection even serious in subjects who had completed the vaccination cycle even with the third dose, not to mention the so-called novax, which by choice and conviction did not want to undergo vaccination, going to suffer the suspension from the work and its remuneration, except to see today recognized their reasons by the regional administrative courts and obtaining the payment of emoluments and attorneys, with obvious damage to the treasury, as well as in contempt of the right to work sanctioned by the Constitution. I have only mentioned a few of the articles in the re-opening decree-law that we are about to convert into law to stimulate a certain critical spirit which has been appearing in this House for some time now. Then, in the eternal conflict between reason and feeling, interest and uprightness, it can be seen that sometimes, although we can go to heaven in a carriage, we choose to go to hell on foot. I would therefore like to conclude the speech by stressing that, despite the concerns raised, the work of the Minister of Health and the President of the Council, who are respectable people, in the full awareness of being going through the dark times of a tragic global crisis, the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione intends to give this Government once again a thoughtful confidence, declaring the vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u34	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we can finally say that, in the long and winding course of the struggle and the fight against the pandemic, we have reached a radical turning point. Nevertheless, the pandemic has not been eradicated or disappeared. At this moment it is under control and certainly its management is less complex and allows to look with different spirit and perspectives, more optimistic and favorable, both to the present and to the near future. However, we cannot and absolutely must not forget what has happened in the long and difficult acute phase of the pandemic, the many mourning, the social and economic upheavals, the many personal and family dramas. Today, as I said, we still have several dozen deaths every day, which for almost all are the most fragile people, the elderly and those who have concomitant pathologies. It is our moral duty and an inalienable right of these same people to protect their health and to preserve them as much as possible from the many pains and sufferings that already surround their lives. The measure that we are going to adopt today contains urgent provisions for overcoming the measures taken previously to combat the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic. As we all know, the state of emergency ceased on 31 March. Obviously, as the Movimento 5 Stars firmly affirmed, it was indispensable to be part of a management so to speak ordinary and to implement in a rapid and consequential way a series of measures and measures aimed at protecting always and in the first place the health of the individual and of the community, allowing in the same way a almost complete return to the normality of our country. Mr President, I would like to say and reiterate strongly that the management of this new phase, with the strong drive to loosen the restrictions, does not mean "free all." Everything that will happen in the near future will depend largely on us, on our personal behavior, on the maintenance of protective measures, where necessary, and on our way of living everyday life. [[Applause]] It is fundamental to keep the attention high and to measure the thickness of the measures taken always to the course of the epidemic curve. It is also necessary to assess the long-term consequences on health after Covid-19, the so-called long-Covid; now scientifically demonstrated in its definition and clinical expressions. It is often all the more challenging and disabling the greater the clinical manifestations of the acute phase. In order to better coordinate the interventions and monitor these subjects in order to facilitate their psychophysical recovery it is indispensable in my opinion to identify structures, the post-Covid centers, that are polyspecialistic units, in which they operate different professionalism that evaluate the patient after the disease in its entirety. Not lowering the guard against the Covid also means paying more attention and organization to such structures. The Movimento 5 Stars presented a bill on the establishment and presence in each ASL of a center that operates in this sense. Unfortunately, however, as is often the case, it lies, among many other measures, in the 12th Commission. I believe that if we really want to engage everyone, and not just in words, to improve the care and health of citizens, victims of the most demanding expressions of Covid and manage its problems after the acute phase, the realization of these centres is fundamental, as many scientists suggest. On these, as on other critical issues, the Movimento 5 Stars is always there. Next, then, decisively with the reopenings and with the return to such desired normality. [[Applause]] , to an indispensable need for sociality and a real and gradual economic recovery, even if in the latter case, unfortunately, the war in Ukraine is affecting once again in a negative direction, slowing it down in a clear way. The virus, despite the infection, is less virulent, the number of admissions has fallen sharply, but in my opinion prudence is indispensable and follow the guidelines outlined by science and scientific organisms. Propaganda or speculation must not be made, for example, about the non-use of masks in indoors or in confined spaces, where, on the contrary, the contagion is much easier. We have already heard about the unnecessary use of masks or reopenings previously uncontrolled by the same people and political forces even during the most critical phase of the pandemic, as if deliberately at that moment we ignored the severity of the emerging phase that was being experienced and the sad bulletin of victims and criticalities present in our hospitals or our territories. In that historical moment it must be said that these inappropriate and dangerous statements could simply increase social tension. Health is not speculated and speeches are not made without any scientific basis. As I said, we will achieve full normality gradually, and the restrictions must be phased out, as the other European countries have done and are doing. None of us can certainly go back; the positive evolution of this pandemic will depend heavily on our behaviour and will be directly proportional to our attention and our sense of responsibility. As our President Conte has repeatedly said, the Movimento 5 Stars has put important social and economic issues at the centre of the political agenda and has always stood up to defend the most difficult, fragile and economically weaker citizens of those who have suffered the most all the serious direct and indirect consequences of the pandemic before, and of the war in Ukraine later. In the crises, they are always the most fragile, from all points of view. In February, 15% of Italian households and businesses failed to pay their bills. Themes such as minimum wages, contract renewals, energy transition - just to name a few - must be at the heart of our political debate and must not only be discussed, but fully implemented. The right balance must be found between health security, recovery and global development. [[Applause]] The National Recovery and Resilience Plan is an extraordinary opportunity - which must not be missed - for the recovery of all sectors of the economy, health, the globality of life and to succeed in improving the social cohesion of our country. I shall conclude, Mr President. This measure, as mentioned above, incorporates what is strongly requested by the Movimento 5 Stars on the need for a progressive return to the ordinary of all activities after the emergency phase and the cessation, from 31 March, of the state of emergency. Therefore, the vote of our Group can only be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u36	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u37	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, the decree-law before us is not only out of time, it is just out of the social context. You are embarrassed, you are obliged to make certain clarifications, to speak of thoughtful confidence. This measure contains the toxins of a political attitude and a fanatical season that characterizes Count 2 as Dragons 1 and that you do not want to let go. How do you plan to cope with the serious staff shortages in hospitals - failings you haven't been worried about for years - by cutting off non-vaccined doctors? The vaccinated doctor can get infected and can get infected, and you keep out of work, instead, health care and people working in those areas that are healthy. You are causing damage to public health: a vaccination obligation for health, social-health and social-care workers, and in the group you also put in the operators who do not have contracts and do not have contact with patients and relatives. Yeah, even people who don't have a contract and have to be hired by interim reporting agencies, and so it's always this outside job. After all, your fanaticism leads you to condemn doctors who have healed not following the directions of the Councillor of Potenza, Roberto, that there. There are good doctors who risk not being able to exercise just because they are good doctors. And what do we mean about the dullness - of course, dullness and bad faith - that you force children and teenagers to wear masks in school? And if it's wrong, even if there's a law, I'll take off my mask just because we're having a fight in support of our boys. This mask in school must no longer be worn; enough, science is not saying anything in support of the obligatoryness of masks in closed places, classrooms, high schools, high schools or universities. If, then, there is no connection, if science doesn't say any of this, I wonder which devil you sold your soul to. I want to understand why there is no logic. Who has corrupted you culturally? I want to understand that, because it doesn't explain, there's no ratio. This is the only truth we've all understood. If you're zombies, who's keeping you up? Who has corrupted you culturally (and I hope only culturally)? Italexit strongly votes no and does not revolve around words, such as weighted trust. Take on your responsibility. This decree-law sucks and you're afraid to say it in front of the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u38	Senator Paragon, the role I play at this moment, beyond my inner thought, requires me to tell you that Senators Quaestors believe that we must keep the mask. I beg you and Senator Giarrusso to wear it. I didn't interrupt it because its time was very short, but now please comply with the rules set by Senators Quaestors. This does not prevent me from calling for a free rethink, at least for the speakers. [[Applause]] , even with an autonomous position, by those who have the right and duty to provide. [[Comments]] Connect, moderate your language to your colleagues. Senator Pirovano, we don't understand, it's useless, you just hear a noise. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u39	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2604, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 24 March 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency, avoiding assembly. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Moles is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Moles. (Senator Secretary Pisani Giuseppe makes the appeal). (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - 11:58 a.m.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2604, of conversion to law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 24 March 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 239 Majority 120 Favorables 201 Contrars 38]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 24 are therefore excluded. Colleagues, according to what has already been agreed, I suspend the session, which will resume at 16, with the discussion of the bill delegates to the Government and other provisions in the matter of entertainment. (The sitting was suspended at 12.02 p.m. and resumed at 16.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u40	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2318. The rapporteurs, Senators Catalfo and Rampi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Italy in recent decades we have seen a decrease in public investment in the entertainment sector and for the workers who are part of it. Unfortunately, this reduced attention has been translated over time into a low level of protection, remuneration and welfare, and the pandemic crisis, unfortunately, has highlighted its fragility. We still have in our eyes the peaceful and just demonstrations of the workers of the show in the main Italian squares, with their empty trunks. We felt it was our duty to give an answer to all of them which would translate into structural measures and not be used up in a short time. We did it, working very quietly. Today we take a decisive step towards a new organization of the work of the show, which recognizes its peculiarities and knows how to protect its fragility. The requests, proposals and requests received by artists, professionals and those working in the world of culture have provided essential contributions for the improvement of the text. I would like to thank the professional associations, with whom we have worked constantly, in close contact, in these months. A thank you to the representatives of the arts and crafts, to the many coordinations of workers and workers of the show of every sector, from "Actresses actors united" to "Saarte di scena". Through them, I would like to send a thought to all workers of culture and entertainment. We have not let the requests for listening and help that we received during the pandemic fall into the void and today we are taking a decisive step to guarantee the sector the support and protection that have long been invoked. The adoption of this important measure lays the foundations for genuine structural reform. The text, in fact, has been significantly modified and expanded in the course of its examination in the Commission, thanks to the fruitful cooperation between the Commission and the Committee on Culture. In this regard, I would like to thank my colleague Senator Rampi, the rapporteur, Mr Nencini and Mrs Matrisciano, the senators of the relevant Commissions, the advisers, the officials and the staff of the two Commissions, the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Labour. The purpose of the bill of delegation is to improve the regulatory framework, to rearrange and revise social shock absorbers, to introduce new protection systems for the workers of the show. It promotes and supports the professional workers of the show, recognizes the social role of workers and professionals of the show as an indispensable tool for the development of culture and instrument for the dissemination of knowledge of Italian culture and art in Europe and the world. It recognises flexibility, mobility and discontinuity as part of the entertainment professions and adapts to these conditions the safeguards for workers in the sector in order to make them effective. Among the most important results, for which I would like to thank the Commission as a whole, is the recognition of the discontinuity of work. In this sector, in fact, the working relationship is structurally discontinuous. The measure recognises the specificity of work performance in the entertainment sector, even if rendered in short intervals of time. It recognizes the importance of periods of preparation and testing, which constitute hours of work for every effect in the career of workers and performers. It establishes the national register of professionals operating in the field, the entertainment observatory, the national network system of observers, regional observers and the permanent table for the show. Recognizes the profession of agent or representative for the live performance and establishes the national register of agents for the live performance. Recognizes live clubs and establishes The INPS portal and services for the workers of the show, as well as the one-stop shop for the show. As much as the above has been entered into the contact person. With regard to work-related interventions of greater interest within the delegation, there is the important introduction of the definition of new rules on employment contracts in the sector; recognition of the specific characteristics of work and the structurally discontinuous nature of work benefits, regardless of the autonomous or subordinate qualification of the employment relationship; recognition of the daily allowance, as a separate and additional element of remuneration or remuneration, in the case of an obligation for the worker to ensure his or her availability on call or to guarantee an exclusive benefit; provision of specific regulatory and economic safeguards for intermittent employment contracts or occasional work-related benefits; provision of specific safeguards for the preparatory and instrumental activity of the event or artistic performance. There is also a further important change concerning fair compensation for the self-employed and the obligation for public administrations to pay for any self-employed performance resulting from selective bans and procedures. The work of fruitful collaboration within the Commissions gathered and the continuous confrontation with the workers and their representatives, as well as the constructive intercourse with the Ministry of Culture and with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, has allowed us in the referent to extend the protections to all the workers of the show, therefore also to those who are included in the so-called group B, introducing the compensation of discontinuity as structural and permanent compensation that recognizes the discontinuous nature of the performance of the workers of the sector, and has allowed us to define the criteria of the same recognizing among other things, as well as compensation, also the right social security protections. This is an important achievement that confirms, also from the normative point of view, that the activity of the workers of the show does not stop when the lights of the stage are turned off. In particular, due to the discontinuous nature of the work benefits: the annual maximum income limit referred to the previous year and the calendar year; the minimum effective working benefits in the calendar year; the income derived mainly from the work benefits rendered in the sector. It also provides for the determination of the criteria for calculating the daily allowance, its maximum amount on a daily basis and the maximum number of days covered by compensation and social security. This is also very important. I would like to reiterate once again in this House that we know that there has been a first funding within the budget law for a fund for discontinuity allowances. What is important for this to happen in the next budget law is that there should be a further allocation in such a way as to make it effective and structural from 2023 onwards. In Article 11 another important rule is inserted, which raises from EUR 100 to EUR 120 the maximum daily contribution amount and the calculation basis for the treatment of sickness, maternity or paternity of performing workers. I have finished my speech and I leave the floor to my colleague, Mr Rampi, with whom I have had the pleasure of pursuing this measure. I would like to thank all those who have contributed and who have really done so. It was a great team effort and I was very pleased to be able to carry it forward and to achieve this very important result together with Parliament and the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u42	I call the rapporteur, Senator Rampi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his presence. I believe that the words just spoken by the co-rapporteur, Senator Catalfo, have conveyed the climate that has gone through the months of work on this measure and that, from the point of view of our role as rapporteurs, it must be returned to the House and especially to all those colleagues and those colleagues who, being engaged in other Commissions, have not measured the path of the measure. The draft law in question stems from many parliamentary initiatives by several parliamentary colleagues of almost all - if not all - political groups both in the House and in the Senate, who since the beginning of this legislature have tried to find solutions to ensure a principle that, for us in the Commission for Public Education, cultural heritage, is fundamental and advanced. We are normally committed to promoting many initiatives and to allocating as much resources as possible, but always insufficient, dedicated to initiatives, activities and cultural assets. The measure under consideration establishes a principle that may seem obvious, but that is not the case, namely that culture is made by people who work in culture. Work in culture must therefore function and be fully guaranteed, protected, continuous and worthy of being such. It must be a job that does not have to lead people to choose whether to do it for one part of life or another because of the lack of resources to continue exercising it and the inevitable gaps that, due to its characteristics, this type of work presents. That's the point. Unlike all others, this work is sometimes suspended but not due to lack of activity or demand, but because it is so. The moment that we see on stage is only a small part of the work in this sector, which provides first a preparation and moments of concentration, deepening and enrichment. Starting from many legislative initiatives of many parliamentarians, we have sought a way to ensure, in a truly innovative way, by the Italian State, a continuity in discontinuity, a form of order in the necessary disorder that is the basis of creativity. In fact, creativity needs elements of disorder, movement and discontinuity. This is innovation. The measure (the Members who have followed it specifically know this) actually has very far origins, since it was born perhaps twelve years ago, but certainly nine years ago when the two branches of Parliament were engaged in the examination of another measure that was then voted on in 2017. At the time we worked with my colleagues Verducci and Montevecchi: I was in the other branch of Parliament and we knew each other precisely to try to arrive at a measure that already had, in the criteria of delegation, some of these vocations. We've come a long way since then. This measure contains important results. I am thinking, for example, of the subject of observers, who are all the children of the work of a colleague from the other branch of Parliament, Mr Carbonaro, who has devoted an important part of his parliamentary activity in this parliamentary term to this issue and of which we have treasured. I believe that this is a virtuous way of proceeding of Italian bicameralism. Then there is the fundamental theme, which I think will be discussed more by my colleague, Mrs Montevecchi, of the live clubs, which is very close to my heart. Here too we have tried many times to reason with them on the full recognition of their function as spaces of culture, perhaps not as traditional as others (although they are now widely traditional). Of course, the theatre has more than 2,500 years of history, but, as I happened to say in one of these initiatives, the live club has always been there, because maybe the first live club there was when men found themselves around a fire and started singing songs to spend the night and not give in to fear. This is the origin of the aggregation that is created by music and being around it. We are dealing with this, that is, with what is fundamental to human beings and to be democracy. In order to ensure this, we need to ensure that legal initiatives are in place. We started from parliamentary initiatives and then there was an initiative of the government that took advantage of it. There has been a very important and significant exchange between the two chambers, between Parliament and the Government and between Parliament and so many voices outside Parliament, which have been heard, the rapporteur has mentioned them. I remember that, as speakers, we also gathered the initiative of a "parliament of artists" born at the Piccolo Teatro in Milan, that precisely during the pandemic had done a truly parliamentary work to contribute to this initiative of law and in this measure there is a piece of that work. The pandemic exploded something that we all knew and made it clear that this fragile and so discontinuous sector, if something happens that moves the balance that is already precarious, is likely to collapse. The governments and ministers who managed the pandemic, including Senator Catalfo, who is sitting next to me, have tried in every way - we felt on those evenings - to invent something to help these people quickly, urgently and innovatively, so as not to lose them first of all to work, to ensure that their professions did not go out of business. On that occasion we invented measures and understood how fragile the mechanism is, but also how likely, if a virtuous flywheel is created, this system can stand alone. It is enough to think of everything that generates, in cultural, democratic and economic terms, the work of these people, these women and these men, which produces revenue in the coffers of the State, among other things with forms of redistribution between those who earn much and those who earn little, because when we think of this sector we all think of some thirty known names - personally I had the honour of working with some of them, like Roberto Vecchioni and Eugenio Finardi - who are certainly people who will not need this provision, but for example their musicians, their technicians, the people who realize their stages yes, and without those people do not exist either. There is therefore a redistribution mechanism that ensures that the income of one can generate cover for the unworked periods of the other. I believe that this is a good way of doing politics, of working in Parliament, of getting to a text and also of getting to grips with it. We have also sometimes had some friction on some details, but there is no problem. The substance is that today we are delivering to this House a very shared outcome in the Commission, although some political force is not yet fully convinced. This is perhaps due to the fact that we have not been able to really include everyone in these measures yet, but perhaps at the end of this general debate and after the explanations of vote we will also be able to take another small step forward. That would be a good signal, because this measure must be approved by this House and sent to the House, it must start its delegation process and it must arrive by the end of this year at having delegations initiated and an economic cover in the next budget law that will really enable the mechanism to work. This becomes a sacred commitment as this House is sacred, which Parliament, with the votes that it will receive today, will also present in the budget law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u44	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Lucia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u45	Mr President, the two rapporteurs stressed the complexity of the work carried out on this draft law. In fact, it has been very challenging for all of us to work on this law delegation to the Government for the reordering of the provisions of the law on entertainment and for the reordering and revision of the instruments of support in favor of the workers of the sector. I wanted to spell out the title in full, so that the work we have done is clear; it is a difficult and complex subject, which is particularly close to my heart and which I have tried to deal with in the last few months with a just and adequate spirit. It is for this reason that I thank not only the two rapporteurs, whom I have seen extremely engaged in the final formulation, but also the two full Commissions, who have been very busy in different and many aspects, because the work - as you will then be aware - is extremely extensive and embraces many subjects all together; being able to create such a complex amalgam has certainly not been easy. What we approve today has been defined by prestigious industry operators as a small revolution, a great achievement for all workers and workers in the entertainment world. I would add that we get a real recognition of their social role, which gives prestige to our country. I hope that this small revolution will move quickly, as Mr Rampi said just now, and that the House will also be able to see the light as soon as possible, because we need it. In these months of work we have understood that this is an area that called for the approval of such a rule; and we have responded to this cry, to this umpteenth SOS that came from this sector. [[Applause]] I very quickly explain to you the strengths of this delegation to the Government, starting with the reopening of the laws and regulations in force in the field of entertainment. Then there is the reorganization and revision of the shock absorbers and allowances, for the introduction of a discontinuity allowance such as structural and permanent compensation. See that in the entertainment world the word "structural" and the word "permanent" do not exist and it is probably the first time that they are inserted into a legislative norm. There is also that for employment contracts, as well as for fair compensation for self-employment. We also have the recognition of the profession as a live entertainment agent, but also the strengthening and extension of the functions of the entertainment observatory and the establishment of the permanent table for the show. The recognition of live clubs is one of the steps for which I personally am receiving more consensus, because it is a world, if not the real world of music that we live in our cities, in our villages, in small countries and that so far did not have a real recognition. In this way, we give back the right and correct dignity to the entertainment sector. Perhaps it is not easy to understand exactly the scope of what we are doing today; just think that thousands of professionals are involved in opera, music, theatre, cinema, dance and all performing arts (agents, technicians and operators in general). All those who actually give lustre to our country, who give us beauty and that allow us to breathe culture. We consider that in 2019 the entertainment world counted 327,000 workers and produced an added value of almost 16 billion euros, 1% of GDP. Also according to data on the workers of the INPS show, in 2020 (in full pandemic) the number of workers of the show with at least one day paid in the year was 261,799, with an average annual salary of 10,492 euros (we are talking about 10,000 euros). Practically a debacle from 2019 to 2020. It seems useless to me, but I would like to point out that the entertainment sector has been among those that have served the worst effect following the Covid, as emerges comparing the data of 2019 with those of 2020. The largest professional group in any case remains that of the actors, who however suffered a decline of almost 20%. In short, we are talking about people who have lost their jobs and to whom we are probably giving back today a dignity of people and workers. Allow me, however, to welcome a particular passage concerning the provisions relating to the Single Fund for Performing Arts which we have been able to incorporate into the norm. Article 13 supplements the FUS allocation criteria set out in Article 1 of Law No 63 of 1985, in order to promote gender balance. In practice, paragraph 1 provides that the decrees of departure of the Minister of Culture of contributions to the FUS take into account the additional criterion concerning the promotion of gender balance. This is probably the first time that we are talking about gender balance in compliance with the standards for the entertainment world. [[Applause]] Well, I'll tell you what actually happened. With my colleague Montevecchi we listened to the Network for Gender Equality in Performing Arts and, following the national meeting of the performers of the show, we considered it appropriate to share their requests through the formulation of the amendment that was then approved and that we find in the bill. It was a virtuous path of synergy, aimed at overcoming the particular backwardness of the Italian theatrical system, which to date has percentages of female presence in leadership and decision-making, access to the means of production and funds and visibility of work, often underestimated and underpaid, among the lowest in Europe. This passage is the testimony of how important listening is given to those who actually came to ask us for help at this difficult time. I conclude by saying that the world of the show today really has a reason to celebrate and if until a few months ago we have witnessed the "protest of the trunks" I believe that after the definitive approval, also the Chamber, of this provision, our operators of the show should go down in the square with the trumpets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, government representatives, there is no doubt that many categories of workers have paid a huge price for the pandemic, aggravated by ineffective government choices and many times without a sound scientific basis. This morning, too, we discussed it during the examination of the other measure. The debate on this issue is more topical than ever, since, unlike other European countries and in full respect of the indications coming from scientific communities, which no one questions, we are currently subject to restrictions that no government imposes abroad. It is also clear, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the categories that has suffered most in recent months has been workers and workers of the show, for whom we are probably here to decide a measure that is so necessary, but characterized by a guilty delay. In addition to the lack of concrete aid from the State during the recent pandemic, there is also a constant lack of protection for workers, belonging to a sector that - it should be said - is a decisive part of our cultural heritage. It is enough to look at the data to understand that one in five workers no longer works in the entertainment sector compared to a few months ago: they are mainly workers and workers who dealt with the organization and set-up - an invisible but nevertheless fundamental phase - of any entertainment and recreational activity. To be honest, the lack of protection is in fact well before the pandemic, because for years the last successive governments have decided to abandon the workers and workers of this precious sector. This is of course not good for those who lend their work, nor for those who are willing to invest in this sector. Until there are concrete safeguards, unfortunately, it is natural to think that there will be an even greater exodus from this area, or further difficulties, which could lead to a fall in wages and salaries, with a final fall in the sensitive issues of safety at work. The issue of safety at work is a fundamental one. I also say this because I am Vice-President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into working conditions, exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces. The lack of discipline in this field favours only precarious working conditions and although the controls prior to Expo 2015 have generated a significant decrease in the so-called white deaths in the sector now the data are becoming alarming again. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the dawn of a season of very important events, the first after the spread of the pandemic; therefore, we must be ready to secure the hundreds and thousands of workers in this sector. In short, that Italy lives also of culture is known, so we of Brothers of Italy struggle to understand how the Governments driven by the 5 Star Movement first and the so-called Government of the best then, even though with a vast majority, have neglected these problems until today. Taking up the punctual words of our President Giorgia Meloni, we are here to make a serious and constructive opposition; I would also like to stress that we are not the party of the no, as someone wants to paint us. However, on this very important issue too, our demands, especially our proposals and our amendments, have remained as always unheard of. It is therefore with regret for the umpteenth missed opportunity that we of Brothers of Italy will abstain on the measure under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u48	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, allow me to express, in addition to the satisfaction, also the pride of being able to accompany the House's examination of the results of months of work carried out in synergy with colleagues from the 7th Commission. In this connection, I would also like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, Mr Rampi and Mrs Catalfo, as well as the President of the 11th The Commission, Mrs Matrisciano, and the President of the 7th Commission, Mrs Nencini. The collaboration was truly extraordinary The synthesis of different experiences and contributions between the various political forces has been translated into a text that finally leads us to recognize the specificity of those who work in the cultural field and in particular in the show, after two years of pandemic and a crisis that has produced a dispersion of unprecedented technical and artistic personnel, in a galaxy of workers and workers without certainties, one fifth of which, as has been reminded by the previous colleague, has abandoned this sector, which in 2019 cub about 1.5 billion euros. After the two worst years ever, in short, stronger than ever is the need for the delegation that we give to the Government for an overall reorganization of the provisions of the law in the matter of entertainment. The main element of novelty compared to the past, which represents a genuine change of pace in today's legislative production, concerns the recognition of the very nature of the creative professions, where the times of preparation, training and study are to be considered to all effects integral parts of the actual working time, because they are natural and indispensable to the realization of the professional mission, that is, the staging of the show, of whatever nature it is. The measure under consideration therefore innovates the paradigm with which we have been related so far with cultural and creative enterprises, favoring a radical change of course in an area that has historically been regulated little and badly, through fragmentary measures that have never really taken into account the rapid changes to which the work in the show has always been exposed. I would like to make a remark with you which seems to be quite distinct and distant from the subject under discussion, but which, in my opinion, is fitting and is a reference to our responsibility as legislators. Generations of lawyers have been thundering for a long time and still continue to thunder against the risks and damages produced by non-organic regulations that are difficult to interpret and even inaccessible. We know very well, however, that the rules must not only be clear, intelligible and accessible in their formulation, but also and above all suitable to pursue the objectives they aim to achieve. The proposal that we are bringing to the Senate today is a virtuous legislative behaviour because it puts in place the translation of an overall vision. In this regard, I thank the Government, in the people of Minister Franceschini and Minister Orlando. Structural action together with the ability to recognise the intrinsic characteristics of the sector, as well as the ability to measure for example the difference between intermittent work and discontinuous work, is the most awaited response of workers and workers in the entertainment world. Professionals who in the middle of the pandemic experienced a deep state of abandonment due to the inability of the legislator to recognize them as rightholders and bearers of a legitimate application for protection. The construction of a first universal welfare for workers and workers in the supply chain was in the first place among the demands made by the various realities with which the Senate Commissions 7a and 11a related over the months. Here is my satisfaction, my pride. The commitment that Parliament has made with them, however, will only be fully fulfilled when implementing decrees are approved. The delegation law that we are voting on today, in fact, also has the merit of "reviving" the law n. 175 of 2017, approved at the end of the last legislature and unfortunately remained unimplemented, even if the priorities and requirements included in that legislation are still current and urgent. In this sense we think of the valorization of music and contemporary folk music performances, the definition of professional figures and the requirements to carry out this profession, the programming of incentives and support of the shows, the strengthening of the spaces dedicated to them. I personally like to continue to hope for a support for the internationalization of the productions of young Italian artists and the extension of financial support measures to those who organize shows and concerts of pop music. The adoption of the measure is therefore only the first step in a promise that we are going to keep. Today, the foundations are laid for cultural work to be truly protected by means of welfare and social security. It is a return of resources that this sector generates for the country in a democratic, civil and also economic key. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u50	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased to see Minister Franceschini here, who, coming here personally today to follow the debate, with his presence, wanted to give the measure as much attention as he deserves. Today this measure truly marks an epochal turning point because, after seventy-five years, we give dignity to the workers of the show. It has been since 1947 that unfortunately these workers have been deprived of any protection, yet our country lives of culture, thanks also to the workers of the show, who are not only the great artists: we think, for example, also of television formats. I remember how during the pandemic the same great artists wanted to intervene to say that there were so many workers behind them. As my colleague, Mrs De Lucia, rightly said, these same workers had to go to the streets because suddenly, after seventy-five years, it was noticed that they had no allowances. During the period of the emergency from Covid-19, during which they were nicknamed even the invisible, they really received miseries, excuse me if I say so, but it is so. They had to demonstrate, wait and wait for a regulation to then have small allowances, obviously only a drop in the ocean for people who, like us, were forced to give up their freedom, but who, even more serious, could no longer take part in any show and therefore could no longer work, because that is what they can do. It was for them certainly also a great personal trauma, but, thanks also to the choral appeal of all those who were able to participate in the various demonstrations, their protests were collected. Minister, I was the first signatory to this reform on 10 April 2019: already in times not suspicious, therefore, in my opinion this type of activity had to be the subject of attention, especially after the eighteen years of a government in which we have never been able to participate and from which, although these workers are so fond of the left, they have not received any feedback. I therefore hope that, after reading from the other branch of Parliament, where I believe there will be no further delay, the nine months already requested by the Ministry, which will do the most important work by decree, will not become seventy-six years of waiting, because from seventy-five to seventy-six in this Parliament is a moment. I trust in the choral work that has been done by all the political forces, which I feel to thank, because the fact that we have such an important subject at heart as that of the workers of the show has seen us working together, not without difficulty. Unfortunately, in fact, the same definition of workers of the show was difficult to identify. In the law text I presented I had given the following definition, which I would like to recall and explain: for workers of the show are those subjects that, with artistic skills, can be manifested with an inventive activity, an interpretation, an exhibition, a particular physical skill, a specific personality, or even with a qualified technical-artistic competence, give a necessary or substantial contribution to the realization or the best success of the show. In this measure all these figures have been recalled in a general way; we have seen that reference has also been made to lyric-symphonic foundations and in this sense a great praise goes to those who wanted to insert them. The most important element, which must be highlighted today and for which we must really stress the great work done by the Commission, is the recognition of the discontinuity allowance. I want to explain to those who listen to us that in the case of actors, musicians, extras or anyone involved in a performance, which translates and synthesizes maybe in a minute, behind that minute there is evidence, there is a physical and psychic energy, but above all there is a studio, because you have to prepare to do that minute of show and to switch from one show to another. This is especially true when we talk about theatres: I think, for example, of "The Duelists," which I saw at the Quirino Theatre in Rome, where there were people who recited with armor, with swords, so there is also a need for enormous physical strength. Well, when I listened to these people in 2019 I was really grounded thinking about the incredible work they did in my opinion. A job that - I want to remind you, and for this reason I also ask the attention of the House - when we were locked in the house because of Covid certainly could give us comfort because it was the actors, the artists, who kept us company, because we were all glued to television. To them I really want to give a round of applause, which I will do on behalf of everyone, because they really deserved it, and I invite you to applaud the artists [[Applause),]] because in seventy-five years they have never stopped; they have continued to work for us and have kept us company even on difficult days locked in the house because of Covid, when the only comfort could be TV. Minister, I am not going to go into the matter any further, because my colleagues have already discussed it a great deal. I really hope - and I therefore appeal to your attention and your sensitivity - that this Parliament will have the honour to be able to shed light on this truly historic measure as we have waited seventy-five years for it. Thank you, colleagues, and good work! [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u52	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u53	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u54	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, it was an important job, a shared choral work, and I would like to thank the Presidents, the rapporteurs and all the Members of the 7th and 11th Commissions of which I am a member. The approval of this bill, which delegates the Government in the matter of entertainment, is a first step towards the full recognition of the rights of workers in this sector, since always, unfortunately, considered - at least as far as legislative protections - children of a minor god. It was during the pandemic that we finally realized the need to make an in-depth focus on this sector, which was certainly among the most penalized by the crisis linked to the Covid. The analysis of the situation has revealed poor legislation, which guaranteed little or nothing those who work in the entertainment world, with poor standards that did not fully protect the workers in the sector. The work situation of the entertainment sector had to be looked at for a long time and deserved to be addressed in concrete terms. We had the opportunity to finally take control of the situation by addressing the problems of workers in the sector and trying to solve them. With this bill a first brick is put in place and the Government is delegated to provide for measures to carry out the reorganization of the laws and regulations on entertainment, as well as the reorganization and revision of the shock absorbers, allowances and temporary economic support instruments in favour of the workers in the sector, enrolled in the pension fund workers of the show. Measures are provided that restore dignity to those employed in this sector, who qualify and professionalise the various figures, who clearly regulate and frame the worker, ensuring protection also in case of illness and giving guarantees for pension purposes. In many cases, unfortunately, in the common imagination the worker of the artistic spectacle or culture is often assimilated to a hobbyist, to the one who enjoys doing this type of activity or who does it - pass me the phrase colored - to lost time, because he has another job with an income that allows him to live. The subtitle of this concept is: it has fun and fun while working, not bad if it does not have the same guarantees as other workers. This is absolutely dequalifying, unfair and does not correspond to reality. Those who come to provide an artistic performance most often do so after years of study, sacrifices and trials, with an important training behind them. Wrongly - as profanes - we only consider the artist's commitment only with regard to the hours in which he is engaged in the show or at the most extend his possible work involvement to the hours spent in the rehearsals. Unfortunately, in many cases, when we talk about show, we totally ignore the study and training that brings the artist to that particular performance. [[Applause]] To emerge in any sector, including the artistic one, it is not enough to have talent, but there is a need for dedication and sacrifice. Being prepared for a certain activity may possibly facilitate us, but in order to move from being in power to becoming an act (commodating the philosopher Aristotle) there are years of study, kilometres travelled, exercises, books consumed and all that follows. The paradigm must be radically changed: working in this sector is not a pastime and deserves the protection granted to other workers. The measure that we are going to vote on today, after a fruitful debate in the Commission, in which we have managed to improve aspects in our opinion that are lacking, begins to rearrange the sector in a way that is functional to the improvement of the quality of the services offered, makes the protection for the providers of work and regularizes them. I have taken action to introduce an important amendment to promote the entry into the labour market of young people studying subjects relevant to the sector. I am referring to children with a diploma in higher secondary education who come from professional schools with an address in cultural and entertainment services and with courses related to fashion, mechanics, electronics, electrical engineering, and their ability to work in the entertainment industry. For them we have asked to promote the activation of training and guidance internships, also through the conclusion of special agreements with the professionals in the field of fashion and entertainment; an additional piece to help them concretely enter this world. This bill is a fundamental step in the path towards proper recognition and support and the definition of guarantees for workers in the entertainment world. Let's not just imagine the successful actor or the singer who fills the stadiums with his concerts; let's think about the workers, those who work in the sector in a professional way, those who engage daily, carrying out their activities like any other worker in another sector, those who have to work that mountain hours to get a decent salary. There are thousands of professionals in theatre, music, cinema, opera, dance and all performing arts who will finally, thanks to this legislation, be able to count on new safeguards and guarantees. [[Applause]] This is the real, first important and substantial intervention with regard to the entertainment sector. We are at the side of the government and for this reason I thank the Ministers who have taken care of this work and, in particular, the Undersecretary for Culture, Senator Lucia Borgonzoni, who has personally paid for the drafting of this measure. As a League we are very attentive to the problems of those who work in this sector and during the pandemic we have repeatedly urged interventions and refreshments to soothe the inevitable economic recession of the workers of the live show. We are aware that this text does not fully meet the expectations of these workers, but we are equally convinced that the path taken is the right one and that the Government and the Commission will work so that the situation in the future can improve significantly. There must no longer be A and B workers, because those who work in the entertainment sector in many cases feel abandoned to themselves and we can no longer allow that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Matrisciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u56	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues from the Committees on Employment and Culture, who have worked together to define this important measure. In particular, I thank my colleague Riccardo Nencini for the balance and collaboration in the management of the measure, as well as the two rapporteurs, Nunzia Catalfo and Roberto Rampi, for their impeccable work. I would also like to thank my colleague Alessandra Carbonaro, who has already been mentioned, who has carried out a great deal of work in the Chamber through a cognitive survey whose contents are incorporated into the measure under consideration today. Last but not least, I thank the associations that have been close to us, with whom we have been confronted, and the workers themselves, with whom there has been a truly constructive confrontation, which has helped us to improve this measure. I am truly honoured to be here today and to be able to speak in this Chamber on this measure, which is the result of a battle so fought by the Movimento 5 Stars, which finally restores dignity to the workers of the show and shows, with the facts, how much value we give to culture. [[Applause]] If there is, in fact, one sector that has suffered more than others the consequences of the pandemic was that of culture and entertainment. The numbers speak for themselves: from 330,000 workers in the show in 2019 to 260,000 in the following year, with a decrease of at least 21 percent. During the same period, almost €8 billion was estimated to have been burned, with a volume of business that marked a red of less 73 percent: a catastrophe. Thousands of workers, whose lives have been turned upside down by the crisis and whose professionalism has been lost, in the absence of legal instruments capable of protecting them during the period of forced closures. Today marks a fundamental step on the road to the definition of a new regulatory framework to protect the operators of the show, which can finally be recognized and guaranteed the right support. With the approval of the bill delegates on the show, the thousands of professionals of opera, music, theater, cinema, dance and all performing arts will be able to count on new guarantees thanks to the reform of the sector. The changes introduced by the bill therefore provide for the delegation to the Government for the reorganization and revision of the shock absorbers and allowances and for the introduction of a discontinuity allowance such as structural and permanent compensation. We have already said that, but it must be reiterated, precisely because of its revolutionary scope. That for employment contracts, as well as for fair compensation for the self-employed and, again, for the recognition of the profession as a live entertainment agent, but also for the strengthening and extension of the functions of the performance observatory and the establishment of a permanent table in the entertainment sector. In particular, I would like to mention the discontinuity allowance. The discontinuity allowance, introduced through the approval of an amendment that, in fact, has included economic support for periods of inactivity, recognizes (and this is fundamental) the times of preparation, training and study as integral parts of the actual working time, because they are natural and indispensable for those who carry out a work in the performing arts. I can say, full of pride, that this is the first concrete support dedicated to the workers of the show. With my colleague, Mr Nencini, we urgently called for a meeting with the Government to address the problem of the resources to be allocated to finance the discontinuity allowance, which we believe is a necessary and not postponed measure because it is the workers of the show who ask us loudly. The foundation of this new social shock absorber concerns the very nature of the activity of those who work in the world of culture and great events. It is often intermittent and fragmented, alternating periods of work with periods of detention. The creation of this new instrument would fill a vulnus that the pandemic has brought out clearly. We must create uniform safeguards and say enough to a system that travels at two speeds and is based on the dichotomy of guaranteed and not guaranteed. [[Applause]] The keystone is to focus on the universalism of protection and rights. That is why it is so important for these resources to be identified. It is a political battle that we will also carry out on an institutional level. Obviously in the next budget law it will be appropriate to find the appropriate cover, in addition to those already included in the show emergency fund. Beyond everything, today's is undoubtedly an important step forward for the completion of the new welfare of the show, which required a real revolution on the level of protections and rights granted to a category that has been unjustly penalized to date. Today the 5 Star Movimento is here and will remain alongside the workers of culture and entertainment, to establish a new beginning based on greater protection and more support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u57	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u58	Mr President, I shall make a very quick reply. I think this is a very important day. Senators' speeches have certified the great teamwork done in the Commissions. I thank Minister Franceschini for having followed the whole process and for his presence here today. The hope is that we will proceed quickly with the legislative decrees and the discipline of this set of norms and protections, with the regulation that also concerns the compensations, the welfare and the compensation of discontinuity that certifies the fact that working in the field of the show, for all the different types of workers (from artists to technicians), is a real job; it is a discontinuous job, but it produces useful and is a fundamental part of the Italian economy, as well as an important investment in culture for our country. The hope is that we will proceed quickly and that this sector will also be a new driver for the new professions. We are facing an evolution of the labour market, new technologies, new professionalism also in this sector, so also a new opportunity for young people to invest in their future and to have certainty of their own life plan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u59	I call the rapporteur, Senator Rampi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u60	Mr President, remembering - because it is right - the many people who have really contributed to this measure, who are less known and who do not appear and will not appear in the parliamentary chronicles, there are three names I would like to mention. The first is that of the President of my Commission, Riccardo Nencini, because he really put in this measure an energy, a tenacity and a generosity not common; I think he has made the difference and it is right I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. The other two names are those of two technical figures, Professor Casini and Dr. Cipollone, who really put an incredible energy in this measure: sometimes you have to remember also those who work in the public administration and support our activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u61	I call the Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u62	Mr President, I too would like to add my thanks to all those who have worked so hard, very hard and determinedly: the President of the Commission, the rapporteurs, the whole of the Culture Commission, beyond the political guidelines. I think it can be said that it really is a good parliamentary history of relations between Parliament and the Government, which also shows how fruitfully one can work until the last day of the parliamentary term and not disperse one. The route was very participatory. The work was done first with the presentation of numerous legislative proposals of parliamentary initiative; followed by the cognitive investigation carried out by the Chamber of Deputies and then the participatory path of involvement of the categories and all the representatives of the sector, which as you know is very varied, and which led to the drafting of the bill. Finally, the parliamentary work which has led in a non-rhetorical way to a great improvement of the text and the introduction of many novelties. I mention only a few of them: the discontinuity allowance, i.e. the possibility for the work of the spectacle - which is by nature inconsistent - to have a cover at times of non-work; the fair compensation for the self-employed; the recognition of live clubs; the recognition of the discipline of the profession of agent and representative of the live performance; the increase in the daily remuneration recognized. And I could continue, including the new criteria for the FUS. They are all innovative things, prepared with a very convinced and shared path, which also had as an engine - I think we must recognize it - the events of the months of the pandemic and lockdown. As often happens, crises - even the most dramatic - bring with them some positive consequences. In those months the whole country and also the political decision-makers who do not normally deal with culture (because they mainly deal with other things, as is understandable) have understood what Italy is with the museums and closed theaters, without music in the squares and streets, how much the country becomes poorer and how much wealth comes from the theatrical, musical and entertainment production that characterizes Italy so strongly and makes it recognized in the world. We also understood, through the provision of the many refreshment measures of those months, how precarious the situation of the workers of the show was. Nor was there the numerical awareness of the phenomenon of precarious workers of the spectacle. The various emergency measures have brought out all this multitude of people who have been waiting for recognition for decades. That was the engine that allowed us to move on. It is now necessary for the measure to be completed. We must run for the approval of the House of Deputies and the approval of the implementing decrees. We have to run and we'll run. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u63	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed with the examination of the articles on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u64	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u65	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u66	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As a result of the adoption of amendment 2.100, we shall proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 7 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda for the G13,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u67	Mr President, the opinion of the rapporteurs is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government is in favour of accepting it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u69	Having been accepted by the Government, the G13.100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u72	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government and the rapporteurs for the inclusion of this agenda, which we felt was necessary in the field of music, as it also calls for special attention to be paid to jazz music, which has now become part of the UNESCO heritage. I believe that for a country like Italy, which has also made this musical journey a flagship and excellence, the attention from the Government and Parliament is really a good signal. Thank you very much, Minister Franceschini, we expect this agenda to become a formal commitment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u73	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u76	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, today we are voting for a measure strongly awaited by the whole world of culture and entertainment. It is one of the hardest hit sectors during the pandemic, between the impossibility of live shows and systematically skipped programming for the succession of pandemic waves. Today, finally, this sector revises the light and the numerous concerts and live events are there to remember how much in these two years we have missed the culture and how much we have missed the shows. However, the pandemic has changed certain habits of cultural consumption of Italians: I think above all of cinema and the fact that there are no signs of recovery on the collections in the halls. We hope, as some say, that this is a consequence of the long tail of the restrictions: at the bottom, being in the room for two hours with a mask is not the best. Meanwhile, the big platforms have grown in number and increased the number of their subscribers during the pandemic two-year period. Their explosion also on the production side raises serious questions about the contractual power that the individual professional or local teacher can exercise in relation to a multinational. However, the speech is not just about cinema. Let's think about how the music economy has changed, with the loss of record profitability and the need for musicians to focus on live concerts. It is the whole of these transformations that explains the meaning and value of the provision, which finally recognizes the artist as a worker, with his rights and his protections. He is a particular professional, structurally precarious, with an irregularity that is also the daughter of artistic needs and of the relationship with his talent. How many are those who, in order to guarantee certain quality standards, need moments of decantation and how many need to stop to study or do experimentation and research? If not all, the great majority. The law we are voting on today deals with this issue in the right direction. I am thinking of the discontinuity allowance as a permanent structural allowance. I am thinking of the recognition of the importance of trial periods, which constitute hours of work for every effect of the career of workers and performers. I am thinking of the recognition of the daily allowance as an additional element of compensation in the event of an obligation on the worker to ensure his or her availability on call or to guarantee an exclusive benefit. I am thinking of the question of fair compensation, proportionate, that is, the quantity and quality of the work carried out, as well as the complexity of the performance. I am thinking of the increase in contributions and the calculation basis for sickness or maternity treatment, including parental leave. Very important is also the whole line that aims to rearrange the entire discipline, with the birth of a code of the show. In particular, the lyric-symphonic foundations, for which in recent years a precious work has been carried out, are called to imagine themselves as the beating heart of national culture: already, it is that Italian opera that is a unicum worldwide and represents an absolute point of reference on the planet for musical culture. These realities must therefore have closer relations with their respective territories and, on the other hand, must not give up the ambition to be attractive poles of international tourism for the quality of their offer. Needless to say, Italy has infinite potentialities on the cultural front. Due also to the good decisions of the last Governments, in the country has matured a cross-cutting awareness of culture as an economic flywheel, as an instrument of civil growth and as an element of qualification of Italy in the eyes of the world. You don't eat with culture! Putting at the centre its protagonists, artists and all those who work in the economy of the show, is added an additional important piece. That is why we are firmly voting for this delegation law, with the hope that it will soon be translated into concrete elements in order to give such an important world a further boost and to protect a category of workers too often forgotten. Finally, in thanking the two speakers, Senator Rampi and Senator Catalfo, and of course Minister Franceschini for the Government, I announce the favorable vote of the Group For the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u79	CORRADO (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Madam President, nice colleagues and representatives of the government, good evening. I would have liked to use an equally deferent aggressiveness for both, but distinct; i.e. apostrophate as "gentle" one and "degregate" the other or vice versa. Never before, however, would it be a contradiction in terms of giving the deed to any of you, if etymology is still a science that is not exactly accurate, but at least reliable. How, in fact, could I attest to the fact that I am "necessary" (from "ex-grege," that is, out of the flock) of those who entrust to this Government, or to those who take responsibility for it, any sensitive matter such as all those that come to this House, which we once dealt with, as a duty of Parliament? I say once, because the rain of trust issues proves that Mark Twain was not wrong, when he claimed that if voting made any difference, they would not make us do it. In fact, the government of the best does not make us do it, except on issues on which, not considering the exercise of thought, discussion and choice, to save appearances, allows us to carry out the whole activity of this Assembly and then to vote. It is in order to save appearances, precisely, to give a little body to that ectoplasm of parliamentary democracy that still wanders among these benches, that we are called here today to vote the delegation to the Government and other provisions in the matter of entertainment, although now knowing from experience, consolidated by more than a year of activity of the Executive Draghi, that it is impossible to delegate to this Government anything in good faith, hoping that it is able - even before that intention - to act in the interest of the community, less than less in the post-pandemic. However, I would like to accompany the explanation of vote by the CAL Group, which you have intuitioned at this point to be against, with some wide-ranging reflections. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor again in this House with some hesitation, if we exclude questions and speeches at the end of the sitting, after many months of silence. My last speech was the eulogy of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, which, far from being the subject of a mere change of denomination, on the occasion was instead annihilated on the initiative of this Executive, but with the uninformed consent of Parliament, in favor of the birth of the Golem called Ministry of Culture, functional exclusively to complete the dismemberment and alienation to deprived of the public cultural heritage, what it obviously renders, and throw away the rest, persecuted by Minister Franceschini, first sicarius and then ditator of the glorious Mibac, in each of its multiple mandates to the Roman College. (18.27) (Continues CORRADO). In order not to reopen this painful page, I abstained from speaking last week, when the Teatro Regio di Parma was recognized as a national monument in this House. Of course, we also voted in favour of the commendable initiative promoted and pursued with determination by Senator Saponara. On that occasion I wanted to underline the inconsistency between the decreed apotheosis of the container, in itself acceptable - I repeat - and indeed reason of pride for all Italians, and the indifference, not to say the bitterness, towards the content by the Ministry, which unfortunately has competence also on that, that is, the workers of the show and the audience that receives it, united by being reduced both to customers, also here in an etymological sense (I quote from the dictionary Treccani: In ancient Rome, however, those who, while enjoying the state of freedom, were dependent on a powerful (patron) citizen from whom he received protection. As I said, both have been reduced to customers, rather than recognizing to one the dignity of living body of the institute and to the other that of conscious users of a cultural content. And beware that I speak of content and not of product, because the pervasiveness of mercantile jargon in the current language is such as to make it more infesting than war jargon and sports jargon and the thoughts - it is known - are elaborated in relation to the instruments, the words, of which each one disposes. I said that unfortunately, the Dicastery to which the preservation and valorization of a historic building for shows such as the Teatro Regio di Parma and, at the same time, it is up to the professionals that these shows carry out, offering them then to the public, is the same; unfortunately, I repeat it again, because the inability to realize the forecasts of Article 9 of the Constitution, the very reason for the existence of the Ministry (which today is of culture), is appreciated - it is done to say - both on the level of protection and consequent valorization for cultural purposes of the historical-artistic, archaeological and landscape heritage, both on the level of regulation and promotion of cultural activities, which should draw material and momentum for a new creation. I do not expect you to believe me by faith, especially since the distortion of reality in the field of culture in Italy, indeed its reversal, entrusted to the voice of the complacent media lasts almost a decade now. It is the facts that speak and tell us that entrusting this Government with an intervention in the field of entertainment means challenging fate, knowing that it is leaving losers. Let me explain, briefly mentioning the fourteen lyric-symphonic foundations. As an effective member of the 7th Commission, in this legislature, on the basis of the reports that we all receive from the outside world and that, once verified, we turn into acts, I have promoted three questions about the Teatro Regio Foundation in Turin. Rosanna Purchia, sponsored by what the press has defined - without being denied, beware - the real decision-maker of the Ministry of Culture, even beyond the time limit of the extension of the assignment conferred on her (all other than free, moreover), during her commissioning, has ringed a series of administrative irregularities, reaching to modify the statute and to create executive figures ex novo, in contempt of the regulations of the field. Another question called into question the Teatro San Carlo di Napoli and the Arena di Verona, from where just a few days ago a document has arrived to all of us on the situation of the added workers of Fondazione Arena di Verona, because the fundamental problem, beyond the obvious differences that happen on a case-by-case basis, is the progressive and systematic reduction of the rights of the workers, forced even to renounce the present and future disputes towards the agency, in order to obtain the next series of contracts that are as many declarations of unconditional surrender, as many crumbs and, technically, are contractual extortions. Yet the dancers, the musicians, the singers, the artistic masses are themselves an important and, indeed, preponderant part of that cultural heritage that the Ministry should protect; they are the guardians of our tradition and the creators of that faithful and happy reproduction that would assure our memory of having a future, if only we wanted. No, you don't. Even the lyrical song, invention and absolute pride of Italy, comes this year to the candidacy as an element of the intangible heritage recognized by UNESCO only at the price of unspeakable negotiations under the table, with serious evidence of who, although having offered more in financial terms (because applications are bought and sold, of course), does not fully respond to the tactical needs of the current operators of that golden-egged hen that is our intangible heritage, new frontier of the ambitions of many. Halfway, so to speak, between tangible and intangible assets, between tangible and intangible, lies the great deal of the paths and paths and their alleged valorization, on which we are consuming a struggle without neighborhood between those who still manage together (mally) cultural assets and activities, reasoning however as if managing tourism, and those who, managing tourism, naturally claim their own spaces of maneuver compared to initiatives that are in fact eminently tourist, with a variable cultural connotation (religious, historical, literary, naturalistic or other). The electoral return hopefully from favoring this or that municipality, this or that territory, this or that economic operator, perhaps under the cloak of the third sector, goes to all the tireless hunters of votes. However, said of a question about the somber music, a dramatic problem that is not seriously addressed even on this occasion, I return to the show, citing another act of inspection union that dealt with the thorny theme of the direction of the Opera House in Rome and mentioning the consequences in proud of the further reliable reports arrived more recently by the Fondazione Teatro di Cagliari. In several cases, the content of the inspection union acts or the reporting itself has been translated into exposure to the territorially competent prosecutors. Always - pay attention, colleagues - the malfunction of the machine highlighted by the reporters (true whistleblower that, in the absence of guarantees of protection of anonymity, do not denounce the public administration) refers to the wrong choices of what has been and is the political summit of the Ministry today of Culture, what all the political forces present in this House have endorsed, despite the evidence of the irreparable damage already done to the country since the first season. That same summit is now in the name of the proposal and calls on Parliament to delegate its powers to intervene in all the complex aspects of entertainment and cultural activities in general. But what is the spirit, what is the perspective and what are the principles under which the Government of the Best will intervene on all this? Beyond the intentions proclaimed, it is the facts that speak and the citizens know how to read them perfectly. The fiction is discovered, colleagues: the Government of the best, to whose Ministry of Culture the Court of Auditors last February, regarding externalizations, contested the potential violation of as many as three articles of the Constitution (not a regulation of condominium, with all respect), has the boldness to ask us for a delegation in white to act on the voice of culture, that is on the soul of the country, on the past and therefore on the future of Italy. The answer is no, ladies and gentlemen, because in the CAL acronym of the opposition group to which I belong the initial "C" stands for "Constitution" and our Constitutional Charter calls us all - it would also call you, if only you had ears to understand, but especially the institutions - to act in the name and in the interest of the State-collectivity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u82	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today marks a fundamental stage in the creation of a new regulatory framework for the protection of entertainment operators, who, thanks to a series of instruments, can finally be recognised and guaranteed the right support. I would also like to thank the valuable work of all the parliamentary groups and, in particular, of the Group to which I belong, Italy Viva-PSI. With the approval of the measure at our examination, the thousands of professionals of music, theater, cinema, dance and all the arts, will be able to count on new guarantees, thanks to a comprehensive reform of the sector. The workers of the entertainment world will today have the first answers to the demands for greater protection that they have advanced in recent months, in the face of a precariousness that for too long has characterized the world of the arts. It is a first step that comes after years that are very difficult and complex for everyone, but above all for the workers of the entertainment world, who were among those most affected by the measures of containment of the pandemic. Today we finally have a nice opportunity to build the framework of sector within which we will have to move in the next few years to build additional dowels. This too is a sign of change thanks to a new Government, led by an authoritative person like President Draghi, to whom we thank once again. We have seen in these two years of pandemic what it meant to live without the places of culture and lose emotions and passion. We have also seen how the world of culture has reacted to the daily tragedies that we are experiencing with a war at our doorstep. In fact, the universal message of culture speaks not only to the head, but also to the heart, to those feelings and to those positive values that are part and are the heritage of our country, which is based above all on culture. I do not want to focus specifically on the individual areas in which the bill moves, instead trying to briefly retrace the main novelties. The reopening of the delegation to the Government in the matter of reordering of the laws and regulations in the matter of entertainment marks first of all the reorganization and revision of the shock absorbers and allowances for the introduction of an allowance of discontinuity as structural and permanent compensation. I am also thinking of the recognition of the profession as a live entertainment agent, but also of the strengthening and extension of the functions of the entertainment observatory and the establishment of the permanent table in this sector, as well as the establishment of a one-stop shop for the show, aimed at ensuring greater protection for these workers. These are certainly important novelties, in particular on two aspects that are taken into account by the bill: on the one hand, the recognition of the social role of workers and entertainment professionals as an indispensable factor for the development of culture and arts in our country and in the world; on the other hand, the recognition of specificities such as flexibility, but also the discontinuity that characterize performances in the world of entertainment. There could be almost an antithesis between these two aspects, namely the recognition of a role and a social utility, but also almost the weaknesses inherent in this work. I believe that this contradiction is only apparent and the draft law in question demonstrates this, because it has been able to enhance those aspects that only on the surface might seem more problematic, such as mobility and flexibility and, above all, discontinuity, but that are also the strengths of the works of the entertainment world. For this important result I really feel like thanking the speakers of the measure, Senator Rampi and Senator Catalfo, the Government, especially Minister Franceschini, and the presidents of the two Commissions, Nencini and Matrisciano. I would like to thank you for your contribution and support to fundamental standards that finally want to provide welfare and social security protection. The question that everyone is asking today in the world of entertainment is how it will be possible to overcome the shortage of staff, especially in the live and in the world of theatre, sectors that are now starting towards a summer finally full of events. Moreover, many workers have decided not to return to work in this sector precisely because of its fragility, which is not only overcome by the reopening of cultural places with full capacity, because they need structural and more structured interventions. There is therefore a problem for a sector that in 2019 produced EUR 11.4 billion, equal to 0.6 of Italian GDP, and that without workers will inevitably struggle to achieve the same numbers. The turning point that we make today with the first approval of this bill is really Copernican. Without a change of pace of this type, this sector could hardly have returned to growth and flourishing, continuing to represent a strategic area of the Italian economy. I believe that this time, too, Parliament, particularly in the relevant Commissions, through the cross-cutting work done between colleagues, colleagues and the Government, has produced a result that goes in the right direction. We still have a lot to work on, but we are convinced that this is the direction to take. For all these reasons, I can only declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u85	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have listened to emphatic words about this measure, but sincerely, as Senator Maffoni, our colleague in the Group and member of the Commission, has already announced, we believe that this is a missed opportunity to give a fully concrete and incisive response to a world that has been waiting for you for years. We are also very sorry because, for the umpteenth time, the amending proposals of Brothers of Italy, which never has a preliminary attitude, have been absolutely ignored. We had all the intention of making a contribution that would significantly improve the measure, which for a long time was blocked in the Commissions, in view of the evidence that there were also very obvious political conflicts, which culminated when the Government was beaten on an amendment tabled by a majority representative on the delicate issue - which we too have been proposing and proposing for years - of the supervision of the management of lyrical-symphonic foundations. The majority have split, but this is not a novelty, in the light of what is now happening in the usual way in the Commissions. However, our critical abstention position that we will express does not prevent us - as our intellectual honesty, on the other hand, always allows us - from recognizing that the delegation of the show certainly introduces new elements, even if not decisive, in the precariousness of the workers of the show and in the face of the need to guarantee the cultural sector. A limited answer has come, I repeat - practically Tachipirina and vigilantly awaited - to the problems that the Commissions of Chamber and Senate education have had the opportunity to study and deepen in a very exhaustive way. Therefore, I would like to make a critical point, first of merit and then of method, moving from the technicality of the more political issues. We have tabled amendments for the reform of the Single Fund for performance in the National Arts Fund; it is present in Parliament - at the first signature of my colleague Mr Mollicone della Camera, who is also our head of the Culture Department - a bill for the revision of the Single Fund for performance, which eliminates in particular the distorting role of consultative commissions as requested by the categories, as in the case of the Live Show Movement, and promotes the introduction of the deduction of cultural consumption, necessary to relaunch the demand for culture that we have proposed several times both to the Chamber and to the Senate in more measures and budget laws. The left is always in favour of the deduction of cultural consumption, but then never votes for the measure. These are issues on which, instead, Brothers of Italy has always been at the forefront alongside the categories, as in the case of Federculture, so much so as to include incentives to demand for culture - I am thinking of the deduction of cultural consumption and the reduction of VAT to 4% for cultural products - in the party's government program since its foundation. We very much welcome the recognition of the profession as a live entertainment agent, as well as the strengthening and extension of the functions of the entertainment observatory and the establishment of the permanent table in the entertainment sector, the subject of our agenda, which was voted on in the Chamber of Deputies. It should be pointed out that the delegation - as my previous colleague said - does not address the live club sector, nor does it specify the role of live entertainment as a cultural enterprise. Yet, despite our common sense amending action, the opposition was excluded and remained unheard. Colleagues, we will abstain critically for the reasons I have explained, but we will never be against those who make culture, music and show, because it represents a very important and fundamental identity reference for our nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u88	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would also like to join in the thanks given to the Commissioners of Commissions 7a and 11a of their respective Presidents and, of course, to the rapporteurs, Senator Rampi and Senator Catalfo, who have wisely built this passage, this draft law, and in particular the delegation within which the implementation of the Government must be placed. In fact, thanks must also be given to the Government, which has followed this path and which today assumes ownership of the implementation phase. A special thanks goes to Minister Franceschini, who is present today, to point out, once again, the importance of this passage. We shall vote in favour of this bill for at least two reasons. I will be very brief, not to repeat so many observations that, fortunately, have repeated themselves, in the sense that many interventions are essentially overlapping, this to demonstrate a very wide sharing with respect to this passage. The first reason concerns the content itself, the measures that this provision provides, precisely the framework that has been built and the tracks that the Government will have to move along, in a key of enrichment and expansion of the delegation, in the light of what has happened in recent months and in recent years in our country. I am referring to the establishment of the national register of the workers of the show; to the activation of a programmatic table between the Ministry of Heritage and Cultural Activities and Tourism and Enit; to the delegation to the Government to adopt a legislative decree for the reorganization and revision of the shock absorbers (senator Catalfo made a very specific and peculiar emphasis on this very important aspect); again, I refer to the changes concerning the observatory of the show and the recognition of the profession of agent of the live show, about which Senator Rampi said very well, as well as to the legal recognition of the live clubs, which represent an important piece of reasoning that has been carried forward. I insist that these are all significant measures, which enrich this delegation and which are, in turn, the result of the enrichment of the debate that has produced the result that we are delivering to this House today, in respect of which it is right that its members should be able to express the right pride for the value of this passage. This is certainly our first motivation, but there is another, of course, which has to do, yes, with the content, but above all with the symbolic value of what we are going to approve. In my opinion, expressions have been used which are not emphatic but adapted to the subject we are discussing and therefore also to the content that we are approving. I have heard, for example, from someone who has previously intervened that the discontinuity allowance is a historical result. In fact, we could define it exactly in these terms. It is, precisely because of the symbolic meaning of what we are discussing. You, Minister, said something very important in your speech, namely that the discontinuity of the professional figures in the entertainment world is not a pathological element (I repeat what you said). It is not the pathology of the system, but it is the physiology and the intimate nature of that peculiar professional figure. I like to call it a trade, that of the show, precisely because it is a mixture of intellectual formation, but also of material, material and physical component. Much of the show is expressed through the voice and through the bodies. To have imagined a delegation with these characteristics means to give value to those figures, but also to the content and nature of this type of profession, which can only be discontinuous. The pathology, if anything, is not to have built a floor, a protection net or an armament, that yes, very physical, material and concrete, to support these workers. It was said basically in all the interventions that we measured ourselves with this phenomenon during the pandemic. Maybe we should have opened our eyes first. At present, the pandemic has increased this dynamic. We have dramatically measured ourselves with this sector, as well as with all the others that we have supported, but objectively we have also taken a risk: on the one hand, we lit the spotlight, to use a metaphor that in this passage could be fit; but, on the other, we risked to widen the scissors among the intentions, the right emphasis of a huge theme (to take care of the workers who make Italy what it is, that is, a country famous in the world for art, culture and entertainment), and what we were actually in the conditions to do to accompany these workers. I say more: there is a public, collective perception that must be overturned. We are the country of arts, culture and entertainment, but often, addressing one of these who are perhaps workers of art, culture or live entertainment, we ask: but what work do you do? The answer is: I deal with art, I play musician, I play actor. And you often hear replying: yes, but what is your real job? There is a perception that must be completely reversed and it is paradoxical that this happens exactly in a country like ours. It is therefore good to have put a political and cultural reasoning and it is good to have accompanied it with an instrumentation and therefore also with very concrete and material indications on how to help these workers, but all this must serve to overturn the dignity of these workers, therefore also the perception and the function of the role they play. This applies to the workers of the show, but I say more. I see Mr Verducci, who I believe will intervene after me, with whom I have shared, as well as with many other colleagues and colleagues, some small battles, which are not small, because they had their own value: I think, for example, to having "fought" with some small outcome and not as we would have liked, so that the PhD students - a subset of them, for the truth - who had a stop during the pandemic, because at some point they could no longer benefit from the structures, archives and databases and could not turn, had an extension of their PhD grant. It was like restoring the dignity of workers to them, because doctoral students are workers. And it was a small, great battle: it applies to doctoral students; it applies to workers of art, entertainment and live music; it applies to all those who want to continue doing this job, this work, and want to do it in the sign of the natural and physiological discontinuity that provides for this kind of profession, but they must also feel free. To feel free means to be exactly in the position to be able to do that work and function, naturally for the benefit of their expectations and aspirations, but I believe first and foremost for the benefit of the greatness of this country and its immense artistic, cultural and of course also musical heritage. So once again I thank all those who have worked on this result and of course I am encouraging the Government to take this delegation into their hands and to finally produce a concrete step. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u91	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day and it is an emotion to be here, to vote on this measure and to build it, day after day, in these two very difficult years, since - suddenly - all the theatres, all the cinemas and all the spaces of live music were forced to close for an endless time. In those days we immediately had a political awareness, which then moved us and led us in these months, namely that the crisis would not affect everyone in the same way and that there were sectors and categories that, already too vulnerable, risked being wiped out. There was an awareness of the risk of losing entire generations of professionals in the performing and creative arts: artists, authors, technicians and independent producers. I quote them together because this is also a political point: it is a single world, a single chain that wins or loses together and that must be recognized in its entirety; a dynamic world, always changing, where new professions and new roles are born under the drive of the technological and digital revolution and multimedia transformations that continuously widen its perimeter. It is time that all this work - no one excluded - was recognized and that everyone had rights, protection and dignity. Making culture, making shows, making art is a job and as such must be recognized, respected, paid and protected. [[Applause]] This today, at last, we conquer. The professions of culture and the arts are an extraordinary economic and social multiplier; they create wealth, civil consciousness, cohesion and shared identity; they are a decisive piece of our economy and our gross domestic product, of our international projection; they are the fulcrum of that feeling that binds our country to all the countries of the world, of that suggestion of Italy in the world that makes our country loved and desired everywhere; they are a formidable vector for our Made in Italy and for our competitive ability. That is why this law concerns not only certain categories, but the whole country. There is in this law an idea of a model of development, democracy and the future. This law is a watershed and can mark a new beginning, because those who do this profession often could not do it with their heads high. In Italy it is very difficult to do creative work and you are often alone and invisible. The pandemic has hit this sector harder for this reason too, because it is an area where fragmentation is stronger than elsewhere, where injustices and inequalities are stronger than elsewhere. It is a sector conditioned by asphyxiating dominant positions, in which it is difficult to emerge for one's talent. That is why we strongly said, at the beginning of the pandemic, that economic support would not be enough, but that new rules and structural reforms of change were needed. We did everything we could to ensure that, within the many emergencies of the pandemic, there was talk of the emergence of cultural workers, to prevent these voices from getting lost or silenced, to put them at the centre of political debate and public debate. We asked for these voices to be heard in Parliament. We have held whole sessions of hearings and listened in particular to the demands of the new associative realities born during the pandemic, in the most difficult time. And it is with them that we have prepared the legislative proposals for the recognition of spaces, live clubs and cultural enterprises. We have given these issues political and parliamentary importance, so that no one could ignore them anymore and to prevent the end of the pandemic from returning to the world that was before. The law that we are voting on today stems from this listening and from the common work that politics has done together with representatives of the world of arts and entertainment. We have been together in parliamentary classrooms and squares, in dozens of demonstrations. We had a political battle. This law is the result of a very strong political battle. In preparation for this law, here in the Senate, at the proposal of the Democratic Party, we approved a motion for a statute for the work of the creative sector, the show, the performing arts and then, with my colleague Orfini, we presented a proposal for a law, in December 2020, the result of this collective work. The heart of that proposal is the introduction into our system of an allowance of discontinuity for all workers and workers of entertainment and performing and creative arts, whether they be authors, artists or technicians. The heart of that proposal is today the heart of the measure that we are about to vote on, with that same name and philosophy: "absence allowance." [[Applause]] The Italian Republic finally recognizes, with this measure, the structurally discontinuous nature of these works. It is recognized the time of preparation, the time of study and formation, which is inherent in the opening of the curtain, the performance itself, which is one with the work of the arts. Today is a historic day and it is a pride to be here, it is not a result at all taken for granted. Today, a new phase for Italian legislation in this sector and around this instrument - the discontinuity allowance - will really be able to build a universal, solid welfare for the workers of the entire chain, with the legal, political and social recognition of the work that is being done. Now colleagues - we know - the next immediate objective is to ensure that this innovative instrument is properly funded. What we have is not enough at all, we need much more resources than those currently allocated and we need them since the next budget law. Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who have allowed this to happen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, in particular the Ministers, Minister Andrea Orlando and Minister Dario Franceschini, who has followed all our work today and has always supported this measure. Mr President, it is an important day for politicians, for those who believe in political commitment. This result belongs to all those who have believed in this battle, it belongs to those who, among a thousand difficulties, do this work and from now on can do it head-to-head, with the autonomy that is fundamental for creative work, without having to bend to blackmail; this provision belongs to those who are moved by the enormous passion of wanting to work in this sector, the greatest passion that is worth an entire existence and seeing it frustrated or mortified means giving up their own project of life, to everything that you have in your soul. We did this battle to make sure that no one had to give up their life plan. "No one will have to give up" we marked at the beginning of the pandemic. And today we can say that we have lived up to that commitment. This instrument will allow everyone, especially the youngest, to move forward, not to be alone or invisible anymore, and that is why it is a historical result and in its own way it is a revolutionary result. This battle won today, for us it is a starting point. The work goes on from today. And it is with this commitment, President, that I am very pleased to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u94	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister Franceschini, my fellow senators, the cultural sector, as we know, with its million and a half employees, is among those who have suffered most from the closure of the pandemic. Within this sector, which consists of different supply chains, that of the live show is certainly the one that paid the highest price; a price for many unsustainable, because the situation in pre-pandemic times was already complex. Since the economic and financial crisis of 2007-2008 there has been a rhetoric that, starting from the Greek etymology of the word "crisis," believes that the difficulties of the present can derive opportunities for the future. Tendentially it is a somewhat hollow rhetoric, because this has rarely actually happened. This time not honestly, this time it is different; this time we are faced with a great change, long awaited, which probably had its decisive push precisely in the difficulty that the live entertainment sector has experienced in the pandemic era. We must recognise this, ladies and gentlemen, and we must recognise that we are doing it and that we are about to vote on a system reform, a structural reform, which has its strong element in the recognition, as specific, structural and typical of the live performance, of the discontinuity of the work of those who work there. It is something that has been long desired to date; it is now a rule of law. And it is a rule of law that recognizes the specificity of the worker of the show, not considering the art, the live show, the singing and the music as hobbies, but as real professions. Others are the elements that make up this delegation to the Government, all quite significant and relevant: the introduction of a national register for the workers of the show and their agents, who for the first time see their profession legally formalized; the fair compensation for the self-employed of the live performance; the recognition of the trial periods as hours of work actually carried out; the introduction of a code of the show, to give organicity to the sector; the reorganization of the social shock absorbers; the recognition of the live clubs; the support, but also transparency, for the lyrical-symphonic foundations. Could more be done? Yes, of course, more could be done, especially with regard to economic allocations, but more will be done when the budget law is introduced. What counts - and it is no small matter - is that today we establish a principle: the recognition at the legislative level - and therefore also remuneration, social security, welfare - of the peculiarity of the profession of artist who performs live. It was clearly an act due to the thousands of workers of the show and as a due act it was interpreted by the members of the Committees culture and work of this branch of Parliament. It has already been said, but I would also like to say this: I have not seen, we have not seen, we have not recorded distinctions, tactics, formalisms, positionings, bluffs, or logics of part or party. We have all rowed and we have all rowed in the same direction, convinced that we are doing the right thing, even with different political and cultural sensibilities. I really believe - I sincerely believe - that today each of us, when this delegation law is passed, must be proud. And he may be proud to have helped to heal an injustice and to support those who work in such a clearly important sector for the image and spirit of the nation to which we all belong. Personally, I am also proud of the fact that some points of a bill that I had presented have been transposed and that it has in fact been partly absorbed by this delegation law. What I cared about most, and which will soon be the norm, is what deals with opera. There was an evident incongruity: as classical music speaks Italian, because Italian are the words that compose it and define it, melodrama is an Italian invention. Nothing more Italian than opera. It is for this reason and also thanks to the opera that Italy is famous in the world. We have a lot of extraordinary lyrical interpreters. But if we go to see the billboards of the main performances, the main festivals and the main productions of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, we will easily notice that very often - not always but very often - artists and interpreters of foreign origin prevail. It is an anomaly objectively, which does not honor our history, our characteristics and the extraordinary lyrical talents that, year after year, our schools, academies and practice produce. Did you need a law? Yes, unfortunately there was a need for a law, because what in other countries, such as France or the United States, happens by practice, by us for practice did not happen, because the overpower of the great international agencies and the sensibilities of foreign superintendents meant that non-Italian artists prevailed over artists of Italian nationality. Therefore, the rule that has been transposed in this law provides that a part - the significant hope - of the FUS funds will be provided to opera institutions, festivals and theaters that deal with opera music if - and only if - they will manifest in their billboards at least 75% of Italian performers. It is an encouragement, a stimulus and I would like it to be a precedent, because unfortunately it is necessary to do by law what others do by practice. [[Applause]] It is not a surrender to sovereign rhetoric, but it is a way to render due honor to how much more characterizes us and to open those spaces necessary to young talents - the norm is aimed at young Italian opera talents - who, on the other hand, would be forced to go and practice their art abroad; which, in the home of the melodrama, frankly would be a bit of a paradox. It is for these reasons that Forza Italia will vote firmly on this law, also convinced that the Government will be consistent with the commitments made with Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u97	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, what we are debating here today is a very long-awaited measure by the entertainment industry, which is a sector which has been severely hampered by the pandemic and which is why it has received a great deal of attention from the members of the 7th Commission. In fact, it is after holding several hearings of the representatives of the sector, precisely during the saddest period of the pandemic, that the Committee on Culture decided to intervene in order to draw up legislation that the world of entertainment had been waiting for a long time, in order to guarantee the right protection for a sector that has always lacked in safeguarding workers' rights and also for this reason brought to its knees during the closing of the theatres and cinemas. It has been since April last year that the Committees culture and work, in joint session, have gone to deepen a series of problems to be solved, with the aim of giving a certain order and a fair protection to the workers of the show: from the recognition of the professional figure of the artist to the more strictly contractual issues; from the compensations to the discipline for a social security and insurance protection. These are all themes highlighted in the various draft laws presented in the Commission on the subject, with the aim of obtaining a unified text that would respond to the various needs highlighted by the workers of the show, needs to which also the League, with a draft law at the first signature of Senator Lucia Borgonzoni, today Undersecretary for Culture, has tried to give answers. At the same time the Government has also moved, so much so that in August, again last year, was assigned to the two Joint Commissions, culture and work, the bill delegates for the reorganization of the provisions in the matter of entertainment, text related to the budget law. As members of the Commissions, we immediately began to examine the text that came to us from the Government in order to improve it and make those changes that fulfilled the commitments made with the workers of the show, thus trying to introduce, through amending proposals, some of the norms contained in the bill of parliamentary initiative and - in our opinion - important. This has been a long job, which has committed us several months, and to conclude that we have waited for the budget law, and I will say why. We have finally arrived today at the debate in the Chamber of the bill proposed by the Government which provides, among other things, the following news: the reopening of the delegation to the Government in the matter of reordering the laws and regulations in force in the matter of entertainment; the delegations to the Government for the reordering and revision of the shock absorbers and allowances, for the introduction of an allowance of discontinuity as permanent structural allowance and for employment contracts, as well as for the fair compensation for the self-employed. There will also be recognition of the profession of live entertainment agent, the strengthening and expansion of the entertainment observatory and the establishment - very important and awaited - of the permanent table of the entertainment sector. The draft law also provides for the establishment of the national register of performing workers. In addition, the INPS provides for specific information and communication services in favour of members of the entertainment workers' pension fund in order to facilitate access to telematic services and services. It is precisely with regard to the discontinuity allowance, one of the rapporteurs' amendments, that there has been wide convergence of the members of the Commission. The objective of this measure - already present in the text of the League - is to recognize the specific discontinuous nature of the creative professions. The breaks allowance, in fact, recognizes the times of preparation, training and study as integral parts of the actual working time, because they are natural and indispensable for those who carry out a work in the performing arts. This economic support was among the most discussed issues and for it the budget law was expected, in order to understand what coverage was really possible. We are aware that much more money would have been needed for this measure, for which some 40 million are currently available. In our opinion, more could have been done, since the National Insurance and Assistance Board (ENPALS), absorbed by the INPS, were active every year, as is apparent from a hearing in the Chamber's meeting Commissions VII and XI of 11 November 2020, during which Professor Pasquale Tridico, President of the INPS, had stated that: The pension expenditure remains lower than the contribution. Hence a surplus that is generated from year to year for about 300 million, up to a cumulative to date of approximately 5.4 billion. Of course, in the national accounting system, the capital surplus of the entertainment workers pension fund helps to finance social security schemes in other sectors of production with deficit conditions. I would like to stress, starting with the conclusion of my speech, that during the whole process of the measure under consideration, the Lega Group shared and supported the amendments of the rapporteurs and that some of the amendments of the Lega Group were accepted, which proposed the shortening of the delegation time from twelve to nine months (at my signature) and the possibility of carrying out training internships with professionals in the fashion and entertainment sector in favour of young people who have obtained a diploma in higher secondary education at professional institutions with cultural services and entertainment (signed by Senator Alessandrini). In addition, Senator Rufa's agenda was accepted, which commits the Government to specify that the contribution obligation for wearers and photo models exists only and exclusively in the event that such professionals participate in events with an actual character of spectacularity and perform artistic activities directly related to the production and realization of the show. In conclusion, today we are going to vote on a measure which, while not completely resolving all the problems relating to the entertainment sector, we think has achieved an important result and content. The favorable vote that also the Lega Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will give to the measure is also supported in the statements of some associations of the live show, such as Assomusica, who appreciated the improvements made by the Commissions regarding the issue of the construction of a first universal welfare for the workers of the supply chain and the recognition of the live clubs within the sector. This delegation revives Law No. 175 of 2017, approved at the end of the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately not implemented. I thank the Ministers, in particular Minister Franceschini, who is present today; the rapporteurs, Senator Roberto Rampi and Senator Nunzia Catalfo; the Presidents of the Commissions 7a and 11a the Commissioners for the shared work to achieve this result. Of course, I also thank Senator Lucia Borgonzoni, State Secretary for Culture, who has followed us with attention and passion throughout the journey for the importance and centrality of the workers of the entertainment world, who deserve the right recognition. Minister, our country is great and recognized all over the world thanks also to the contribution, professionalism and passion that these people put into what they do every day and, as such, are our great heritage to protect. The hope, Minister, is that the delegated decrees will now be issued as quickly as possible so as not to miss yet another opportunity to regulate a sector that has been waiting too long for reform. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u100	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very happy day for us too. In fact, we are here to approve the first step in the adoption of the measure to our examination, which - as has already been said - is much awaited by the world of live entertainment workers; a measure which has had a long and tiring journey and journey, but of which Parliament can not only take note today, but also be satisfied. As has already been mentioned in this House, it is a measure which must also be formulated in a cognitive inquiry done to the House of Deputies on the initiative of our colleague Alessandra Carbonaro. I too am very much in agreement with the thanks that have been made. [[Applause.]] Probably, without this cognitive investigation, we would not have had a photograph of what it was and which is the world of work in the live entertainment sector; a cognitive survey - let me say, colleagues - almost prophetic, because then in 2020 unfortunately the pandemic intervened. As has already been mentioned in this House, during the pandemic, the area of live entertainment and culture in general is the one that has paid the most for the serious consequences, but it is also the one that has helped us to soothe, cure and live positively a very heavy lockdown for all citizens. [[Applause]] The pandemic revealed the tragic picture of a sector without a social security and welfare system adapted to the particular nature of its professions, as my colleagues have already mentioned. That's where we started. I would remind you that it is not just a question of thinking about who is already working in this area. It is also a matter of thinking about our young people. I want to give you a figure that has not been mentioned: from a hearing of the association "Bauli in piazza" we have learned that 30% of specialized professionals have left the sector to devote themselves to other jobs, and it is not coming back. And there is also a gap in employment entrances in this sector precisely because the lack of certainty and protection discourages and discourages young people to embrace the professions of entertainment. Many may have met young people who wanted to take up a profession in this sector and who were dissuaded from their parents, unsure and unmotivated to encourage their children to deploy their talent in this field at a professional level. Today, therefore, we also think about the future and not just the existing one. The route has also crossed through other measures. I am thinking, for example, of the support-a decree, which contains important measures such as insurance for the self-employed work of the show; I am thinking, again, of the budget law, in which temporary economic support has been introduced. And then we get to the delegation we're discussing today. It has already been said that it is important to set up a one-stop shop for entertainment workers, to facilitate access to certificates of agibility and, therefore, also to improve the protection of workers. It has already been mentioned the network system of regional observers of the show, who will network with each other and with the national observatory, and not only to monitor and study the data, but also to put in place initiatives aimed at making uniform and effective the measures in favour of the show, so that there are no inequalities between the different regions in this field. We then talked about the heart of the measure, namely the discontinuity allowance. I would like to say a few words about this because - as has already been said - it is not just a matter of providing for a measure in favour of workers. Here it is a question of making a mental and cultural revolution, abandoning the concept that those who work in the world of entertainment do not work, but rather dedicate themselves to it amateurly, and recognizing that the work is expressed not only when we see the final product of the creative process, but also in a whole phase of preparation, updating of their training and study, which is fundamental so that we can enjoy the final product, and I do not say it at random. Very often, in fact, starting from the confusion in the conception of work in this sector, we have put in place partial measures which, in reality, have not completely helped this category of workers. [[Applause]] Thanks then to the intervention of the Movimento 5 Stars we have inserted criteria for the promotion of gender equality - I thank my colleague De Lucia for having entered into detail on this, so I will not repeat myself - and for the recognition of live clubs. Which of us wasn't young and didn't go to a club to listen to live music? Which one of us didn't have a friend, brother, sister, cousin or cousin who started playing in one of those clubs as independent emerging artists, and then maybe moved on to a professionalism that saw them in international twists? Let us think, gentlemen, and I do not tire of reminding all of us, the Maneskins, the Maneskins. [[Applause]] We therefore have a duty to recognize to these places their social and cultural function of contamination between the arts, of meeting the creativity of our young people, of zipper between the training paths and professionalism. Finally, as far as the lyric-symphonic foundations are concerned, the Minister is well aware of the importance of the 5 Star Movement. I am particularly pleased that an amendment has been adopted - for once Parliament has recognised the goodness of a proposal - for the revision of the methods of selecting the figures at the top of these foundations, which have responsibility for the economic, artistic and organisational management of these foundations; criteria that will have to go more and more towards the transparency of selection procedures, towards merit - the right people in the right place - and the absence of conflict of interest. Beware, colleagues: the conflict of interest is a cancer that affects not only certain sectors, but also culture, unexpectedly. It is therefore good that this amendment has passed. In the same way, since we are confirming the delegation criteria already provided for in the 2017 show code, I hope that finally we will arrive at the implementing decrees so as not to reconfirm certain positions that have not distinguished themselves on merit in those roles. President, allow me to conclude with the things to do: approve this provision to the House without any impediment; monitor the enactment of the implementing decrees so that this text does not remain a book of dreams closed in a drawer, like the code of the show of 2017. And then, ladies and gentlemen, we must all work hard not to let Roberto Bolle's cry of sorrow fall into the void in the Chamber of Deputies, who has returned us a photograph of the world of dance that is not up to the fame of this country in this art, which is not up to what dance and lyrics give us every day in terms of unparalleled business cards in the world in every sector. [[Applause]] So, Minister and colleagues, we must give this country job opportunities for dancers, aim at the stabilisation of the dancing bodies, give impetus to the start-ups of young dancers. We must do everything we can to ensure that that cry does not remain unheard. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u101	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u104	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 May, ten years will have passed since the first strong earthquake that struck Emilia and part of Lombardy and Veneto. It was the beginning of a long seismic swarm, begun that night on May 20 at 4,03 pm, with the magnitude 5.9 shock lasting 136 seconds, and epicenter in the Municipality of Finale Emilia, in the province of Modena. On May 29, then, at 9 a.m. there was a new very strong shock, of magnitude 5.8, with epicenter among the Municipalities of Mirandola, Medolla and San Felice sul Panaro. On the same day three other shocks: one at 12:55 a.m. of magnitude 5.5, one at 13 a.m. of magnitude 5 and another shake at magnitude 4.9. These strong shocks occurred during a seismic swarm with minor shocks, but always felt by the population; swarms continued, for many days, until late June, creating fear and anxiety throughout the population. 27 were the victims, mostly employees of companies destroyed by the shocks that occurred on the morning of the working day of 29 May. It was, fortunately, possible to evacuate all the schools in the morning of May 29, saving children and young people from the shocks that took place at 1 p.m. on the same day. The school year for them ended that day, fortunately without harm to the people who studied and worked in schools. The population affected, despite fear, anxiety about constant shocks, desolation over having lost loved ones, having to leave their homes and suspend their productive activities, has, however, reacted strongly - as it is in the nature of our people - to give first of all mutual help to anyone who needs it. In the countries most affected the strength of the communities was evident and immediately there was organized to provide primary support, meals and beds. Civil Protection and volunteering have done and given a great deal: materials and affection. The tents hosted the summer camps and also the school activity, which resumed in September. The reconstruction began immediately, with the promise to finish soon. After ten years, much of the private reconstruction has been done, as far as companies and homes are concerned, but it would be a mistake to think that it is over. By choice of the Commissioner for Reconstruction, it was preferable to speed up the easiest practices and get them out of the way. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u105	Colleagues, three minutes, when you are in six subscribers talking, there are already too many.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u108	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be present today in the relay that, as Members of Parliament, we have promoted to bring Italian and international attention to the situation of women in Afghanistan. During this period the attention is clearly catalysed by the Russian-Ukrainian conflict and by what is atrocious happening to women there. In the meantime, however, unacceptable things also happen in Afghanistan. On 7 May the Taliban Government extended the burqa obligation for women in all public places. The news itself may not be surprising. In Taliban rhetoric, the particular aggression against women and their rights could be said to have already been written in fundamentalist thinking and practices: closure of women's schools, prohibition of access to jobs, prohibition of travelling alone. In the decree issued it is stated that women must veil themselves in order not to provoke men not belonging to their families, who do not have an important external task and different from their own home, where they should remain. For those who wish to disobey, there are serious sanctions and also prison. Despite this, despite the imprisonments, arrests, repression and violence perpetrated against those women, demonstrations do not stop. The desire for freedom and social redemption does not stop. The resistance of women remains strong and influences the way of thinking and acting also of many men who are not recognized in this radical interpretation of Sharia. Supporting Afghan women in their struggles and demands is an absolute imperative. Other colleagues in their speeches have recalled and recalled the many institutional initiatives at different levels, and these must multiply more and more. We must insist that opportunities and ways of emergence be found for women who want to study, work, do sports, music and show; in a word: for women who want to live. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u111	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should have participated together with my colleague Nazario Pagano, who is chairman of the Parliamentary Friendship Group with Poland, in an important demonstration in Montecassino to remember - today is 18 May - that terrible battle that was the break-up on that day of the Gustav line. We want to remember all the fallen, but also another episode. Before that, my colleague, Mrs Montevecchi, rightly spoke of violence against women, the violence that is taking place in Afghanistan; I would like to remind you of what is happening in Ukraine. But I would like to remind you that just on May 18, 1944, there was one of the most terrible and merciless violence that struck the women of the Ciociaria: there were rapes by the goumiers, soldiers of Moroccan nationality incorporated in the French army. It was 60,000 rapes on those days - not a small amount - and against not only women, but also children, and old ones. It was a huge tragedy. Once the Gustav line was broken, there was no peace, it was a real hell. I have the pleasure of remembering in this House, with the solemnity that I believe deserves that event, that there are some draft laws to remember that important date. Colleagues, that terrible event cost the lives of many, many: I want to remember among all also Don Alberto Terrilli who, in an attempt to defend two women, was tied to a tree, raped all night and died after two weeks in hospital for the violence suffered. Violence was even committed against five - year - old girls and some women were crucified. But the number we have to remember is that of 70,000 rapes: a figure that cannot go unnoticed. We can't erase history and we can't rip pages of history. We must remember them so that such events do not happen again. Today we remember in this House that terrible and tragic moment, and I hope that it will be remembered in future in schools of all order and rank, because these are crimes that cannot be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u114	Mr Mollame (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, I would like to speak so that a solution can be found as quickly as possible to a problem which concerns the islands of Pantelleria and Lampedusa. From 1 July it is already impossible to book flights connecting Sicily and these islands; the extension procedures or those for a new European ban still in gestation would still be under way. At the gates of the tourist season, the high one, you understand how much this can mean to all those small businesses living on tourism in those islands, and what it means also to all their residents. If not enough two years of pandemic, which have exhausted all the companies of these realities, ENAC and the Sicilian Region are already doing their part. The National Government is one of the clients as well as guarantor of territorial continuity, and operates through the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. And it is to this Ministry that I appeal. It's already late, there's no more time. It is not possible to exceed the middle of May without it being possible for anyone to make programmes from 1 July. We are also in an emergency situation for the airline's staff who are currently working on the routes in question, which is likely to be terminated. In December, there was talk of reducing the cost of the ticket for residents, special facilities for categories and so on. Today we need a new allocation for territorial continuity and a solution for increasing the cost of fuel, which is the real problem. We're running out of time. The damage, from the point of view of the planning of the tourist season, is already happening if the tour operators are not put in the possibility to make proposals from 1 July. It is necessary that as soon as possible, already in the next few days, they sit at an ENAC table, Sicilian Region and Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility in order to work and experience all the procedures in order to find an immediate solution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u117	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I rise after the vote on the delegation law on the protection of entertainment workers. It is a random connection, since today it is a year since the death of Franco Battiato, Catania and eclectic figure: singer-songwriter, writer, poet, painter and philosopher. I would like to highlight and exalt this moment, because at international level its extro is recognized. On 20 May, in Sydney, a concert will be held in his honour organized by an Italian diplomat, director of the Italian Institute of Culture. In the incipit of the famous and well-known song "La cura" Franco Battiato wrote: I will protect you from the fears of the hypochondria, from the disturbances that you will encounter on your way from today, from the injustices and deceptions of your time. It seems to be a very topical text, given the pandemic period that we have been through and the war that involves us relatively. I would like to highlight how, also in this case, an artist like Franco Battiato, who distinguished himself for a gradual passage, with different and experimental styles of music, author, progressive rock at the forefront and with grafts also of new waves and classic incursions, even arabing, had this ability also in his Milo, in the province of Catania, in the so-called Mungibeddu, our volcano, which was the privileged place for creative activity. I would like to exalt, from a human point of view, his ability to process without frenzy in a world like today. On May 22nd, in Catania, will be dedicated to the seafront of Ognina, as proposed a week after his death by the administration of the territory, and will be revealed a plaque in Piazza Europa.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u120	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I rise to ask the Government for a reply to Question 303048, which would be important given the issue it raises, namely Lot 2.5 of the completion of the Asti-Cuneo in the section of the Alba ring road. This section - which had already been foreseen in the 2012 agreements that, in place of the original hypothesis of the tunnel that passed under the Tanaro, would use the current ring road strengthening and putting it substantially in safety - from the last voices that are circulating seems to be included as such on the highway. This - as I already said in the question - would risk overturning all the ordinary traffic that now passes on the ring road, on the city of Alba, not to go to payment, with the risk of having waited for twenty-five years for the completion of the highway and find, to completion, the entanglement of all the traffic concerning the city of Alba and the surrounding territories. With the question we asked the Ministry for further information and answers on this subject. We ask that the hypothesis - as is the case in many French surroundings - of a motorway that arrives near the city; the section of the ring road is not highway and then the highway starts again. Otherwise, the risk is to switch from a 25-year wait on the motorway to an unmanageable complexity of traffic; moreover, much of the traffic that circulates on that area could not in any case pass on the highway, because the means are not enabled to this passage, with the risk of really complicate the situation. We call for an answer and, above all, for careful consideration to be given to the choices to be made in this section of the road. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u121	Senator Taricco, I have been waiting for twenty-five years for that stretch of road, passing us often and knowing him well.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-434.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 19 May, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.57.
