ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, it is with sentiments of affection that I wish to recall Senator Valerio Carrara, who suddenly disappeared on February 9th. Originally from Oltre Il Colle, a small town in the Province of Bergamo between Val Seriana and Val Serina, Valerio Ferrara was a tireless protagonist of the social, economic and institutional life of those territories, as well as a sensitive interpreter and a tireless defender of their peculiarities. Person of lively intelligence, entrepreneur, mayor, local administrator and member of this Assembly for three legislatures, Valerio Carrara has always lived his every experience in institutions and society with great passion, freedom of thought, concreteness and pragmatism. His character was open and dialogue, I remember it well, but for this reason no less battling. His respect for the institutions, especially the parliamentary institutions, was strong, as he also demonstrated by presiding, with a high sense of responsibility, impartiality, competence and rigour, at the Defence Commission of the Senate during the 14th legislature, gaining the esteem and appreciation of all the parliamentary groups. Great attention was paid to every detail of the parliamentary activity: from the writing of the amendments to the care of the interventions, always punctual and effective. With Valerio Carrara we lose a friend, a colleague of many parliamentary battles, a politician with a strong human trait, polite, ironic and with an unshakable faith in his ideas, but always ready for confrontation and constructive dialectic, without preconceptions or prejudices, in the interest of citizens and territories. In renewing my heartfelt embrace and closeness to my wife Ornella, to the children, to the grandchildren and to the family of Senator Valerio Carrara, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u7	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). I thank President Casellati for the closeness he expressed on his behalf and on behalf of the whole Senate and all the senators, even at the moment of the suffrage and the greeting we gave to Senator Carrara last Saturday. Senator Valerio Carrara was a man of the institutions and a man of the people, a man of the people and for the people, a man dedicated to listening and work, a senator and a mayor, legislator and administrator, Vale for friends (we all called him that). Graduated in pharmacy, holder of various activities, senator for three legislatures, from 2001 to 2013, from 2004 in Forza Italia and in the People of Freedom. It was also, as has been mentioned, President of the Senate Defence Commission, a great source of pride, a position that he assumed with a great sense of responsibility and seriousness. Very esteemed mayor for two mandates of his native country and life, that Beyond Il Colle we mentioned, a mountain territory. He loved his Valerio mountains, loved our Bergamo valleys and for his territory he fought with commitment and determination. He loved life, he was a passionate and passionate man, full of enthusiasm, optimism, extremely ironic, brilliant intelligence, always ready to listen, always ready for sharing and advice. Practical and concrete like all mountain people, with a great heart and a natural propensity for more direct sociality. When I was called last week to give me the bad news of his disappearance, I was really speechless, deeply sorry, also because he was young, Senator Carrara. The displeasure was great precisely because Valerio was the emblem of vitality and love for life. As I said, he was passionate and passionate, in love with his mountain, his beautiful country, he has always distinguished himself for his love for his land. Passionate about his horses, he always spoke to me about the sense of freedom and communion with the nature he felt in riding both his horses and his bike. Passionate mountain hunter, where you become guardians of the woods, and in love with his family, his Ornella, his sons Giorgio and Alessandro, his daughters-in-law and his grandchildren. I therefore greet from Bergamasca his Oltre Il Colle between Val Brembana, Val Serina and Val Seriana and greet a man passionate about politics, the beautiful one, that of commitment, that of service, to represent the demands of those small municipalities that are the heart of the country, all too often forgotten. Beyond the loss, for the institutions and for politics, of such a brilliant and generous man, there is the displeasure of having lost a dear friend, of which I keep so many memories. I greet you, Valerio, in this House, on behalf of all the colleagues who have met you and on behalf of the whole territory of Bergamo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u10	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, after the memory of Senator Carrara, so well expressed by you, President, and Senator Gallone, I would like to add a few words. Valerio has been a senator for three legislatures and has been in this Chamber for twelve years. He arrived unexpectedly, but he was able to interpret very well his role as representative of the citizens in general and of his territory, to which he was so attached, as has been said just now. He has always taken with detachment, irony and even self-irony the successes. The fact of having reached the role of senator, for a person who has always had the passion of politics and the administration of its territory, was certainly a great satisfaction, as well as being elected for two other legislatures and becoming president of the Defence Commission, which led with capacity and balance. They were certainly great successes, but they did not change his smiling and conscious attitude of the transitoryness of all the roles held. In the same way, he was able to deal with the fierce criticisms that were also made in one of the many political conflicts that often happen, as it should be, in this House. I remember, as she said earlier, her passion for nature, for its mountains, for its municipality, when he was elected mayor with a large majority of votes. I remember well that he told me several times, having passed through medical and surgical events in similar times: After what I've been through (I've been saved by surgeons in an almost miraculous way), everything that comes after me is a great gift and I'm trying to enjoy it, to make it the best in my life. Hence his love for his family, for his mountains and for nature, in which he tried to immerse himself as much as possible; moreover, living in a mountain country was easier. I've always felt it with great serenity and awareness that he really had to savor these years of his life, no matter how long they were. Unfortunately, they ended a few days ago, but we know that we had, as a friend and colleague, a real person, a person who was able to express the sentiment of so many of our fellow citizens who we have the honour to represent here. On behalf of the whole Group of the Brothers of Italy, I offer my condolences to his family, to whom he was so attached, remembering him with affection and bearing in our hearts his beautiful memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u13	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Madam President, it would have been seventy-one years in a few days, Valerio Carrara, a colleague of numerous legislators who, as has been well mentioned, has long held the office of mayor of his city, Oltre Il Colle, in Bergamo. Unfortunately, after a few days of hospitalization due to health problems, he was suddenly caught by a heart attack that tore him away from his loved ones and unfortunately did not make it. Valerio was a point of reference for many; he loved deeply his land and his community, demonstrating how politics can be born and developed precisely from the small villages, without ever forgetting the needs of the communities from which we come, even if the political commitment then develops on a national level. I would like to remember him for his commitment, enthusiasm and fervent passion for hunting and for the mountains, which have made him the protagonist of many battles in favour of the hunting world. A genuine and authoritative representative of the Bergamo community, but also an authentic and authoritative representative of the national institutions. It has always been spent on a number of mountain development projects. On behalf of the Gruppo Italia Viva-PSI, I cling to the family, to his loved ones and to his community for the loss of a man and a passionate colleague dedicated to the common good.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u16	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, thank you for your words to remind Senator Carrara. My memory of Senator Carrara is that of an intelligent, ironic man, in love with his family, with a great passion for hunting, for his horses, and deeply linked to his, our mountains and the land of Bergamo. Valerio Carrara was born in 1951, graduated in pharmacy and worked as an entrepreneur, owner of various commercial activities in Oltre Il Colle, his country, his community. His commitment to the institutions began at an early age, on the impulse of his son who convinced him to run for the 2001 general election in the Senatorial College of Albino. Carrara was elected and chose to join the Mixed Group as the unique exponent of the Lombard Territory Movement. In 2004, as Senator Gallone recalled, she joined the Forza Italia Group and in Forza Italia before and in the PDL then made her commitment in the subsequent legislatures until the presidency of the Senate Defence Commission. In addition to the parliamentary commitment, Valerio Carrara's experience deserves to be remembered the administrative commitment to the service of his native country and his community. The premature disappearance of Senator Carrara was a significant loss for the political and institutional world, in particular for Bergamo's politics and institutions. The thought of the Democratic Party Group goes to the family of Senator Carrara and to all the people who have known him and who have collaborated with him in these long years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u19	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Valerio Carrara was a man tied to his land, to Val Brembana, to his country, Oltre Il Colle, where he was mayor for ten years. In the thirteen years of parliamentary activity he has never spared himself in doing the good of people with passion and in carrying forward the demands of the mountain and its great passion, hunting. The hunting had made him one of the most authoritative references of the hunting world in Parliament; not surprisingly, he was also provincial councillor of the Italian Federation of hunting. At the same time as his years in the Senate, he lived the role of mayor of Oltre Il Colle, where he was elected for two terms, until 2017, a position that made him stay close to the local people and administrators, without forgetting its origins, those of the mountain. He was a lover of nature, open spaces, horses, sports and in particular enduro, a very strong tradition in the Bergamo valleys. For its territory, for the development of the Val Brembana, for years it tried in vain to urge the reopening of the casino of San Pellegrino, just to revive the tourism in the valley. He leaves us a man from the mountain, a man from his valley, a man who has never lost his roots and who saw in politics the opportunity to give voice to the territory. The entire League Group and especially the Bergamo senators join in the moment of the family's pain. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr President, for your kind words, and I would also like to join in the words of all my fellow Members who have spoken before me. I think Valerio will remain a very important man for Bergamo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u20	The next item is the debate on the document: In the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code (defamation by means of the press), transmitted by the Court of Rome on 17 March 2021. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Augussori, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written, printed and distributed report, already in the hands of my colleagues, with the conclusions you have just drawn. 9:52 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u22	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u23	Mr President, I asked to speak on Senator Giarrusso's case only to highlight the anomaly that is taking place in this House. We are here today discussing whether to apply Article 68 of the Constitution or not to the story of Senator Giarrusso, but the person concerned, Senator Giarrusso, cannot be present in this House, cannot tell you what he thinks, cannot make a report to defend himself. All this because he doesn't have the super green pass. It is thought that the accused can enter the classrooms of justice without having the super green pass; instead, in this House, which should be the temple of dialectic and opposing opinions, when it is discussed whether or not to send Senator Giarrusso to trial, Senator Giarrusso is not allowed in. Who does not see that this is an intolerable torsion, that should shame us all, is in bad faith. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u24	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u27	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, the Constitutional Court, by implementing, inter alia, the interpretative guidelines of the European Court of Human Rights, considers that the prerogative of indispensability within the meaning of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution can be defined in cases where the external declaration - that is, extramoenia - of the MEP in the press or on social media is intended to disseminate opinions expressed in the course of parliamentary activities. The parameter on which the Constitutional Court evaluates the existence or not of the functional link is the substantial correspondence of content between the declaration expressed outside the Parliamentary Halls and the one pronounced inside, with the clarification that a precise terminological coincidence between the two acts is not necessary (extra moenia and intra moenia), being sufficient a substantial correspondence of content. These considerations are correctly mentioned in the report, but then appear to be forgotten in the conclusions. [[Brusio.]] Mr. President, I can't even feel myself, so if you could try to...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u28	President Grasso, you have presided many times and you know that the real attention determines who speaks.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u29	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). I know, but I can't hear what I'm saying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Anyway, I'll help you. Please pay attention to President Grasso. Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). I don't want the attention. I just want them to lower their tones. I know you can't expect attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Lower your tones, colleagues. Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). These considerations on the interpretation of the constitutional rule are correctly mentioned in the report but forgotten in the conclusions. In fact, in this case, the act extra moenia is a Facebook post of 24 August 2020 and intra moenia is a question of the following 10 September. Even if there is a substantial correspondence of content, it is clear that the internal declaration, that is to say the question, is motivated by the intention to make use of the indisputability and not already the intervention on social reasons, then, by the intent to disseminate a parliamentary act done. With this explanatory statement I declare the vote against the rapporteur's final proposal by Liberi and Uguali-Ecosolidali. I hope that at least the conclusions have been heard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u30	I followed her carefully, President, and I think whoever wanted could have done it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u33	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Senator Giarrusso is being asked to respond for statements published on a Facebook page. In this case, of course, the temporal link and the factual link between the intra-moenia and extra-moenia declarations do not necessarily appear to be attested. This means that the prerogative under Article 68 of the Constitution cannot operate fully, as provided for on the basis of the elements identified by the Constitutional Court in relation to the application of the article. Therefore, the Movimento 5 Stars will vote against the conclusions of the Junta report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u36	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, sharing its content. I shall confine myself to two notes, the first of which is irrelevant to the content of what we are examining. What Senator Crucioli said must be taken seriously. That Senator Giarrusso cannot participate, as always, in a discussion that concerns him personally on matters completely unrelated to parliamentary life is a very problematic fact and those who vote on certain measures should ask questions that are then almost inevitably reflected on the dynamics of the Senate. [[Applause]] Let me turn to the second point. We are voting in favour of indisputability because it is a prerogative of Parliament to defend not the person and not even the individual senator, but the institutions. It is precisely for this reason, however, that those who hold parliamentary posts should avoid statements, such as the one we are dealing with, which have undoubtedly unjustly offended people and their families. Therefore, the sense of responsibility must be remembered. We must remember that we have rightful prerogatives as Members of Parliament, but this must lead to great caution before making personal attacks against which we, in order to protect the institutions, avoid the parliamentary judicial consequences that can be very onerous. However - I repeat - the sense of responsibility must be recalled when certain statements are made. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u37	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u38	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 3, which contains: Report of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the applicability of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of civil proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso pending before the Tribunal of Power. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the fact, for which Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso received an act of summons pending at the tribunal of Potenza, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of incontrovertibility referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u39	Mr President, I would ask you to take me back to the written report which is already on the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u40	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u43	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, since this House does not have the opportunity to fully know the facts at issue, I would like to quote the content of an interview by Senator Giarrusso with the newspaper The subtitle of the interview reads "Basentini, former head of the DAP, had met in prison the boss Michele Zagaria. Right after that, the mobsters were released. What did they say? The interview sparks the idea that the release of Zagaria and another 40 high-level representatives of organised crime would be determined by the behaviour of the DAP leader, Dr. Basentini, who would guarantee this release by issuing appropriate administrative measures. We know that everything happened at the beginning of the pandemic due to the spread of the Covid-19 and that therefore the facts certainly went differently. It is also stressed that Senator Giarrusso did not mention a fact that the meeting with Zagaria of the head of the DAP would last only a few minutes, would take place in the presence of several people, all identified, according to the practice held on the occasion of the visits in prison of the head of the DAP. The meetings took place with many prisoners and have nothing to do with the measures that were then taken. I therefore see no functional link with the statements made in the various branches of Parliament, both in the Anti-Mafia Commission and in this House, in which we are talking about the riots in prison and the problem of the possible responsibility for the management of the prisons, which have nothing to do with the accusation against the head of the DAP who, after an interview with a 'andranghetist of rank, would then have taken measures in favour of Camorists and all those who were in the same conditions. In this respect, I see no functional link with parliamentary activity. That is why I am announcing my group's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u46	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in this case too, there seems to be a functional link between intra-moenia and extra-moenia which is extremely flexible. In fact, the reference to parliamentary activity against so-called businesses in general does not seem sufficient to justify claims via social networks, which could constitute a crime of defamation by means of the press. The same plaintiff does not appear to be mentioned in the parliamentary acts of Senator Giarrusso. Finally, the temporal link between the published posts and the parliamentary acts does not appear to exist, considering that the questions referred to are dated from 2014 to 2016. For these reasons I declare the vote against the Movimento 5 Stars vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u47	I would point out that the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities is that the fact, for which Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso received an act of summons pending at the tribunal of Potenza, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, the constitutional guarantee of incontrovertibility as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies in this case. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 3, which contains: Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the applicability of article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso n. 2600/2018 RGNR Mod. 21 pending before the Court of Catania. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the fact, for which Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso received a decree of direct summons pending before the Court of Catania, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to refer to the content of the report you mentioned. I do not wish to stress that, of the three cases dealt with today, this is probably the most straightforward, so we insist on the adoption of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u50	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u53	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I would also like the House - at least for those who want to pay attention - to follow the facts behind the proceedings concerning Senator Giarrusso. He had published on Facebook some offensive posts of Mrs. Debora Borgese's reputation, containing the following words: "Think that a well-known Catalan poisonous language, despite its pseudo-revolutionary surname, tell me is the descendant of Madame de Pompadour, "A fake follower of Robespierre and a true salaried by Brothers of Italy. At the mere mention of her, misfortunes happen,...Beware of the bad luck, in response to a comment in defense of Mrs. Borgese. Then on 21 January 2018 another cartoon was published against the lady with the following caption: In the meantime, Madame Pompadour continues to drool bile. I don't know what this has to do with parliamentary activity. I do not see how there can be any connection between the mafia infiltration activity in local authorities with free insults and insults to a citizen who has rightly filed a complaint for defamation. From this point of view, I therefore believe that these statements absolutely cannot be linked to parliamentary activity. These are offensive expressions, metaphors with characters from French history, the accusation of bringing bad luck. While I consider the issue of mafia infiltrations in local authorities of enormous importance, I believe that we should all agree on the principle that political battles and the defence of legality should remain on a particularly hard level of confrontation, but not end in this way. I would not, under any circumstances, wish that the constitutional protection of the Member should be exchanged with a driver's license to be able to say anything and offend anyone. With these reasons I declare the vote against the rapporteur's final proposal by Liberi and Uguali-Ecosolidali.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u56	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as I said earlier, there is no such thing as a requirement for the application of Article 68, because we are outside what could be considered a political dynamic. I therefore repeat the reasons and declare the vote against the report of the Junta by Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u57	I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to consider that the fact, for which Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso has received a decree of direct summons pending before the Court of Catania, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u58	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 5, which contains: Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the applicability of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Stefano Candiani No 15606/2019 RGNR - No 1212/2020 RG GIP pending at the Court of Catania. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Candiani constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the working rapporteur, Senator Gasparri, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u59	Mr President, I shall say a few words. Senator Balboni, for his other commitment to his parliamentary activity, is not in the Chamber, therefore, as President of the Council I am replacing him. I shall return to the written report, which has been filed. As you, in a nutshell, recalled, Senator Candiani, carrying out a parliamentary inspection in a neighborhood of the city of Catania, realized this visit in a video of Facebook in which he denounced the degradation of the neighborhood and a whole series of problems of the territory, moreover at the time as - I believe - regional commissioner of the League in Sicily. One association considered that its claims were to be judged defamatory and damaging of a series of norms. The Junta, having completed the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, after hearing Senator Candiani, found that there were questions on issues related to the degradation of neighborhoods and territories to which he had gone. Beyond the coincidence of the words, but also in the context of the time - the President knows these matters for having dealt with it as President of the Council - the Junta considered that that video was essentially coinciding with the parliamentary activities that Senator Candiani had carried out through questions and therefore considered that he had legitimately expressed opinions that could not be prosecuted. That is why the Junta considered recognizing the claims. Senator Balboni's report, which has been filed, then comes to this conclusion and the Junta has proposed to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Candiani constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypotheses referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u60	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u63	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, Senator Candiani has published on his Facebook page a video that has generated a series of comments that have led him to contest the crime of propaganda and incitement to delinquere for reasons of racial discrimination, but the prosecutor has asked for the dismissal and the judge of the preliminary investigations has considered to proceed with what is termed the forced indictment in jargon, assimilating the conduct of Candiani to the conducts held by Mr Borghezio, considering that Candiani has manifested his ideas outside the parliamentary seat and beyond the limits of the unindicability. However, I must say that in this case, in addition to the parliamentary questions of Senator Candiani on the subject of immigration, and all the extra-moenia statements that are in this case covered by the prerogative of indispensability, there is a substantial coincidence of content, Senator Candiani has limited himself to a video that has given an account of a dramatic situation in the San Berillo district of Catania, in which there was this phenomenon of immigration and has not expressed opinions, but has only commented on the situation. I therefore believe that, apart from the legitimate different political views on the phenomenon of immigration, after having seen the footage at the origin of the criminal proceedings, which has an objective content, there are the extremes for the indispensability and therefore pre-announce the vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u66	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, I do not agree with Senator Grasso in this case. As we just heard, Senator Candiani shot a video in the San Berillo neighborhood in Catania that he published in July 2018 on the Facebook profile and while shooting the video commented that the neighborhood was in a state of degradation, in the hands of illegal immigrants dedicated to all types of crime. These are statements made without knowing the actual alleged illegality and clandestineness of all the people present, who instead moved in a completely legitimate situation. In the video you can't see everything Candiani says by referring to clandestineness and crime. Moreover, these statements have generated on Facebook, as could be expected, a series of manifestations of racial hatred and discrimination. Now, the rapporteur proposes to grant the prerogative of indistinguishability because he sees the requirement of the functional link between the statement made in the video and a question signed also by Senator Candiani. The parliamentary question to which the rapporteur refers concerns immigration, but in general terms it refers to the national and non-national plan. Therefore the functional link between the intra-moenia act, decidedly generic, and the extra-moenia act, instead decidedly localistic (because it indicates specific and determined actions) turns out to be extremely flexible. Moreover, I must point out - as I said - that there is no consistency between the statements expressed in the video by Senator Candiani and what the images show, since the context of the video subjects is absolutely ordinary and legitimate. Therefore, there is not even that flexible functional link suggested by the rapporteur for the application of prerogatives. A lot of synthesizes: I am not saying this only, but the Constitutional Court highlights it and often clarifies it, for example in judgment No 144 of 2015, according to which a simple thematic connection or partial content correspondence or a mere political context is not sufficient to grant the indisputability of the judiciary's judgment. To this picture, which is already clear in itself, the vision of Movimento is added, which refuses immunity granted at all costs, only because it is parliamentary, since in this case the link with the activity does not exist. I'm going to the conclusions. Briefly: do you want to grant the indispensible? Well, let's do it, but let's do it only in high, exceptional, important cases, not in this, so as to respect the original project of our constituent Fathers. Let us not degenerate the Constitution; this ancient constitutional institution today, as it has been treated, is reduced to an odious privilege, typical of those who believe that they are superior to ordinary citizens. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement does not grant immunity and believes that this case should be clarified and resolved before the judiciary. Thus I announce the contrary vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you very much for this learned disquisition.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u69	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I take the floor to briefly express the vote in favour of the Fratelli d'Italia Group on the rapporteur's proposal, adding one aspect. In the order with which the judge for preliminary investigations rejected the request to dismiss the prosecutor (made already abnormal in itself) comes in some way, albeit in an unclear and explicit way, used the fact that, in the comments to what Senator Candiani posted on Facebook, there have been expressions of hatred and so on. Well, I would say that we must keep a clear distinction between what the parliamentarians say (parliamentary or non-parliamentary) and the reactions that this can provoke from those who follow this social media, because we know that in social media it is sometimes enough simply to say something (good morning to all) to bring in the most weird, exaggerated and exacerbated comments. Therefore, this division must absolutely be preserved, which cannot lead to consequences; I am referring to what others comment on what one says. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u70	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Candiani constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u71	The next item is the debate on the document: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Mr Carlo Amedeo Giovanardi for the offences referred to in Articles 81, paragraph, 110, 326, 338, 61, 2 and 9, 336 and 341- bis of the Criminal Code (competition in crimes of revelation and use of office secrets, of violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body or to its individual members, of violence or threat to a public officer and of outrage to an official), transmitted by the Tribunal of Modena on 18 January 2021. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that the statements made by Carlo Amedeo Giovanardi, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pillon, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u72	Mr President, with your agreement, I shall return to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u73	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u76	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, initially in Junta the rapporteur was Senator Durnwalder, then replaced by Senator Pillon because his proposal did not find agreement. Well, Senator Durnwalder's report was shared by me, while Senator Pillon's current report has the effect of extending - in a dangerous way, I would add - the constitutional discipline of Article 68 to conducts that have nothing to do with the legitimate freedom of opinion linked to the parliamentary mandate. In fact, I do not see how the revelation of the secret of office, contested by the tribunal of Modena to Senator Giovanardi, can be seen as an expressed opinion. The same applies to other disputed crimes, such as violence and threats to an administrative or judicial political body. How can it be considered that there is a functional link between the facts contested with these crimes and the opinions expressed by the Member in any case? For this reason, I declare the vote against Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Senator Pillon's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u79	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, as we have heard, Senator Giovanardi is accused of putting pressure on political and public official bodies and he is challenged by various crimes such as the revelation of the secret of office, the outrage and the threat, all to protect the company Bianchini, excluded from the white list (a company ended even under trial, so much so that some of its members have already been convicted). Senator Pillon's report is aimed at recognizing the prerogative of all these heavy charges. I would like to make a few comments, the first of which is that we are talking about the behaviour of the suspect and not the opinions expressed. Then, although I do not wish to go into the subject of the criminal importance of such hateful actions attributed to former Senator Giovanardi, I note that the rapporteur tends to confuse the protection provided for in Article 68 on the opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament with the actions put in place by a Member of Parliament. The rapporteur, therefore, in my opinion, wants to arbitrarily extend the prerogative of the unassailability of opinions to actions as well. We are at the complete disruption of Article 68 of the Constitution. Therefore, this approach leads to an arbitrary and unjustified extension of the scope of the irreconcilability of opinions to any conduct put in place by Members of Parliament. The prerogative of unindicability is to protect the parliamentarians reasonably against pressures on the parliamentarians that may exercise other powers of the State or groups of external power. Well, if you agree with me on this principle, you must admit that in this case it is Senator Giovanardi who puts undue pressure on the administrative and judicial activities of his territory. So it's the exact opposite. The Constitutional Court, in the matter of contempt and resistance to the public officer, resolving a conflict of attribution, in the sense of censoring the parliamentary resolution of insincability, has pointed out that the parliamentary prerogative cannot be extended until it includes insults and material behaviors qualified as resistance to the public officer. Then it is more than fair to extend this statement of the Constitutional Court to the threats. In this case, to the comfort of my reflection, the threats cannot in any way represent a functional link with the parliamentary activity carried out, since they are outside the parliamentary function, as they are directed directly to the competent bodies, in order to encourage them to modify the administrative measures unwelcome to the parliamentarians. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that this framework, which is already more than clear in itself, is complemented by the principle that the 5 Star Movement refuses to alter Article 68 of the Constitution. I confirm my opinion absolutely contrary to the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, Mr Pillon. In conclusion, I do not think we should grant Senator Giovanardi immunity. For all the reasons stated, I announce the vote against the Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u82	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret having arrived with these conclusions, which we are called upon to vote in this House today, after a thorough work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and a first report, by Senator Durnwalder, who correctly examined the matter and proposed, on three counts, that we should be exactly what the Constitution gives us, namely to express ourselves on the views and statements expressed. The offence of outrage is contested and we have made an assessment, voting favorably to grant the prerogative for the crime of outrage, recognizing the fact that, however, Senator Giovanardi's battles are known; however, there were substantial statements in this House. We have recognised the principle, even if the tones can be exundant and excessive, defending precisely the spirit and intention of the Constitutional Assembly to guarantee to the parliamentarians the activity of political denunciation and its battles. Obviously, it is not necessary to enter into the sharing or not of battles. This also applies to the previous case of Mr Candiani. It is obvious that we do not express ourselves by considering whether we share. The point is the prerogative, which guarantees freedom of political denunciation. Unfortunately, however, the other two heads of indictment dispute, I would like to remind you, material conducts which have nothing to do with an opinion and also contest the malice that accompanies such conducts. Then the point is one: can we decide to change the charge, without a trial being made? That's the point. I believe that we, not only cannot, but we must not. As we defend, in the separation of powers, non-invasiveness in an area that is that of the evaluation of those who write the laws and of those who express opinions, speculatively we cannot decide how a head of attribution should be written. This is a very important point for our credibility, for Parliament, and for the defence of the most important and essential prerogatives, and for the areas of politics and jurisdiction. Otherwise we lose the legitimacy to claim, rightly, the spaces of politics. Of course, it will be necessary to prove whether the conducts exist or not, but this is another discourse. With this operation we decide that there is no crime of revelation of office secrecy where a material conduct is contested, whether the accusation is founded or not. It is not for the Junta to write if the course is or is not there. I think she missed a chance. We would also have asked for a split vote. However, technically, since the conclusion is unique and not point-by-point, one cannot proceed in that way. I repeat, on one of the charges, we were quite in agreement and in favour of granting indisputability. She missed a chance. In conclusion, I would add that it would always be desirable for such decisions and bodies to strive for a unity of decisions, because they are not decisions in which we stand in formation, because they relate to the prerogatives of Parliament and each of us is here as a representative of Parliament and not as a representative of a political force. Therefore, with regret, the Democratic Party vote will be against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u85	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am sorry to have to say that it has neither taken much notice of the whole affair, of how it took place, of how it was born and of how it progressed at the various stages of the procedure, which led the Junta to express itself in order to recognize the inindacability, nor, above all, of the report that has been tabled today. The last part of the report, in fact, clarifies the issue in an absolutely explicit way, while before there is a series of references to jurisprudence that have obviously been taken in very little consideration by those who preceded me. It is said very clearly that it is believed to have established that, apart from the nomen iuris, everything contested by Senator Giovanardi in the charge is clearly related to a unified conduct, represented by several actions, all interdependent and all aimed at expressing opinions functional to the parliamentary activity. This is undeniable, so much so that we have also come to change that norm, thanks to the interventions, sometimes heavy, sometimes even outside the box, but never expired in the dileggio, in the slander, with infamous words, that would have - yes in that case - excluded the insincability, and always in the context of a proper performance of the parliamentary activity. Anyone who knows Senator Giovanardi knows perfectly well that he has a particular way of putting himself, but certainly he cannot be accused of having transcended and going beyond his prerogatives. In this regard we cannot fail to consider that the newspapers now speak of this matter in everyday life, as regards the various accusations that have been made; completely inconsistent accusations, as has been said. If you read the acts, in fact, you realize that there is nothing to support what has been said. Read the article published on February 15, that is yesterday: it is a case back to the honors of the chronicles, which indicates the urgency to remedy some apories of the Italian regulatory system. The various phases of this process, its genesis and its development are specified and recounted. Now, in the debate, we can and must say, here, that those accusations have been instrumentally brought upon Senator Giovanardi, because he has allowed himself to question the activity of someone who had an obligation to carry out certain tasks within the law. I read: "I was following the orders of the prefect, never revealed secrets to Giovanardi."This is what he has always maintained, that is, that he has never revealed anything to anyone. So what do we do? Do we have to send a Member to the trial simply because he has repeatedly expressed his opinion on those facts? To be clear, let's talk about the issue of Mafia certifications. This is simply because he has carried out his work in Parliament, with questions also specific to that case, and he is then accused in a procedure that has the headlights of public opinion always pointed at him. How can it be said that there was no interdependence between all the actions he put in place? I believe that the report is absolutely correct and that it must be accepted and approved, because in this way - take care - we do not protect Senator Giovanardi, but we continue to do what has been losing sight for some time, namely to protect the activities of parliamentarians, leaving them free, always in the canons of correctness and legality, to express their opinions in freedom. But that's not how it's going to happen. Following the genesis, the development and even the topicality of what is happening, it is evident that Senator Giovanardi did nothing wrong, but limited himself to expressing his opinion on specific cases. Therefore, I announce the vote in favour of Italia Viva - PSI to the proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u88	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-I-C-EU-NdC (NC)). Mr President, you spoke for the Mixed Group before me, Mr Grasso. On these issues we almost always differ with President Grasso because we have different principles and visions. I'm gonna come in and say something. It seems to me that Mr Rossomando's reasoning certainly has its own formal coherence. However, I would like to draw this House's attention to a number of substantive aspects of the problem. Article 68 of the Constitution was written to ensure that MEPs can conduct their own battles away from possible judicial repercussions. Of course, this was especially true of the battles that were fought in their own territory, at a time when all the Members of Parliament took care of a territory. Now we are not discussing Senator Giovanardi's opinions, nor is his style particularly pressing, as we know. However, I do not believe that we can stop at the formal aspect, because the charge of threat is fundamentally linked to some opinions that, if compared to those we have previously judged in relation to some posts on Facebook, frankly make people laugh. Above all, the accusation of disclosure of office secrecy refers to some information that Senator Giovanardi learned from a prefecture and reported in parliamentary acts, some of which were also signed by other colleagues. Frankly, this doesn't seem to me to be the disclosure of an office secret. And frankly it seems to me that if we did not adhere to what the Junta asks us, we would somehow argue that any Member of Parliament who carries out activities on the territory with particular fog and who defends - in a correct or wrong way - some situations of his own territory can be sent to trial. In my view, in this way we may formally adhere to Article 68 of the Constitution, but we would deny it in its substance. We also add one last aspect, although crucial from the point of view of our competence. As Mr Cucca pointed out, it was discovered with the time that Giovanardi was always right about the specific issues on the subject: the facts were recognized in the sense that he supported. I do not think that this is the decisive aspect, but this too must be taken into account. If we did not approve the document in our examination, we would establish the principle that anyone working on his own territory, bringing back his own battles to Parliament in the form of parliamentary acts, could be threatened to go to trial; basically a violation, perhaps not formal, but certainly substantial of Article 68. That is why we will vote in favour of the Junta's document. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u91	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I shall be very brief. It has been argued that these opinions are not expressed because among the accusations there is that of the threats aimed at disturbing the activity of an administrative body, in this case the prefect of Modena. Let's see what these threats would be because undoubtedly the threats, as the penal code describes them, are different from the expression of an opinion. What are the threats? According to the prosecutor, the pressure and threats would consist - as I read from the report - in the presentation of statements to the judicial authority combined with parliamentary actions. Is trusting the judicial authorities and exposing what is happening to them interpreted as a threat? I remember that the latter is the threat of unjust damage, otherwise even saying that it is being sued, would be a threat. An exposure to the judicial authority would be a threat of unjust harm and would imply the view of the judicial authority as a sort of armed gang at the service of Senator Giovanardi. The other threats would be those of parliamentary action. I would say that it is difficult to say what is more parliamentary than parliamentary action. Summing up: exposed to the judicial authority, parliamentary actions and the other threat would be a press conference in which the senator would say plague and horns of the prefect. You'll have the right to say it, then if you make false or unfounded accusations, it's another matter. A Member will have the right, however, not only to express his opinion, but to do so with a view to the judicial authorities and press conferences. If the press conference is considered to be a threat of unjust harm, as Senator Quagliariello said earlier, we could all be accused by doing a minimum of activity. A further threat would be specific press conferences to criticize the work of the prefecture. Of course, if there had been something unfair in these criticisms, such as slanders, it would be another matter. To think that exposing, making press conferences, parliamentary actions and exposed to the judicial authority, is a crime other than the crime of opinion, could lead very far and totally limit the activity of a Member who simply has to come here, vote, say nothing or say good of everyone and not work when he believes that there are unjust actions against, in this case, an important company with 100 employees. Among other things, in essence, it has been seen that Senator Giovanardi has always been right, even before the judicial authority. I therefore believe that there should be no doubt in voting, as the Brothers of Italy will do, in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, freeing the indisputability as expressed by Senator Giovanardi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u94	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, anyone who has been familiar with the parliamentary classrooms, I think, knows quite well how Senator Giovanardi's commitment and political battle is going to take place. I personally, after years of cooperation, find myself in a complete and total dissension. In this case, however, we are not called to give a judgment on the content of the political battles of Senator Giovanardi, which is as questionable as that of all of us; here we are called to defend or not of the principles, that is, the possibility or not of a Member of Parliament to make political battles on the territory not secretly, surreptitiously, so much so that these same political battles have had an echo in the speeches of Senator Giovanardi in the Parliamentary House. Dear colleagues, let us try to put aside our personal convictions. The battles of Senator Giovanardi can be questionable, the modalities can be more than questionable, the content can be at the limit, but objectively today we can not lend to not apply the constitutional guarantees to Senator Giovanardi, because this would end up being an exquisitely party assessment [[Applause]] I am going to withdraw from this and vote in favour of the decisions of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u95	I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity to decide by simultaneous ballot that the statements made by Carlo Amedeo Giovanardi, Senator at the time of the events, are opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u96	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 3, which contains: Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the applicability of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution in civil proceedings against Senator Gabriele Lanzi pending before the 18th Civil Section of the Tribunal of Rome The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the fact, for which Senator Gabriele Lanzi received an act of citation (No 32914/2021) pending at the 18th civil section of the Tribunal of Rome, does not concern opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, in the present case, the constitutional guarantee of incontrovertibility referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution does not apply.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u99	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to put to the attention of this House a situation which has arisen in relation to this case, because negotiations have reopened on the bonary composition of the matter. I would therefore ask the House for this item to be referred back to the agenda so that it can be defined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u100	Mr President, as rapporteur on this matter, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u103	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to announce that the Lega Group is opposed to the request for suspension. I would like to remind you that Senator Lanzi is accused of serious offense against a man - it does not matter that he is a Member of the other branch of Parliament - disabled, affected by his fragility. [[Applause]] We have been convinced by the words of Senator Gallicchio with his heartfelt appeal against the privilege of those who want to escape justice; therefore, we will follow the words of my colleague Gallicchio. We believe that Senator Lanzi must defend himself before a judge, with the civil code in his hand, with a book, and not with a checkbook. [[Applause]] Justice will take its course. What is clear today is political judgment, however; the justiceists who point their finger at all are the first to ask for protection when one of them is touched. [[Applause.]] Grandparents used to say, "Preaching well and rocketing badly." Finally, judgment as a man: mine is most disgusting for the issue of disability, but it is a personal matter. I leave it to each of you; go and read your papers, go and read the sentence in question and make an opinion about man. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u104	Colleagues, a proposal for referral has been made. We have heard a contrary opinion, I wonder if any senator would like to speak in favour of the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u107	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, it is clear that we cannot fail to share the comments made by Senator Augussori, who has highlighted a fact that is before everyone's eyes, but not today. We know that guaranteeing is applied to alternating currents by some and there is, instead, who in this House makes guaranteeing a reason for life, a modus operandi, a way of dealing with all situations. [[Applause]] We continue to believe in those principles which we have repeatedly recalled this morning; therefore, the political fact is certainly important and cannot be silenced. However, I have to say one thing: when you are in front of the judge and the same must examine the case, against a request for referral because - the sentence is always the usual - there are negotiations of friendly composition, the referral is also granted by the judge. Now, if we do not want to justify it in any other way, let us justify it with a reason for economics. If we succeed in finding a transactive solution, let us avoid that the Registry of the Criminal Court has to deal with all the tasks that exist when a trial is to be carried out. At least that is why I think it is right to allow the postponement to see if a transactive solution is found.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u108	Thank you, Senator Cucca, even if in any case the decision is not exhaustive; it will always be up to the court to do what it has to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u111	WORDS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, both in the work of the Junta and now that we are debating it in this House, it would be necessary for the Movimento 5 Stars to make clear, because the opposition to a constitutional provision such as Article 68 no longer stands. The constituent Fathers were certainly not out of their mind when they predicted this healing in favour of the parliamentarians, who must be free to express opinions in the exercise of their duties. I remind everyone and myself that that's just the point. As Senator Casini said earlier, the issue cannot touch on merit. We cannot go into the matter, as - alas - we do too many times, because judgment with regard to any statement made by a Member of Parliament must be independent of both the truthfulness and the seriousness of these statements. It is clear that, in a loyal relationship between parliamentary groups, within the Junta as in this House, this aspect must be clarified by the Movimento 5 Stars and in a certain sense must be emancipated from some dictations that have distinguished its political action to date, because the Constitution must be respected entirely and out of respect for colleagues who turn to the Junta and the Assembly to have a judgment, this must have impartial judges and who look at the subject in the fulfillment of the Junta and the Assembly. It is clear that everyone's wish today is that a dispute between two Members of Parliament may cease without the intervention of a court. For our part too, therefore, the proposal for a postponement so that we can reach a conciliation between the two Members can only be welcomed with positivity. What we want to stigmatize, however, is that we cannot find ourselves fighting every time over the terms of the matter: Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution must be applied and I ask my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars to make up their minds. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u112	I must say that the statements made by my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Star Group have, however, been respectful of their prerogatives: they can express their views on the proposals of the rapporteurs and their statements cannot be stigmatized in one way or another as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u115	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, we in the Fratelli d'Italia Group believe that when a recomposition is possible, politics must also take a step back. I think that what my colleague said just now corresponds to a real situation, which is not a way of taking time, which is why I believe that this House should unanimously allow some time because we know that in the courtrooms we sometimes end up deepening the gap, rather than reaching a composition, which is always desirable in these cases. There is, of course, the issue of inconvenience, but it is not a monopoly of anyone to give a judgment on this issue, when we enter into the matter we will give a judgment regardless of the same positions of the Group belonging to the colleague who today should be judged on the issue of inconveniability. I believe that common sense must always and in any case lead to a friendly and compositional solution and not to deepen the differences. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the request for a short postponement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u118	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to explain that the request to postpone it so that we could discuss it at the outset was absolutely shared. Listen to the words of my colleague from Movimento 5 Stars on the previous case, but I regret to have to remind you that you cannot morale others and then, when the case comes, ask for a postponement to find a solution. The rule must apply to everyone, otherwise it doesn't apply to anyone. [[Applause]] You missed a chance to shut up; so next time, shut up, which is better. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u119	Let's get to the conclusion. I don't think there's any more surgery. [[Comments]] So, calm and cold blood: it's a formal matter... [[Comments]] Who are you mad at? In the left hemisphere I'm seeing some movement; Let's stop. There is a call for a formal suspensive issue and the groups have spoken in favour or against. I put it to the vote, remembering that the suspensive proposal was put in relation to the item on the agenda for Senator Gabriele Lanzi. [[Comments.]] Senator Angrisani, thank you, we do not create an unnecessarily tense climate. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal to suspend the examination of the document in title. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u122	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few moments, because my speech is after the votes. I didn't want to do it before so as not to affect them, because the Senate must speak widely. However, I cannot fail to point out to the presidency of the Senate and to my colleagues that we have discussed various cases and that these were not objectively gigantic issues; the one concerning Senator Giovanardi was perhaps the most relevant. However, I would like to point out that, after the Junta had long spoken in favour of the application of Article 68 for Senator Candiani, as has been mentioned (I believe that President Grasso also mentioned it, legitimately), a forced charge against Senator Candiani has taken place. We are talking - I say this at the vote - about a video on Facebook and controversy; we are not talking about things of exceptional criminal gravity, we are always talking about opinions (disputable, but opinions). So, at the stage when the Junta had spoken and waited for the vote of the House, there was a forced indictment, as if it were a very serious case. There has been a queued discussion about Article 68, which sometimes likes and sometimes does not like it. But here too is the freedom of opinion on Article 68: there can also be freedom on Article 68 (the protection of opinions applies). I would like to point out to the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue concerns the Senate and the senators. So I ask first of all that the decisions taken by the Junta be assessed in a timely manner and then I ask for the defence of the Senate, because there has been a forced indictment. I must say that, even in the case of Senator Giovanardi, the exception that had been made by his defenders (related to the fact that the Junta had expressed itself in favour of his opinions and to ask for a suspension of the judgment) was ignored by the judiciary. This is something that limits the prerogatives and roles of the Senate. [[Applause]] I wanted to say this at the end of the sitting, for all our reflections of a legal, political and moral nature. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u125	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for drawing this House's attention. Mr President, tomorrow in Monte Urano, in the Fermano, it will be a day of mourning... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u126	I pray to those who must leave the Chamber to do so without noise, because Senator Verducci is remembering the death of 16-year-old Giuseppe Lenoci.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u127	Please, Senator, continue. Mr Verducci (PD). Thank you, Mr President. Tomorrow in Monte Urano, in Fermano, it will be a day of mourning and it will be for all of us, for the whole community of Marche, for the death of Giuseppe Lenoci, a boy of sixteen years. Diing at 16 is unacceptable. Always. I grieve at the pain of an entire territory, I cling to his parents, his brother, his family members, his teammates, his schoolmates, all those who knew him and loved him. Diing at 16 is unacceptable. Always. It is even more unacceptable to die at a place of work or at school or during a course of training and integration into work. Joseph died in a car accident; he was training to become a skilled worker. His death caused emotion all over the country and recalled that of Lorenzo, only a few days ago, struck by a beam during the last day of school-work alternation. They died different, different events, but Giuseppe and Lorenzo were united by the same destiny. It should not have happened; that destiny was not inevitable and should not have happened. Giuseppe and Lorenzo are part of a generation that wants work, that wants to study and that, through study and work, wants redemption and emancipation. A generation who wants to live their lives and realize their dreams. It is the generation most affected by the pandemic and even earlier by wrong policies. We have a duty to listen to this generation and to keep Joseph's feelings and hopes with him. The destiny of his generation is the destiny of our country's future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u128	Thank you, Senator Verducci. I would personally like to associate myself with your words with the words of all the men and women who die while working, who are in some way in common with this tragedy and the other that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u131	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I turn myself in: I do not believe in science. Instead, I think that the phrase "I believe in science" is the most eloquent testimony of the spiritual and cultural degradation that we all want to oppose here, I presume. It may be true that God died, as Woody Allen ironically recalls, but this is not a good reason to replace him with the CTS. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I don't believe in science, because my research work has been doubtful. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u132	I'm begging the senators to let the hemicycle go, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u133	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm the one who has to release the hemicycle as a senator? Can I have three minutes to intervene? Can I start over? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bagnai, I wasn't mad at you. In fact, I was trying to get her to talk quietly. Go ahead, Senator Bagnai. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Don't worry, my colleagues don't bother me. As they don't consider me, I don't consider them. I would like to make my point, thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). So I go back to saying that if I don't believe in science it's because my research work was exactly to doubt it, of course by scientific method. It is precisely by this method that I documented the effectiveness of vaccinations in my speech of 10 November 2021, referring to the general discussion on the extension of the Covid-19 pass. To be precise, since there were nine decrees on the pass, the intervention was in Decree-Law No 172 of 2021. Still in the same debate, however, I warned against the serious limitations that the reinforced pass showed; limits that were already evident at the time, because the scientific motivations had long been known. It was in fact known at least since July that immunity from vaccine has a short duration and that, therefore, the vaccinees can become infected as well as they can spread the virus. There have been many cases of outbreaks in protected environments, such as hospital wards or RSA. As a result, a measure that gave the illusion, unfortunately not the guarantee, of finding oneself among non-polluting people could only explode the contagions and for this reason I did not vote for it. The facts have conformed to logic. The peak of the cases was reached on 14 January 2022, at 177.514, almost exactly the quintuplo of the previous maximum, reached at 35.075 on 16 November 2020. My contribution to this debate is summed up in two sentences. The first: it is clear that the pass is a means that has failed with respect to its stated purpose, that of limiting the contagions, because it could not fail, encouraging careless behavior. The second is that it is appropriate to take note of this, in order to avoid any doubt that lets it pass, instead of being a means, is an end. I remember Amnesty International paying attention to our country and that the democracy index 2021 places us among the imperfect democracies, under Botswana. That is also why I hope that the end of the state of emergency will lead to the dissolution of the CTS, a CTS that has often misadvised the Government, risking undermining its authority, and of course the abolition of the Covid-19 pass, which in this context has no more reason to be, unless its aim is to establish a system of social credits and a capitalism of control contrary to freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u136	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, these days there has been a great deal of talk, often out of the question, about the superbonus 110%. President Draghi said: those who today thunder on the superbonus, who say that these frauds do not matter, that you have to go on the same, these are some of those who wrote the law and allowed to do jobs without checks. If we are in this situation, it is because a system has been built that provided for very few controls and if the superbonus today slows down it is for the seizures deliberated by the judiciary on fraudulent matters, for 2.3 billion, but of course the sums investigated are much higher. These are the words of the President of the Draghi Council. Franco, on the other hand, said it was a scam. The superbonus, in his opinion, would be one of the greatest scams that the Republic has ever seen, because it would be a norm - the Minister always says - that includes very few controls. Unfortunately for them, these opinions are not at all supported by the facts and data that the Revenue Agency presented to the Senate a few days ago, during the hearings for the examination of the decree-law support-b. These figures, which the Movimento 5 Stars have been asking for for a long time, say exactly the opposite of what they wrongly claim, President Draghi and Minister Franco. Indeed, the Revenue Agency has certified that fraud on superbonus 110% amounts to 3% of the total. [[Applause]] If you look at all the provisions to the superbonus alone, they amount to less than 1%. And this is precisely because the law is written so well and provides so many controls that it is very difficult to do fraud. The Revenue Agency also tells us that, instead, the fraud on the bonus facades amounts to 46 percent of the total; those on the ecobonus to 34 percent of the total; those on the bonus rental shops and shops to 9 percent of the total and, finally, those on the bonus on the earthquake to 8 percent of the total. Given these numbers, which are not opinions, but are incontrovertible data of the Revenue Agency, it is our duty and it is the duty of the Government not to block with continuous norms, which follow in a few days, the superbonus 110%, which instead had a decisive effect in the growth of the building sector, in crisis since 2008, has generated hundreds of thousands of jobs, has contributed significantly to the growth of GDP in 2021, is making our homes safer from an anti-seismic point of view and more energy efficient, has reduced the amounts of energy bills of those houses and, finally, is increasing the value of the houses of the citizens and therefore the heritage of the Italians. [[Applause]] We are convinced that it is our duty and duty to do everything in our power to ensure that fraud on other building bonuses is minimized as much as possible. The Movimento 5 Stars is working, through the submission of amendments, precisely in this sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u137	I confirm the goodness of the data you gave on the measure voted unanimously by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u140	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to take part in this House and, if you listen to us, Minister Patuanelli of what happened yesterday in the town of Testa di Lepre in Fiumicino: over 350 dairy farmers, in particular the representatives of cooperatives, have gathered to protest and, above all, to organize possible demonstrations. We are even talking about a lockdown and milking the milk and throwing it on the ground. Milk to the barn farmer is paid 0.39 cents per litre, when each of us buys it at the supermarket paying it in a scissors ranging from 1.50 to 1.80 euros. We are talking about crises, we are talking about increasing everything: we have increased fodder, soy has increased almost 50% compared to previous prices and farmers are hungry. We cannot think that our country, which lives in excellent food, neglects in such a shameful way the most important part of the supply chain, which are agricultural and dairy producers. I know a question time will take place in the House today. I would ask that this Government, which talks so much about aid, funds and support, should also be concerned with agriculture and money, possibly in the PNRR. I would also ask President Draghi to organize the general states of agriculture. We will shortly have a country completely abandoned in its rural and agricultural areas, in the areas where we have our productions of excellence. Agriculture in this country is now in a state of abandonment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am sure, Senator, that President Draghi will listen to you, but I am also speaking from a member of a majority party.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u143	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcomed with joy and satisfaction the proposal of the Campania Region Council and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy to bring Neapolitan espresso back into UNESCO's intangible heritage, as has already been the case for pizza. Coffee is not only a drink, a product and a productive sector, but it expresses a true culture, a rite, a tradition - let me say - all Neapolitan. A tradition so characteristic that it has given rise to real habits that can't be found elsewhere. Just think of the suspended coffee, to recognize a gesture of solidarity unique in the world, an identity value; or still the coffee of the consolation, when neighbors and relatives give coffee to console from the pain of a loss of a loved one. The Neapolitan coffee is the coffee of those who want to dedicate to themselves and others the pleasure of drinking together an emotion and is therefore in full title a drink of high social value and socialization. Behind a simple coffee there is a ritual, a process that goes from cultivation to processing, and then ends up on a table of a family, on the bar counter or in a cup of friendliness passed to the neighbor from the balcony. It is therefore, in full title, a philosophy of life. As everyone will know, Trieste had also submitted its own candidacy to the Ministry. I would like to point out that I am aware of the great importance of the coffee trade for the induced port of Trieste and the production activities of the North, but, since each country can submit only one proposal a year on the single topic and at a certain point there has been a clash between the supporters of the Neapolitan tradition and the great brands of roasting of the North, it had all been postponed to this year, hoping to find an agreement of understanding between the parties. Thus the proposal of the Campania Region had to be merged into the unique candidacy that Italy presented, combining the peculiarities of Italian espresso with those of Naples, focused on aggregation, culture and sociality. The two applications had therefore substantial differences: the Neapolitan candidacy fully respected the UNESCO criteria, as it valued not a product, but a culture, a tradition, social habits and conviviality. They were requirements that were more adherent to what UNESCO requires and that are missing in Trieste's proposal, whose dossier focused mainly on the entrepreneurial importance of coffee. The enhancement of Made in Italy products must go hand in hand with the promotion of our traditions and our culture, but it must also take into account the peculiarities required by UNESCO. Therefore, I believe that the legitimate candidacy has been snatched at Neapolitan coffee. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u144	I have to say that even if the candidacy didn't pass, Murolo and De Andr first thought about it and said: "Ah, what a beautiful 'or cafe, even in prison 'or know it does.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u145	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-404.ana.u146	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 17 February, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.32 a.m.
