ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u3	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved by a majority changes to the current timetable. Today's session will be suspended until 4 p.m. and will resume with the information of the Minister of the Interior on the events taking place during recent demonstrations of students related to the death of the young Lorenzo Parelli. The discussion of the decree-law on the extension of the state of emergency will begin at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow, with session without closing hours. The sitting will be suspended at 1 p.m., in connection with the formalities concerning the remembrance day ceremony, which will take place in the Chamber at 4 p.m. with the presence of the President of the Republic. The Assembly's work will resume at 7 p.m. The sitting of Friday 11 until 1 p.m. is confirmed if necessary. Next week's calendar provides for the possible follow-up of the decree-law on the extension of the state of emergency and, at the session of Tuesday 15 February, the discussion of motions on the Nutri-score and the ten-year plan From farm to fork. On Wednesday 16, the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the subject of inconveniability will be discussed. The other topics already planned for the calendar remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met yesterday, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, approved - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Wednesday, February 9 h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 2488 - Decree-Law n. 221/2021, Extension of emergency status (expands on 22 February) - Information of the Minister of the Interior on the events taking place during recent demonstrations of students related to the death of the young Lorenzo Parelli (Wednesday 9, at 16) Thursday 10 " h. 9,30 Friday 11 " h. 9,30-13 (if necessary)]] The sitting of Thursday, 10 February will be suspended at 1 p.m. in relation to the formalities concerning the Remembrance Day ceremony which will take place in the Chamber at 4 p.m., in the presence of the President of the Republic. [[Tuesday, February 15 h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up to bill n. 2488 - Decree-Law n. 221/2021, Extension of state of emergency (decades on 22 February) - Motions on Nutri-Score and 10-year Farm to fork plan (Tuesday 15) - Documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity in the matter of insindacability (Wednesday 16) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 17, at 15) Wednesday 16 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 17 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday, February 22 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 228/2021, Extension of terms (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (dates 28 February) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 24, 15) Wednesday 23 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 24 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No... (Decree-Law No 228/2021, Extension of time limits) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2488 (Decree-Law No 221/2021, Extension of emergency status) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 228/2021, Extension of time limits) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 42' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 35' Mixed 33'+5' PD 30' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u7	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, before we make our proposal for a timetable, I would like briefly to explain why we are going to vote on the timetable this morning, not having reached the necessary unanimity at the Conference of the Leaders yesterday. Unanimity has not been achieved because Brothers of Italy does not agree with the proposal for a timetable - which is also abstract, because we still do not know how exactly the work of the Commission will be carried out - which wants to insert a little time for Thursday evening. I want to be clear: it is not of course the possible night or night work that frightens us. What frightens us is the way we proceed, which we might call a drift. In fact, at the previous Conference of Leaders, we had established a timetable with timetables for the beginning and end of work, then necessarily modified because we are faced with a lack of work by the Commission. Let me explain: we should discuss the bill No 2488 of conversion of Decree-Law No 221 of 2021, to which the Government's amendment added other aspects. It is therefore an important act concerning health, health surveillance and the many measures to control the epidemic. The Commission has been summoned and disconcerted more than once and has basically not yet begun its work, beyond the general discussion. We of Brothers of Italy do not like to do and undo the calendar according to the criterion of haste, bending the times that serve the discussion and the comparison for some requirements that do not put first, as should be done, the importance of the measures and also the function of this Assembly. The question, in short, is certainly not the wristwatch, but - and we stress this - it is a political one. I would also add that we are less than a week away from President Mattarella's words of call during the second oath, and I refer in particular to the expression not to compress and not to expand the speaking time in this House, which is then conceptually a healthy and sacred principle... [[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues in the League if they can keep quiet, because it is only a minute. [[Call the president back.]] Thank you for your kind attention. I said that it is a question of defending the principle of the centrality of Parliament. The decree-law is very important, it deserves time and means of discussion and the many amendments deserve it, so we cannot focus on Thursday evening's slippery weather. I can also imagine the hasty way in which the debate will take place, with the resignation of someone to discuss the amendments to do before or, as has happened in other cases, with explanations of vote lodged at the Presidency table and not discussed in this House. [[Applause]] , accompanied even by a freeing applause, thus giving up to perform a function. These are speeches that then come out, because we are not in a bubble and we do not want to finish. We therefore think that this hypothesis of rehabilitating the calendar benefits the needs of those who want to return home and not of the discussion; indeed, it sacrifices the process. Why was I talking about drift? Because this is not the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that we must call to mind the importance and centrality of the debate to be held in this House... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Rauti. Colleagues, you must absolutely decrease the tone of the voice or interrupt, waiting for Senator Rauti to finish the surgery. Please, Senator Rauti. RAUTI (FdI). Thank you, Mr President, for helping me listen. I think those who are not interested can safely go out and come back for the vote. As I said, unfortunately this is not the first time that we have to undergo this - if we want to call it elegantly - unsystematic. I am thinking, for example, of the times of discussion and approval of the budget law, a dramatic thing that we cannot forget, both here and in the House, with the renunciation of explanations of vote in some cases, as I have already mentioned; not to mention the last two years, characterized by excessive recourse to the decree of urgency; and - I must say and repeat - the almost compulsive appeal to the votes of confidence, which frankly are not explained, in the face of a maxi-maximity that includes all but us. So, given the lack of interest in this House, I come to our proposal to amend the timetable. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, considering that tomorrow is the day of the Foibe remembrance and that tomorrow afternoon there are also demonstrations in this House, as well as outside this House, we propose that tomorrow morning we begin the debate as planned, always in keeping with the work of the Commission - of which we do not really know how to do so - from 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and then continue on Friday. Then, again with regard to the calendar, I remind everyone that there are also Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays and Tuesdays; it is not written anywhere that we have to work or pretend to work in the evening to close the work on Fridays at lunchtime. That is our proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u8	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Rauti. It's not approved. Colleagues, at this point I suspend the sitting which will resume at 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.47 a.m. and resumed at 16.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u9	The next item is: Information by the Minister of the Interior on the events taking place during recent demonstrations of students concerning the death of the young Lorenzo Parelli. I call the Minister for the Interior, State Councillor Luciana Lamorgese.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I report on the incidents covered by today's news, I would like to renew, by all the Government and my staff, my condolences to the family for the death in Lorenzo Parelli's factory. [[The President and the Assembly stand. Applause.]] , that with the commitment and freshness of his eighteen years testified to the determination of our country to rise from the devastating crisis induced by the pandemic. It is precisely the young people who have suffered more intensely from the social restrictions, inequalities, marginalities and missed opportunities that are the basis of a deep malaise, not always understood. More authoritative voices have recently focused on the depth of this crisis, also due to the failure of adults to listen in a framework of existential anguish that has changed our behavior, creating unknown human distances and deeply affecting our society. Thus, the unacceptable death of a young man, in addition at a time that should have been of maximum security because he was placed in a curriculum, gave rise to demonstrations of solidarity and protests by his peers. It is undeniable that each of us has felt unbelief and dismay, just as it is indisputable that these youth protests also express the desire for participation of a world that during the pandemic suffered in particular isolation. However, it is a sign of the vitality of our democracy that makes us hope for the future. On the other hand, however, democracy has its own rules, from which we can never ignore them, especially when it comes to rules that govern the crucial balance of constitutional values, such as the right to demonstrate freely and the protection of public health. And here I come to the facts. Following Lorenzo's death on 21 January last in Lauzacco, in the province of Udine, several student events took place to commemorate the young man and to challenge the way in which the training activities at work are carried out. To this end, the protest against the restoration of the performance of written evidence during the next exams of maturity was added. A first extemporaneous and not ritually forewarned event took place in Rome on 23 January at the initiative of the student movement La Lupa, recording the participation of other associations such as the Alternative Student Opposition (OSA) and the Communist Youth Front, for a total presence of about 200 people. I must point out here that the information activities of the police had revealed the precise intention of some participants, belonging to the social centers of Capitoline and adherents to groups of anarchist matrix, to transform the same manifestation into an occasion of physical confrontation with the police. In fact, despite the fact that more than one attempt at mediation has been made on that occasion and repeated calls have been made to desist, a group of protesters, detaching themselves from Piazza della Rotonda, the meeting place of the participants, moved in procession, thus contravening the existing provisions introduced for anti-Covid purposes, until impacting with the police deployment willing to protect sensitive objectives. The intention to arrive at a confrontation with the representatives of the Forces of the Order was also witnessed by the misrepresentation of some of the protesters with helmets, caps and above all by the repeated launch of smoke bombs and paper against the members of the Forces of the Order, some of which reached by kicks and fists, so much so that at the end of the day, among the operators of police bruised, four had to resort to medical care. There is no official news of the number of disputes among the protesters, but it appears that one of them has filed a complaint for injury to the judicial authority. To conclude my statement on the facts of Rome, I inform you that three demonstrators have been denounced, pursuant to Article 18 of the single text of public security (TUPS), for the lack of notice of the demonstration and that investigations are still ongoing with the help of the Scientific Police. On 28 January, the Communist Youth Front held a national student event on the same themes, comprising 35 events, 31 of which took place regularly. In Milan, Turin, Rome and Naples there have been critical episodes from the point of view of public order, of which I will now say. The Milanese event, induced by collective and student coordination, was announced in the form of a static garrison at Piazza Missori and Via Pantano. According to the organizers, it should have seen the participation of about 100 people, but in reality you have then reached about 300. An hour after the beginning of the event, that is around 16.30, the demonstrators, violating also in this case the anti-Covid dispositions, abandoned the square in order to head compactly in procession towards the nearby headquarters of Assolombarda, to protect of which had been arranged a deployment of the mobile departments. A large group of protesters, about 50, removed the barriers placed there and, in an attempt to break through to the headquarters of Assolombarda, came into contact with the police, followed the launch against the latter of eggs containing red paint and the ignition of smoke. The continuation of this heated phase of comparison has involved the carrying out of two short actions of lightening, carried out after an intervention of personnel of the Division General investigations and special operations (DIGOS), tending to moderate the use of the force necessary to reject the attempt to break through. The most frightening elements have been identified by the police in some members of the Student Collective Coordination, currently linked to the Social Centre Cantiere and in subjects belonging to the antagonistic and anarchist area. On the basis of this first investigation activity, five student movement activists were reported to the judicial authority for the offence of resistance to the public official, while one of them was also referred to for violation of Article 18 of the single text of the public security laws (TULPS). At the end of the event two operators of the mobile department of Milan reported slight bruises, while among the protesters there were some bruises, one of which was injured to the head and also refused the intervention of health personnel. From subsequent investigations carried out at the local nosocomi, there are no reported protesters. I now pass to the Turin event that, like that of Milan, had been announced for the morning of 28 January in static form; subject promoter of the student collective Communist Youth Front; place of conference Piazza Arbarello, where about 300 people were gathered, including, along with members of various student collectives and exponents of the Turin antagonists and anarchists environments, there were numerous militants of the well-known social center Askatasuna, local expression of the movement of Workers' Autonomy, particularly active on different themes and distinguished in particular for actions and criminal episodes committed during demonstrations, occupations, removals of stables, occupied abusively, or for other episodes of criminal importance. I would point out that the organizers had initially asked for a procession and that after clarification with the police station, about the constraints imposed by the legislation on Covid in the orange area, the event had been transformed into a fixed garrison. Nevertheless, a substantial group of participants moved in the procession against the deployment of the Forces of Order placed at the closure of the square, trying several times to break the barrier. The action took place in a few minutes and covered the various deployment points of the police device in the square. At such times, there have been moments of high tension, due to the physical contact between the most fiery demonstrators and the staff of the mobile department. After initially using the shields provided, the police, due to the violent attempts to break through with kicks and punches, resorted to actions of refusal and to a relief intervention, in the latter case also with the use of the deflator, obtaining the withdrawal of the front of the demonstrators. The action did not, however, have the result of dispersing the protesters, who continued to press on the deployment of public security for another two hours, during which sudden movements of organized groups of protesters followed, accompanied by the launch of stones and glass bottles, to which additional interventions by the police were paid. The wounded are as follows: a mobile operator, hit by a fist, reported a prognosis of five days; instead, eight are the protesters medicated on the spot, while another 10 people have resorted to medical care at the main hospitals of the city, reporting prognosis up to a maximum of twelve days. The first investigative results, the result of the activities conducted by DIGOS with the help of all available images, including those found on the web, attest that the clashes at the Turin event saw the work, with a precise role of direction, militants of Askatasuna. Thirteen of the 17 persons reported to the judicial authority for various crimes, including aggravated resistance to the public official, are known activists of the said social center, while the other four are representatives of the various student collectives. Coming now to the demonstration in Rome, precise that the initiative was taken by the same student movement La Lupa, which had called the previous demonstration on January 23. During the event, attended by about 500 people, a group of protesters was responsible for a dense launch of stones and bottles, smoke bombs and other blunt objects against the police forces. However, since no attempt to break through had been made and therefore no physical contact between the Forces of Order and the Facinosis, there was no need to resort to co-active interventions. The demonstration ended by recording a wounded man among the police, who reported slight bruises for the explosion of a paper bomb. Finally, I refer to the events in Naples. Also in this case, the event saw the aggression of subjects outside the student movement, having highlighted the presence of members of social centers and the association "Unemployed 7 November." The concentration of the participants, about 250, had been located in the central square of the Martyrs, where is located the seat of the Union of Industrialists, to which the demonstrators tried to force the police device, after having set fire to some smoke gents and launched in the direction of the said seat colored paint balloons. A lightening action was therefore needed in order to disperse the protesters, who then gave rise to a procession, which took place without any accident. There were no injuries, neither among demonstrators nor among police forces. The attempt to break the security barrier led to the referral to the judicial authority of four demonstrators, three of whom belong to the social centres and the aforementioned movement "Unoccupied November 7th." This is only the result of the first investigative activities, being still in progress further investigations aimed at identifying other possible authors of the violent conducts. In expressing my solidarity with the police workers who were content with the clashes, on which I have just reported, precise that the entire visual documentation, both the one taken up by the Scientific Police, and the one acquired from open sources, was immediately made available to the judicial authority, as happens in all cases where, during public demonstrations, integrating facts of crime occur. The investigative judiciary, therefore, is in full condition to ascertain the dynamics of the facts and the responsibilities associated with such events, including those possibly attributable to the conduct of police operators. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few concluding remarks to the reconstruction of the events which took place on 28 January: as I have already said in other circumstances where I have had the opportunity to report to Parliament, the defence of public order and security in a democratic system requires the timely exercise of the responsibilities of each one; prudent appreciation of the circumstances and sense of the measure, firmly framed within the framework of unitary and non-discriminatory criteria, an essential prerequisite for ensuring in every situation the balance of the different constitutional values at stake. It is from this perspective that the approximately 5,000 demonstrations that took place last year against the green pass and the anti-Covid restrictive measures have been addressed - to give an example - only 115 of which have caused disturbance, with a very important commitment of the police forces, called to enforce every day fundamental rules for the correct and peaceful development of the civil and democratic life of our national community. And it is also in homage to this commitment that those who at different levels are called to exercise institutional and operational responsibilities, linked to the safeguarding of order and public security, must reflect thoroughly when in this difficult work there are incresive facts, such as those that on 28 January last caused consequences to some young students outside the groups of the troublesome present in the squares and, however, remained involved in the taffles. As I mentioned at the beginning, we cannot fail to see how the student protest also arises from a strong discomfort caused by the restrictions of the pandemic, which ended up compressing the world of young people into their formative and aggregate dimension. We all have a duty to understand and to listen to a reality, that of youth, which has become even more complex because of the unprecedented problems that the health emergency has brought with it. The President of the Republic also reminded us a few days ago, saying that it is necessary to listen to the voice of the students who feel all the difficulties of their tomorrow and try to express demands and questions aimed at overcoming imbalances and contradictions. The main way is confrontation. The effort that needs to be made, especially when things are not going for the best, is to try to find more suitable ways of countering the right to demonstrate with the duty of the police forces to enforce the law. The same rules in force also provide that the organisers and the offices of the police can dialogue, so that the event takes place without misunderstandings, from which tensions can arise that are difficult to manage on the level of public order. I also mentioned this in my recent directive on public events, adopted in November 2021, with which I explicitly recalled the application of the principles of proportionality and adequacy in the modulation of interdictative and prescriptive measures. On 4 February, in the same big cities affected by the events of 28 January (Milan, Turin, Rome, Naples, as well as in other significant Italian realities), student demonstrations took place without generating any criticality comparable with those on which I reported today. This result has been achieved through a moderation in the level of protest and through an intensive dialogue between the student component and the authorities responsible for the protection of order and public security. In my professional experience I have been able to verify in the field how flexibility and balance are characteristics and quality of all the Italian Forces of Order and I am sure that they will be able to make the widest use of it whenever the situation requires it. I'm sure of it, and that's why I trust them. At the same time I am quite clear that the overall level of effectiveness of their work depends not to a minor extent on the quality of the technical equipment at their disposal, on those which have as their aim the protection of the safety of the operators up to the devices that guarantee the transparency of their activity and always make it possible to reconstruct the exact development of the facts. I am referring here to the cameras recently equipped with police forces (the State Police, the Carabinieri Arm), called bodycams, which will be used by operators engaged in public order services. The use of such new equipment will be carried out in full compliance with the directives issued by the Privacy Supervisor, who has defined the activation procedures as well as the rules on the use of recordings and the storage of images. I believe this is an important step, destined to strengthen further the feelings of closeness and affection that bind Italian citizens to the police forces, guarantors of the defence of civil liberties enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u11	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u12	Minister Lamorgese, the responsibility for the blood and heads of underage students split by the state police batons rests entirely on you, without any excuse. You say protesters and students were hiding agitators. No agitator, except the provocative agents that we see more and more often in the squares, we have been able to recognize; those provocative agents that are functional, first, to the harsh and bloody repression in the square and that allow them, afterward, to take measures to limit dissent and prevent the marches. Moreover, they are the same provocative agents that, once caught by the cameras, you justify with the famous phrases on the wave forces, with which you have also covered yourself with ridicule. Minister Lamorgese, his work and the work of the Government of which he is a member are increasingly connoting itself in terms of objectives, methods of execution and propaganda that are typical of authoritarian regimes. Therefore, in this place of representatives of the people, I have the duty to make them feel the weight of the indignation and contempt that a people, who will not have peace until you are laid down, requires me to represent them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u13	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u14	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Lamorgese for coming here to make the information on the serious facts of recent days. I think it is essential to clarify the critical profiles that have certainly emerged from the management of the student manifestation of recent days, called for the tragic death of the young Lorenzo Parelli. I would like to make a premise right away. Despite these events, the fundamental role that police forces play in ensuring the full development of democracy every day cannot be called into question; their work is essential and reassuring for the whole community. Their dedication and their sense of the institutions have manifested themselves in all their pregnance also and especially during the long years of medical emergency. Probably, however, it is on the basis of these sincere sentiments of gratitude that we all have towards the Forces of Order that amaze even more the facts of recent days. We were dismayed at the faces of the boys who participated in the event; children who were beaten and frightened. It becomes difficult then to understand why the need to suppress in such a violent manner spontaneous demonstrations of students who, after difficult years of torpor and forced sociality due to the pandemic, have come to the streets to express solidarity with a young man who tragically lost his life during school hours. I was very impressed by the words of the mother of the young Lorenzo, who defined as a caress the manifestations of the young for his son. I believe that caress cannot and must not take on the traits of violence. Measures to protect public order, even if they are more stringent measures dictated by the need to contain the pandemic and the protection of public security, must always be balanced with the protection of the constitutionally guaranteed right to the manifestation of thought. The response to the protection of public order can only always be proportionate and guided by a balance. You, Mrs. Minister, have spoken these days of a short circuit of the system, which exploded violently when the police forces found themselves in front of people who wanted to demonstrate in unplanned areas. Obviously, the individual responsibilities of those who have made disproportionate and unnecessary use of violence will be established. However, a similar modus operandi must be strongly rejected here. We cannot and must not allow such incidents to happen again. And we cannot do this not only because this results in a totally disproportionate response to the manifestation of thought, but also because of the same credibility and seriousness of the Forces of Order. This emerges even more in student demonstrations, where there are young people who simply want to make their voices heard. I believe that in this case there is a further value: young people were precisely the generational category most affected by the pandemic. Two school years in DAD and a strongly reduced sociality have more than ever shown the frailties and weaknesses of the youngest, who have had to build a new way of doing school and a new way of interfacing with others. The impact of the violence of the past few days then becomes more deafening if we drop it in the current context. Students who have gone down to the square ask for a correct application of the school-work alternation institute and the provision of certain rules that mark the validity of that time taken elsewhere compared to the school benches. Well, as representatives of the institutions we have a duty to listen, and not only to avoid other episodes of violent repression, but also and above all because our task is to devote ourselves to what is happening in the youth world and collect their demands. The school has a high task, which is certainly the training of people prepared from a cultural point of view; mature and aware of their abilities and able to express them; responsible people. Personally, I do not believe that this way of understanding school is incompatible with the world of work; on the contrary, I believe that it completes it. The school can play a fundamental role in transmitting more properly technical and practical knowledge. He can do so by serving as a bridge to the world of work, giving the kids the opportunity to test with hands what awaits them after a few years. The school-work alternation is an institution that was born ten years ago, but that can still work well if you value the training paths. Today the Minister of Education Bianchi said that it is very important that there is an open school and that we have experiences. We need to get back to the ability of a school that integrates... president. Senator, please finish. Evangelist (IV-PSI). We have to do everything in complete safety. Mr President, I shall finish. Let us think about improving this institution, about reforming it and about listening to the youngest. Lorenzo's death is always remembered as a warning that every work, of any kind, fixed or indeterminate, is always carried out in the utmost respect for security systems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u15	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u16	Minister, I expected you to come to this House and talk about responsibilities and tell us that it would change something and maybe drop some heads. And instead she came here to talk about a concept: impunity, your impunity. This isn't a single case. You have become a representative of a state that has a paradigmatic attitude, which we try to subvert unnecessarily. You are a representative of a state that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong: it is the reality of this mode. [[Applause.]] Lorenzo Parelli's mother said that the students in the square were a caress for his son, who was not recovering from a difficult period, enthusiastic about working; he was simply doing the school-work alternation because he was obliged to do it, and not because he was excited to do it, as she said. What did the state do to the students the boy's mom wanted to caress about? He beat them wildly, mercilessly, and the cameras showed unheard of violence against minors who ended up in the hospital, Minister, and you are responsible for this. [[Applause]] ; you and other high offices of the State are also. We cannot always put responsibility for inadequate security management on the State Police, because that is the reality. You spoke of infiltrators; you spoke of who knows what potential dangers were denied by the cameras; you also spoke of a short circuit with the kids, because we cannot ignore that there is a public health circular right now. In November, however, from a stage of a no green pass demonstration was announced the assault on the CGIL, and there too there were restrictions on public health, and instead you remained with arms consert and accompanied violent demonstrators to demolish the headquarters of a union [[Applause]] , in total indolence of the leaderships and forces of order present. Minister, you also said that law enforcement IDs aren't needed because there's gonna be cameras on uniforms. I inform you that one thing does not exclude the other: we can have both the codes and the cameras. Secondly, of course, cameras are an extra guarantee, but with the codes, citizens are given the opportunity to report without bureaucratic impediments. Above all, to you who want to protect the Forces of Order, I would point out that these attitudes are detrimental to those police officers who wear uniforms with honor, do their work well and end up in the emergency room for unworthy management by the provocative agents. So, you're responsible for both the wounded kids and the stigma that those good-working agents carry on you. I inform you that Amnesty International has brought to the Viminale 155,000 signatures to introduce the identification codes of the Forces of Order and there are legislative proposals, filed in the Chamber as in the Senate already in the last legislature, waiting to be discussed. The re-launching game that you play with the cameras, mis-speaking of these bill proposals, is just a waste of time. We immediately approve the standard for the identification codes also produced by Amnesty International, which perhaps knows a little more about human rights than this State and this Government that instead offends and humiliates them. So there are two orders of problems. The first is that a uniform worn with honor and responsibility cannot be used by some as a shield for their responsibilities and gestures; this is a remedy with the identification codes. The second is the concept of impunity: I have not found, for his part, an act of responsibility, a change of paradigm, with the taking of the act that some heads have to jump sooner or later. Something's wrong here, and you're responsible for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u17	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u18	Madam President, Minister Lamorgese, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by expressing, once again, on behalf of my Group, the pain and dismay at the absurd and unacceptable death of Lorenzo Parelli, the poor 18-year-old student who died while at school in a place of work. Here we reiterate our condolences to the family, to the friends of Lorenzo, to the schoolmates of the Salesian Institute of Udine and to the whole community of which the student was a member. Today, however, I believe that it is our duty to deepen aspects that Lorenzo's tragic death suggests to us: one of these is the theme of the usefulness of the former school-work alternation - now it is called in a different way - or, as in the case of Lorenzo, of the dual learning paths or of the whole galaxy of internships. It is our duty to ask ourselves whether the Moratti reform that established it in 2003, and which was then made structural by the Renzi Government, has focused its objective, which was to create a bridge between didactic and practical learning to promote the orientation of children, to offer students and students skills that can be used immediately on the labour market; all based on the assumption that one can learn and acquire knowledge both at school and in the company. The results of these years are not particularly satisfactory for several reasons: for example, not all workplaces and companies can have a significant educational value; company tutors sometimes do not live up to the situation and the difficult task; not all companies are able to transmit skills and training, especially those companies that already do little or nothing for their employees. I must also point out those cases in which this institution is used to replace wage-earners with students at zero or almost zero cost. We believe that school and education in general have a much higher task than mere preparation for work, but they must be the driving force behind social inclusion, cultural awareness, the development of consciences of individuals, the promotion of virtuous relationships between the individual and the community, because it is thanks to the school that we can understand the rights, but also the duties of each citizen and his role in society. The Institute for Alternance must and can be improved. We have already contributed to this in recent months, but we must continue along this path, because we need more school and certainly not less school, we need more opportunities for further study, and not the exploitation of young students. The country has different needs and we place at the heart of our efforts the improvement of school, education, research as the only possibility of social and economic development. [[Applause]] In any case, these phases of training and preparation for work must take place in full safety and unfortunately the case of Lorenzo shows a situation that certainly is not optimal with regard to safety in the workplace, which is not careless in our country, waiting for today we record an average of almost four deaths per day in companies, factories, yards. The other aspect on which we must reflect is connected to the demonstrations of young people who protested for Lorenzo's absurd death and to say that it is absolutely unacceptable that a student is put in danger of life while he is training. This tells us that our young people born in the new millennium are a generation conscious of their role and that they want to participate in the public debate, rightly demanding their own spaces. In this regard, I must point out that the scenes of intense tension and violence in the square we have witnessed are unacceptable and have provided a bad image of our country, because the right of expression and manifestation must always be protected, especially for our younger compatriots who look forward with confidence to social and political confrontation. Mrs. Minister, you've done a reconstruction of what happened. [[Call the president back.]] I'm gonna finish in a few seconds. We believe that it is necessary to establish the chain of responsibilities, because it is really unacceptable to see those scenes of our young people - girls and boys - with their heads split by battens. We trust in his work, but we think it's really necessary... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u20	Mrs. Minister, we thank you for the information today that allows us and especially the girls, the boys and their families to understand what really happened. We know that - as it has been remembered - our boys and our girls have come to the square after two years of pandemic, DAD, lockdown, absence of sociality and emotional distance, affective and educational. We know that this is a generation that we could define as many Telemaco, which for two years was prevented even just from looking at the horizon, let alone to sail the sea in search of the father. These guys need to find hope and not anger. These guys - as has been well remembered before - are shaken by the loss of a boy like them, Lorenzo Parelli - with the whitest and most innocent death, if it is possible to quantify the intolerance of losing their lives in that way - and they need to find their voice to manifest the void of trust and future they feel, with a discomfort increased by the very hard years past. Perhaps they had to be a little more accompanied and controlled for their own safety and for all citizens. However, we have understood, Mrs. Minister - as you well explained - the need for containment that is proper to those who manage public order, and for this we thank the Forces of order who carry out their duty, without sparing themselves, to protect all of us. At the same time, however, these young people must be listened to because in the demonstrations a positive event has happened: a renewed awareness, a renewed vitality, a renewed desire to participate of the generation that has most of all paid the price of the Covid. This is a very high price that the youngest have paid with the closure of the school that we of Italy Viva, first, asked to reopen during the first wave. The school is the first garrison of normality and all the time we have worked and obtained to keep it alive and in presence. School is the heart of society and without it there is nothing and the world stops. It has arrived - we are all saying this - the time to return to normal. The government is preparing the measures that will gradually allow us to reduce the restrictions. But normality also means recovering the rituality of social and political participation in the building of a common consciousness; and certainly we cannot do without these voices, the voices of the youngest. It has been said, by the colleagues who preceded me, that the manifestation in the intentions of the children, had to be like a caress according to the beautiful words of Lorenzo's mother, in whose name and memory the students had gone down to the square, certainly with a varied platform, not always shared, as in the case of the writing at maturity, but still expression of that rediscovered normality that we so much desire and for which we work. It ended, unfortunately, with some faces buried by underage boys that maybe we wouldn't have liked to see and that certainly have hurt. But I am sure that if there have been personal responsibilities, these will be established. You spoke of possible infiltrating the square and the need not to allow a moving procession; yet it is clear that something has gone further. Minister, it's right to clear up right now and do it all the way. We must also remember those who are no longer there, like Lorenzo. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Mrs Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u21	Senator Garnero Santanché is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me say that of course Brothers of Italy clings around the family of Lorenzo, because we are all parents and we understand the pain, the drama. Losing a child during school hours, losing a child in the school-work program requires each of us to examine our consciences. These parents are in pain and for them there will never be an end of pain, because the penalty will continue to accompany, day after day, the life of this family. Mr Lamorgese, it is clear that you have difficulty managing public order. I listened carefully to your information, written by your offices, where there is first the description of the events. But she forgot to say the most important thing: you, Minister, were not able to divide the students, those who were in the streets to manifest for a just cause, such as the death of their friend, their student, social centers, provocative, infiltrated. You see, Minister, your job should be to prevent and to ensure that students are not paying in these squares, because those bloody faces fall into your work, Minister. Putting the Forces of Order, at the mercy of all and of no one, is your responsibility, because you are at the top of that Ministry, is the ultimate link in the chain of command. It is useless that today, in addition to his inability and his immobility, let us feel that at the end of the day a scapegoat will find him. But you will not have to find him in the Forces of Order, which we defend and will always defend for their work. The law enforcement is your responsibility, Minister, and it is your responsibility. Even this time the demonstrations escaped from her hands, because she could not prevent. That there are social centers, that there are provocateurs in every manifestation is now evident; we have seen it in demonstrations against the green pass, where there were families with strollers, but there were also social centers and infiltrated. [[Applause]] And what's your answer? She always makes the whole grass a bundle; this is no longer possible. Minister, if we were in other states, France, the United Kingdom, Austria, Romania too, you would no longer be sitting in that chair today; you would have been sent home, because too many circumstances have seen you unable to play your role. I would just like to remind you of the disaster you caused when on the occasion of the attack on the CGIL, you failed to stop a gentleman, Giuliano Castellino, who was a special guard with a residence obligation and a prohibition to participate in the demonstrations. Consider, moreover, that the same gentleman - it is said - from Piazza del Popolo an hour and seventeen minutes before said: let's all go to CGIL to take what is ours. She said she couldn't do anything, because if she stopped him, something worse would happen. The worst could not be, however, because you, Minister, have reached the worst of the work of your Ministry. I would like to remind you of the rave party that took place in August in Viterbo, with 10,000 stoners coming from all over Europe. She was the only one who didn't realize it and let them occupy 30 hectares for days, leaving a dead person on the ground, dozens of hospitalized for overdose, rape. And yet she wasn't even able to kick them out. They're gone. [[Applause]] I would also like to remind you that since you played this important role, our borders have become a colob. In your mandate you were unable to defend the borders of Italy, but only the borders of Europe. The landings have increased and we have reached over 60,000 compared to 10,000 two years ago. You ask yourself a few questions or can you just read what your offices are asking you to come to Parliament and say things that will remain in the history of this nation, as when in this House, to the precise question about what that bourgeois agent did when he was pushing that truck, always during the attack on the CGIL, you replied that you were verifying the wavy force exerted in the middle? How long will we have to hear these answers in a House of Institutions? Do you really think we're blind and deaf? Do you really think that if ministers in other countries had your behavior today they would still be sitting in that chair? Mr. Minister, I tell you with ease and politeness that in life it takes courage and you have an opportunity to show that you have to resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her information. I say immediately, before entering into the substance of the hearing, that it is right to claim the fact that, in such a difficult phase as the one in which we are and as the one behind us, it is right to have guaranteed the peaceful development of the vast majority of demonstrations, knowing how much tension there has been and continues to exist in the country. Having said that, I believe, Mrs. Minister, that it is right to stop and reflect on what happened in the demonstrations of mourning and protest for Lorenzo's death. I think it's right. We have to do this so that these episodes do not happen again and this debate is useful if it serves to reason on this. If it serves yet another free attack against the Minister of the Interior, against the Government, totally free, pretending to forget what are the different responsibilities that there are on the management of the squares, frankly this discussion risks not serving anything. [[Applause]] Mr Minister, we will try to intervene aware that you have said three important words: prudence, balance, responsibility. I believe that these are really the principles to which we must inspire our reflection and our political action. I share, as I say, also the concern about the frequent presences of organized groups that infiltrate the demonstrations, conditioning them. Our condemnation is total, our solidarity with the Forces of Order is total in the face of the attacks of these people. This is not in question. Those who use violence must be stopped and removed from the marches. Madam Minister, having said that, as you know better than I do, because you have worked for this, we must guarantee the freedom and security of those who want to demonstrate. [[Applause]] We need to ensure that those who wish to demonstrate peacefully are able to do so. This is the task of the state, the institutions and the forces of order, avoiding involving, as unfortunately happened, unarmed young people in the clashes. The presence of groups of helpless people, organized groups, cannot justify what has happened and has involved unarmed young people. I insist that the state should guarantee the possibility of demonstrating safely. We have not managed to create conditions in some - he is right - few demonstrations. However, this does not mean that we must not pose the problem; the conditions have not been created to allow a peaceful and peaceful demonstration for those who wanted to do it. On this we need to reason and understand. On this, I think you mentioned it when you talked about handing over the footage to the judiciary, you have to ascertain the responsibilities. In the event, measures must also be taken in respect of errors of assessment which those who had responsibility for the square had to take. Our concern is that we do not consider these road accidents or collateral damage. These are serious facts that need to be avoided, that should be avoided and that, perhaps, could be avoided. Mrs. Minister, you made a very honest statement. When we say that there were information, prior to the demonstrations, which indicated that those demonstrations were followed by the initiative of groups that wanted to create accidents, we may have to ask ourselves why we were unable to prevent them. We are faced with a social situation, also linked to the very serious Covid-19, which can generate tensions. So, we need to prevent, defuse the fight. This is a responsibility that we all have: who controls, who has the responsibility of public order, who, like us, has the responsibility not to be overwhelmed by propaganda and with that to ignite the souls or to use instruments that can increase tension. I think, however, that, as you said, Minister, there is a malaise among young people in particular. For this reason this information is useful and it is useful to reason on what has happened. It cannot and must not pass on the idea, especially among these young people, of an enemy state that punishes dissent. It's not like that. So, Minister, you will have to work well to prevent these incidents from happening again. Young people and students are on the same side as the Forces of Order. The Forces of Order and the Institutions are on the same side as the students, even when the students protest. That is the principle on which we must work. It is up to you, to us, to the leaders of the Forces of the Order to put in place the most suitable instruments so that, in the future, we can effectively combat the groups of warriors, the organized groups, the groups that seek accidents, in order to guarantee to those who peacefully manifest to do so in safety, just as it is right to do in a democratic country that works and in which the institutions function as in ours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u26	Mr President, the Minister today, at the beginning of his information, rightly referred to the issues, the tensions in the country, the malaise. We must never lose sight of these aspects. In particular on the issue of students, I would like to remind myself here, first, that those were children who were demonstrating out of solidarity, out of protest against what had happened, a very serious fact: a boy who, at the last day of this school-work alternation internship, lost his life. One more victim, a white death even before entering the workplace. When there are demonstrations in the field linked to such serious facts, these obviously concern that boy and his family, but they concern all of us and what these guys were asking and who continue to ask. You know, in fact, that there is mobilization everywhere, that there is the employment of schools on the issue of school-work alternation, an issue on which I fought, because I did not share it, as it had been set up, already in the last parliamentary term. I also believe that, if we want these information to make sense, perhaps Mr Bianchi should also be close to you, because we have to give answers. Many tensions, at this time, are also on the question of the second test of maturity. Therefore, dialogue and meeting must originate from the institutions, precisely because we have been leaving - I hope so - for two very heavy years, which have hit young people and their families very hard. We are faced, you know, with a very difficult social situation, which is very difficult. Therefore, when you say to use caution and caution, even more so, Minister, they must be applied at times like these. As for the episodes that have occurred - I do not want to dwell here on the reconstructions - certainly in the end what has passed? The young people who were rightly in the streets to demonstrate - the Constitution is its guarantor - in a very difficult situation they were beaten and mistreated: this is the message arrived and certainly not a positive message. Mrs. Minister, I have some experience of demonstrations, as you know, and protesters generally have a certain ability to manage them, they can dialogue and they can ask if they want to make a piece of procession. The ability to manage public order lies also in being able to satisfy the protesters on some paths, in knowing how to accompany them and know how to distinguish. Moreover, they were not great demonstrations, so it could be said that there were a million people in the square and it was difficult to manage them. They were small demonstrations. Therefore, for the safety of all, to guarantee the right to demonstrate, so that it is clear that the Government knows well the situation in which we are and the discomfort in the school, you have to be very careful, you had to have it, Minister, but something did not work. You know that, and it's obvious something didn't work out. I know that it is not enough to give the directives from the plants and that it takes the ability in the square to recognize certain subjects and I also do not share the fact that I always use the terms "provocatori" or "facinerosi" in a small event, in the cities, those who have experience know how it is possible to make sure that they manifest themselves in safety. In conclusion, Minister, we must certainly reflect and our duty here, as legislators, is to make sure that this uneasiness is answered with true facts: this is the real debate and our task. But this is also the government's responsibility. There is another question, Minister: I have been presenting, since the last parliamentary term, together with other colleagues, the bill on the issue of the identification number. You have answered now talking about the cameras, but it is a question on which, as you know, with the then prefect Gabrielli we were finding a solution, to guarantee the protesters and the forces of order; to guarantee everyone, because I from the facts of Genoa I am still waiting. Many years have passed and I believe that it would be an important, true act of guaranteeing democracy, demonstrating the ability to manage public order and therefore a guarantee for everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u27	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Forza Italia Group must start from the pain and dismay of Lorenzo Parelli's death: to his family, to all the children who shared a journey of school and education with him and hoped for a future of work, our thoughts and the more general reflection, which is not foreign to this debate, about the unacceptable story of the white deaths and what happens, which in recent days also President Mattarella recalled, in that important list of moral, social and legislative issues and commitments that linked to the protection of the dignity of the nation. Therefore, there are various issues in this information and one cannot but start from the dismay for the story that then triggered the demonstrations and all the subsequent initiatives. But things must be kept separate, because it is only a dramatic tragedy, undoubtedly very serious, that can justify a series of acts and behaviors. In fact, it is right that there be the sign and the anger and we must also understand it: it is a feeling of rebellion and protest that is part of the social life and the understandable indignation of all. Therefore, that students have taken initiatives is absolutely understandable; indeed, if there were no reaction to facts of this nature, we would have to ask ourselves about a society chloroformized by social, by a way of life that sometimes seems to be conditioned almost more by communication than by real life. Having said that, however, there is the question of how to manage these events; it is not that the undeniable gravity of the event cannot justify any kind of initiative. Therefore, the question of white deaths, that school-work and this tragedy must be kept in our minds and in our responsibilities. Of course, even the Ministry of the Interior; which is an important part of the State and you, Minister, know this because you have experienced it in all respects. Therefore, even if there is the headman and forms of exploitation of the work, it is not only the Ministry competent for matter but also the Viminal that must act and operate, with the prefectures and on the territory. Sometimes one forgets that the Ministry of the Interior is the State in its most operational and risky functions. Being a Minister of the Interior is one thing - you have learned it - risky and uncomfortable, because there are many responsibilities that fall on the Minister of the Interior and others that do not physically fall on the Minister but politically involve him. I am not here to make a list of the issues we have discussed, from rave parties to emergency landings: there are a thousand problems that the whole government should face together with the Ministry of the Interior. Staying on the subject of its information, I think that on the issues of the fight against illegal immigration and the security of the country also the President of the Council should devote more attention and more support to the Ministry of the Interior [[Applause]] , because they are problems that require international relations and listening in Europe. We have a President-in-Office of the Council who is a European authority. She left with the Malta Accords, but then Malta occasionally forgets those agreements. If we have such an authoritative President of the Council in Europe, put all those who, as soon as there is a landing, turn their faces to the other side or forget that the ships are Spanish, German, they are countries that should take people. As you can see, Minister, we are offering you arguments to be put forward in the Council of Ministers as well. On the specific issue, you do all the checks on the case. The Forza Italia Group has the utmost confidence in the Police: in the State Police, in the Carabinieri Armada, in the Finance Guard, in the Prison Police. Could there have been mistakes? It is possible, in a tiring and difficult management. If there are any, you will check them and give the right instructions. The proportionality of the action is a fundamental criterion for those who manage public order. A demonstration of children leaving school is a different thing from that of so-called social centers that have had the opportunity to do violence in this case too. [[Applause]] and to break heads. You, Minister, have made a list, but how many policemen and policemen have been injured in Val di Susa in recent years just because you have to make a more modern railway? What's the price they're paying cops and carabinieri? There's a bulletin. I heard you quoted Askatasuna (I hope I said it well). When will this center of violence that in Piedmont has been attacking the police forces for years and years be closed? We have to close this, we have to close it. The dissolution: we said to dissolve everything that needs to be dissolved after the events that took place in Rome. But also these things here why do they have to happen? All the checks must be carried out and we think that in Rome and elsewhere prefectures too must be valued even more, above the police forces' police headquarters or territorial commands, so that they have absolutely adequate and competent people at their summit. But let's talk about police personnel: let's give solidarity to those who have been the victim of a huge tragedy; we understand that students can have anger, but not the professionals of violence, like those of the social centers that infiltrate the demonstrations; they are not the indignant students but professionals of violence and aggression to the people in uniform. [[Applause]] That must be said, ladies and gentlemen, without winks and misunderstandings. In these days I have read the notes of many police unions: those of the SIAP, the SAP, the COISP, the SIULP, of Italy Celere, which is a smaller union made by those who are on the street doing the job on the front line. We collaborated with the Government - our Forza Italia Group is proud of this - so that resources for the recruitment and overtime of the police forces were allocated in the budget law. I repeat, we are proud to have done so in this Senate of the Republic, in the Koch Room a few metres from this House, and the Minister knows that, as the top police officers know. Colleagues, we fought to grant - indeed, to give is a wrong word - to give police personnel the right to judicial and health protection [[Applause]] And we've put some money in there so they don't have to pay for their own treatment and lawyers. [[Applause.]] In fact, when the guy in the social center denounces the policeman or the policeman, he has to pay - Senator Damiani who was in the Commission knows well - the legal fees, the health costs. We have launched initiatives, in agreement with the Government, because those who risk must be protected in moral and economic terms, and that is what we wanted. We have contributed to the renewal of the contract; indeed, perhaps, with the ministers Brunetta and Lamorgese it is necessary to begin the negotiations for the next contract. So, we want guarantees for this staff. Welcome to the cameras on the uniforms, also because we often see on the televisions or on the social media the image that suits you: you see the policeman who reacts but you don't see who happens to beat him a moment earlier. [[Applause.]] The editing and disassembly of the images is done. I remember years ago, Minister, there was an executive who made public order in Independence Square, when a stable was cleared and occupied for years. Well, he said a bad word while they were intervening and was immediately blamed on social media: an official saying a bad word? Yet, they did not show that the head of that official and of the policemen had been thrown at gas tanks of 10-20 kilos from the windows of that occupied building. And then the use of cameras also serves by the state to prevent the instrumental and partial use of some images that are used - just delete some - to show the carabiniere or the bad policeman who is instead defending himself and is guaranteeing the safety and freedom of all. We do not want any excess; there must be no excess, but not even any surrender of the State to the reasons of legality and order. [[Applause.]] It can and must be manifested, this is a free country where everyone must be able to express his voice, but according to the rules, which then, in these years of difficult health condition, have been inevitably - alas - more stringent. Even politics, we too would like to have meetings in the theatres, in the halls and in the squares, as we have always done. And then, watch out for what may not have worked, grant yourself to those who obviously want to protest to do so, but do not make an instrumentalization against the police forces, to which gratitude, gratitude, economic means, material and moral assistance must be given. Thank you, therefore, to students who want to express their ideas peacefully, but thanks to the people in uniform who risk and every day are attacked for the protection of the freedom of all citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u29	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are here because Parliament felt that it was urgent for you to come and report on a further matter from which there is a clear criticism of your work. Minister, you are well aware that we in the League have never done and we will not give discounts to anyone when it comes to security and public order, when the work of the law enforcement forces is in some way called into question. The first analysis we need to do to approach the issue in a constructive and unobtrusive way is that what we all saw should not have happened. Madam Minister, you are called to coordinate the prefectures, to organize the management of public order with foresight; you are called to assess the risks of situations that can become explosive and to immediately understand how the safety of demonstrators must be protected, avoiding violent fringes being able to infiltrate and work from within, in order to achieve objectives that have nothing to do with peaceful social claims rightly brought to the streets. Let us not allow bad management to be the tool for attacking women and men of the Forces of Order in the accomplishment of their work. [[Applause.]] It is clear that in the management of the event in Turin, which had also been authorized as a static garrison, things did not work in the right way: it was allowed that violent fringes of anarchist insurrectionalism and belonging to the social centers have infiltrated among the students. It is obvious that all this has been programmed and organized over time, from what emerges from the images these movements were well inserted within the event and had organized in the smallest details the methods of provocation to arrive at the clash. The mobile team called to manage the public order of the event immediately understood the danger of what was happening and how it could degenerate if it had not intervened in time to contain the protesters. Preventing certain phenomena from happening requires careful guidance and intelligence that needs to be structured and structured well. [[Applause]] After the well-known events of Rome, culminated in the violent aggression of the headquarters of the CGIL, we would have expected a careful assessment of the risks of the Turin event, also because in Turin we have the professionals of the clash, antagonists with multiple and multi-annual experiences of attack to the Forces of the order matured mostly in Val Susa, but not only. Senator Fattori - I can't see now - anything but provocative agents: Askatasuna could not miss the appointment of Piazza Arbarello, never miss an opportunity to attack the institutions physically, it was a situation too gluttony. Of course, she showed up with sticks, bricks and other blunt objects that they have launched at the appropriate time to trigger the police reaction. The guarantee of the security of the citizens and the management of public order are obtained with the daily work, means to understand, train and train the men and women of the Forces of the Order, to equip them with the right means, to evaluate which are the most suitable means of defence and above all to monitor and repress the environments where violence against the State nests. Since we have assumed the responsibility of Government, as a League we have felt the duty to be at the side of the Forces of Order, to guarantee them maximum dignity in the performance of their duties, we have worked to strengthen their staff and to acquire new endowments that facilitate their tasks, such as taser and bodycam. [[Applause]] Let us not deal with what has happened superficially, please, ladies and gentlemen. You all know how deeply our country has been wounded by ideological clashes, by partisan wars, by red and black terrorism. When one trivializes referring to what happened, talking about demonstrations of students, one forgets how the dark pages of the political opposition that resulted in terrorism and violence were written just starting from student movements. Today marks the anniversary of the death of a young boy, Paolo Di Nella: it was February 9, 1983, the last act of that horrible season of the years of lead, when a young student was beaten by violent fringes armed by partisan hatred. Let us be careful when we empty the contents of what happened in Turin, let us be careful to criminalize the Forces of Order. It only takes a little to make a spark turn into a fire. We at the League are responsible, be it clear. If a cop is wrong, he has to pay like anyone else. The facts will be deepened, the images will be reviewed, we will have to understand in detail what happened. This must be done absolutely quickly. Young students and their parents, who have found themselves unconsciously in a high-risk situation, must have answers, must be able to know what mistakes and especially by whom they have been committed. Minister, believe me, we are aware of the historical period we are going through. We understand how difficult it is to ensure compliance with the rules and how difficult it is to stem violent demonstrations burning under the ashes of the restrictions and suspensions of constitutionally guaranteed freedoms due to the management of the extraordinary and unprecedented event of the pandemic. Minister, believe me when I tell you that for these reasons security and public order must be a priority for the government. [[Applause]] We cannot allow events like that which happened on Sunday evening in Milan's Wall, always in Turin, where dozens of Senegalese, celebrating the victory of the African Cup, attacked a patrol car, forcing it to escape. One of the main problems is precisely the total lack of fear and respect for uniforms and the almost total certainty of impunity for those who care, spit or attack the guardians of order. Mr. Minister, as a League we will be watching over your actions and we will try to direct you to the best of our ability because we are not interested in exploitations at the moment. We do not want to capitalize on mistakes an easy political consensus; we are in the government because we want to contribute to the good of our country and also to that of those who, for 1,600 euros per month, endanger their lives every day to ensure the safety of all people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u31	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, as you mentioned on 21 January last, Lorenzo Parelli died at the age of eighteen when he was an apprentice in his studies. This tragedy has once again imposed the urgency to take seriously and decisively the issue of safety at work, because at work we cannot die like this, at eighteen or sixty years old. As President Mattarella reminded us, the deaths at work hurt society and the conscience of each of us because the safety of every worker concerns the value that we attribute to life. This tragedy has upset all of us and especially Lorenzo's peers: boys for whom such a horrible death was a heavy boulder, because each of them would have thought: I could be there, it could happen to me. Surely these children, so outraged and grieved at the death of their peers, cannot be called provocative. Mr. Minister, something needs to be reviewed if the provocations of angry teenagers have been answered by loading them with batons. We can bring all the rules into play, but that doesn't mean they were just kids. Let me tell you, Minister, those are our boys. And if, as you yourself have said, there has been a short circuit, we must do everything to ensure that it never happens again. The words of Gabriel, one of the students present at that event, are explicit: "We are aware of the current restrictions on health security, but there are bureaucratic times and political times. What happened to Lorenzo meant so much to us and we needed to make it understood by any means necessary. These boys, as Gabriel says, have not only the need to make him understand, but also the right to be heard by the institutions. [[Applause]] This is especially so at this moment when they are already heavily marked by the pandemic that has deprived them of the most carefree time in their most beautiful years, it has turned them away from friends, hugs and carefreeness and thrown into loneliness, distance and fear of being infected and infected. It's the kids who paid the highest price of this tragedy. The pandemic has put a strain on their mental health if the incidence of depression and anxiety among teenagers has doubled, if eating behavior disorders have increased by 30 percent, and if a recent study of the Catholic University of Milan has revealed that 2 percent of teenagers think daily of death or self-harm. These children so tried are and remain our future and of our country and today they ask us for help. And if we have not managed to protect them from the damage caused by the pandemic, we certainly have a duty to listen to this cry of sorrow that is expressed also by rebellion. Those young people in the square asked us not only to be protected, but to learn to look at the future with their own eyes. According to World Economic Forum data, 65 percent of children attending school today will do a job that does not exist. And we're ready? How are we preparing them for the future? How much space do we give to their creativity, to the development of their talents? [[Applause]] So let us really help these young people, first of all with listening and comparison and not with batons. Then let us help them to write with courage the future that belongs to them. Pope Francis, during World Youth Day, said that the most difficult and fascinating task that has been handed over to them is to stand while everything seems to fall apart, to be watchmen who know how to see the light in night visions. Our task, however, is to be good at feeding those flames, keeping the light of their dreams on and building with them, with courage and vision, a story that lives up to those dreams. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u33	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u36	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus together on one aspect of the important speech that President Mattarella made on the day of his second oath, which relates to the centrality of Parliament. I would have liked to do so within the framework of a logic that would recognize the value of all the things that we do in our parliamentary work and that very often fall into empty sacks. I am referring, for example, to parliamentary questions. It is not possible that Parliament's only time to answer is that of question time, on Thursday from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. With these rhythms it is clear that none of us can get answers from the Ministers; that is not possible. Now, it may seem a small thing, but the question arises from a gesture of attention that the Member is paying to the territory, not only to his constituents, but also to what we can call the people, who ultimately look at Parliament and also record Parliament's inadequacy. I wonder whether, after Mr Mattarella's speech, the time devoted to answering questions could not be extended formally. I insist: I speak of a specific moment (on Tuesday morning, on Friday morning). People will be present who have asked the questions they are facing; it cannot be believed that it will remain, from here to the end of the parliamentary term, one hour per week to answer questions from 315 senators. A second thing, which we see in the dynamics of these days and today: the Commission is not ready and we do not even know if it will be ready tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. To date, the Commission is not ready to report on the bill of conversion of decree-law to our examination because the famous maxi amendment has not arrived. Can we be aware that this time could have been destined to discuss motions or to face other problems, avoiding leaving it as a kind of void? I believe that Parliament's central role is also to resume the organization of times and spaces. I thank and do so in the wake of what President Mattarella said, so I think I have an authoritative cover behind my back.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u39	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to read the letter that a doctor who treats has addressed to his colleagues, asking me to read it here: a letter to my medical colleagues. They keep saying that home care doesn't work, but I treated almost 600 of them and I didn't have any death. I did not fall into the trap of paracetamol, because the example of Bergamo, with elderly people allowed to cook for days in their bed in March 2020 with only paracetamol and trucks loaded with coffins, seems to me to have clarified that the therapy was bankrupt. Of course, we receive continuous attacks, and at government level and at large virologies there is complete censorship of these treatments. Lately a colleague has offended me heavily in front of another colleague who has been horrified. Yeah, I got hurt, and then I know what I'm worth, and I have enough self-esteem, and I don't follow the line of hate, even if you're making a big deal out of me. He's not a part of me, and he never will. I just can't. Many colleagues discriminate, in spite of Article 3 of our code of ethics, against people vaccinated from those not vaccinated, despite the fact that during the last pandemic those who had also received the triple dose of vaccine got sick the same. Why all this? Why should this rampant violence and hatred, when trying to soothe and cure, be the main satisfaction for a doctor, beyond the patient's choices? It's written in our code of ethics. Please, colleagues who still believe in our oath, set aside unhealthy ideas, be an example to a world that is taking a bad drift. Let's also listen to the other person who doesn't feel the same way we do, with the love we look at our mother with. It is from us that a new change must begin, which will finally bring light to a world paralyzed by fear. The duty of care done with conscience and love must remain. How many side effects do I see? So many, yet I don't back out and try to make up for it even if I don't sleep at night. Life is sacred, unique. Do you really think you're feeling better if you treat a sick person with escarpments, if we continue to discriminate against those who didn't give the State injection? Is this the Italian medicine, that of patients exchanged as infecting monsters? So we're downstairs? I saw a pregnant, fragile woman banged in the middle of the street without medical assistance. I only saw people cry in my clinic because they were welcomed with their hearts. You are also finally protected from the vaccine, so what fears do you have inside you? What is left of our university studies? What is left of our humanity, of the poets or writers who, like Manzoni, described the plague? What is left of free choice? What are the priorities of your life as doctors? What do you expect from the future? What medicine do you have? Do you have any plans? Are you happy and satisfied with yourself? What do you dream of at night? Beyond the choices made by every Italian citizen, the cure and healing are above all a personal satisfaction to keep inside, that dream we had on the school benches at the university when you said: who knows if I will succeed, with my hands and my brain, to save some life? Let's go back there, take back that wish they stole from us, let's revive that young student inside the hard armor that we set ourselves. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u40	Senator, you may submit the rest of your observations to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u43	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Madam President, I would like to inform the House that on 24 January 2022 Terni's attorney, after that of Rome, finally closed the infamous accusations of racism and anti-Semitism that began on 20 January 2019 for a tweet of which I apologized. It was thirty-six months of media doom, with newspaper articles denigrating a person who had spent more than thirty years of his life protecting the weakest and most defenceless, fighting against any discrimination of race, language or religion. Today journalism has transformed what should be the cornerstone of democracy, freedom of information, into a special media court and in too many cases into media doom. Intimidating judgments are expressed in the media with lynching vocabulary in the public square. Misjudges not only of the dignity of those who are the subject of the attack, but also detrimental to the reputation of journalists who instead of consuming the sole of the shoes base the articles on the hearsay, gossip, resorting to gimmicks to hit the victims of lynching, reaching to formulate slanderous insinuations without any feedback from the sources, even assuming the non-existent and defamatory vote of exchange on the candidates to the Quirinale. The Procurator of Rome had already considered that the words used by me in that tweet were without offensive expressions, not resolving in any way in a free personal attack, framing itself in the right of criticism for the non-susistence of objective and subjective elements for the crime hypothesized and asking the judge for preliminary investigations the filing of the proceeding in the light of the unfoundedness of the crime. Despite that filing, I have suffered other attacks and further complaints promoted by Carlo Greppi, historian collaborator of RAI who with an article defamatory titled "Il grillino Elio Lannotti was sued for incitement to racial hatred" on August 3, 2021 on his profile repeated the slander, reaching the conclusion of the post in a threatening way: "We will see in court senator". In Italy that punishes honest servants of the State to reward gagliofi, chores, lestophants, manutengoli of the power, among the first places for corruption and among the last for freedom of the press, on the accusation of racial hatred, built to art also to prevent professionalism and experience gained in the banking and financial world could be put at the apex of a bicameral commission, there were over 1,000 articles and hundreds of talks on TV and only three articles on the media to give news of the archiving of the prosecutors. Madam President, in conclusion, I would like to thank you and inform my colleagues that I shall quote in the civil slanderers and slanderers, no one excluded. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u46	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my brief speech would like to reiterate the profound significance of World Cancer Day, which took place on 4 February. Cancer is no longer the synonym of a condemnation without hope or without appeal. Today, fortunately, despite the hard and difficult reality that the person affected by cancer lives daily, the diagnosis of cancer is the beginning of a path steeped in many difficulties, sacrifices, physical and psychological suffering, which however more and more often allows to see a light at the bottom of the tunnel: healing. It is important to achieve an improvement in the quality of life of the patient and its reintegration into social activities. All this without forgetting the difficult iter and the thousand problems that start after the diagnosis and continue with the therapeutic path, made of drugs with their side effects, surgical interventions, physical therapies and many complex instrumental examinations. The theme of this day draws attention to the importance of early diagnosis, screening, the need to eliminate inequalities and unequal treatment. Close the care gap, eliminate the unequal treatment. This is the slogan chosen for this year. Increasingly emphasising the correct information, awareness campaigns on the importance of prevention and being able to achieve the objective of access to better care, equal for all. Finally, we must remedy the damage and delays caused by the Covid-19, which are now more likely than ever to frustrate the excellent results achieved by research, scientific progress, new diagnostic technologies and therapeutic progress. How many operating rooms have been closed, how many surgeries have been missed or delayed, how many surgeries have been suppressed. All this, Mr President, unfortunately overlooking the time factor and its importance. A recovery plan for oncology must be reprogrammed quickly, in order to be able to remedy at least part of the lost time, so as not to have, after the pandemic from Covid-19, a next epidemic of advanced cases of cancer no longer operable or tractable due to delays and deficiencies in care accumulated in the last two years. Mr President, efforts must be unified. Everyone does their part to reduce the impact of cancer on our lives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-401.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.55 p.m.
