ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft constitutional law No 747-2262-2474-2478-2480-2538-B, already approved by the Senate in first resolution, in a text resulting from the unification of the draft constitutional law of initiative of Senators Iannone and Calandrini; Biti; Agussori; Garruti and others; Gallon and others; approved, without amendment, in first resolution, by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I would also remind you that at its meeting on 22 June the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion and reply of the representative of the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u7	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, today I will be very brief, because the subject has already been dealt with in the previous reading, but one cannot help but remember the importance of today's sport day. We are a step away from a long-standing goal and with the next - I hope very quickly - reading, the second in the House, finally will be introduced the right to sport in the Constitution, Article 33. It is an important step because the right to sport will essentially have equal dignity with respect to the right to education and the right to health and it is an extremely important moment, because it represents the achievement of an objective that was dear to all of us. I want to remind you that Italy Viva, with Senator Sbrollini, that I am sorry today is absent and cannot participate in this moment certainly extraordinary, has been spent since the last legislature - like all of us - to achieve this objective. At the same time, however, as well as being a very important goal, it is also a commitment, because, when this measure is finally adopted at second reading, the right to sport will involve a commitment for all of us, who will have to guarantee the regular exercise of that right. This will mean that we will of course have to facilitate access to resources and make sure that there is capillarity throughout the national territory of assistance to all societies that do extremely important work. Sport, as is well known, is not only a pastime, but is a social service, especially for small societies, in small communities, which daily deal with the lack of resources and structures and carry out an extraordinary social commitment. Think of how many boys and girls are picked up from the streets and are seen to offer the opportunity to socialize, to get used to sports competition, to form even as men. Well, with the approval of this constitutional bill, it is clear that there will have to be the commitment of the State, the Government, of all of us to develop and spread sport extensively. We will have to be able to ensure and thus facilitate access to resources. Those who are familiar with this world - like myself, who are honored to preside over a softball company, a small sport that, however, in a small town like Nuoro, in Sardinia, still plays in Serie A1 - knows what sacrifices are made each year to find the few resources necessary to ensure the proper conduct of a championship. Well, from now on we will have to work to ensure that the practice of sport spreads even more than it does today, but above all we will have to do what is necessary so that everyone can enjoy and exercise on equal terms the right that we now put in the Constitution. We are aware that it is a difficult path, but we also know the stubbornness that has been demonstrated by all those who have believed in this project and therefore I feel obliged to thank the undersecretary Vezzali, who obviously knows very well the sports world and also knows what function it carries out for the extraordinary results that she has achieved in her to say the least brilliant sports career and knows how difficult it is for professionals to achieve certain results and especially what attractive function they carry out. When extraordinary results are achieved in a sport as it was for the undersecretary Vezzali, it creates a very special attention on the part of everyone and that sport spreads even more. It always happens, especially when results are achieved worldwide, in tennis as well as in fencing, that there is a particular interest, that we will now have to cultivate more, after this right is incorporated into the Constitution. I feel the duty to thank the undersecretary Vezzali who has put so much commitment and stubbornness in the path of this bill. I feel like thanking President Parrini [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] , who also believed in it a lot. I have already said of Senator Sbrollini, who has always been involved in sports, knows the subject well and in turn she has shown that female stubbornness that generally helps us to achieve the results. We have all proved this, moreover, because we all believe at this time and we all know what this goal means and what commitment we are making. We don't really have to forget that. For these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italian, with the hope that, once again, there will be unanimity on a bill so important and that to this apparatus, which for the time being is only external, then follow concrete facts and the right to sport can be exercised by everyone, even by those small sports clubs of which I spoke before and by all those who participate, with more ease than what happens today. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u10	BARBARO (FdI). Mr President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the entire House for the previous vote, to the Members of the Commission, to the Undersecretary Vezzali and to the Conference of the Leaders, who have allowed this quick return to the Chamber. Let us not forget that a little more than three months have passed since the last vote on this bill and that last week there was the second passage to the House. Therefore, if everything proceeds according to the established programme, I believe that, considering also the three months to pass for the second reading in the House, by autumn we will finally arrive at this long-awaited inclusion of sport in the Constitution. A respectful tribute seems to me to be necessary in this context, as we have done in the past. It seemed right to do so then and to repeat it now, because the right was the first political force, thanks to Senator Maceratini, to present the first bill on the inclusion of sport in the Constitution. Road making, over the course of these twenty-five years, there have been many attempts, but they have never reached the goal. I remember that of the same undersecretary Vezzali in the XVII legislature, until today, with the first presentation of a bill in this legislature signed by Senators Iannone and Calandrini. This is an important step, which allowed us to make the draft law to Brothers of Italy with these first signatures and we are obviously proud to have made our important contribution in this direction. We now arrive at the fateful day, at least as far as the Senate is concerned. It is an important day, but it must not make us forget that from now on our responsibilities will even increase. In fact, we cannot exhaust our work in the legitimate satisfaction of this important result. We need to understand how to solve ancient, but also current, problems affecting the world of sport: programmatic, structural, cultural problems. I do not mention the financial ones, because it is not true that there are financial problems when it comes to sport, beyond interpretations. In fact, it has been shown that every money invested in sport produces returns much more than the amount invested. Nevertheless, feelings, thoughts and the way to judge the world of sport are still struggling to change. We hope that this can be a basis from which to start, so that our attitudes from now on can be activated and implemented in line with the principle that we support today. We also try to understand well why we need to keep our attention bar high in the face of problems. I am starting from the current ones, because they actually coincide with this important moment and, although this sensitivity has arisen in Parliament, they have not allowed the solution of issues that have characterised the negative approach to the world of sport. I start obviously from the absence of the Ministry of Sport, which characterized the Government Draghi, despite the great efforts of the various members, starting from the undersecretary Vezzali, of which we appreciate the daily work that it does to disassemble the prejudices or, at best, the lack of attention and sensitivity towards the sport. There are still too many players who crowd the sector and above all the lack of a Ministry of Sport is also felt in the making of the most important decisions. There are so many facts that concern exactly this part of the legislature. I am referring to the PNRR, which is certainly an important response to the issue of sports facilities, but I see a total lack of aid for sports associations, which, as you know, are the architrave of the sports structure of our country. I am also referring to the Decree-Law on competition, which assimilated sports activities to commercial and tourist-recreational activities. We know very well that it is absolutely impossible to make a legal error of this magnitude, because we are faced, on the one hand, with commercial activities and, on the other hand, with non-profit activities. Yet this umpteenth disaster has been carried out within the competition decree, penalising once again the world of sport. The one-off measure - we are talking about it these days - of the famous 200 euros has rewarded all categories of workers, excluding those in the world of sport. Even though 50% of citizens' income is reduced, they have been rewarded. All categories of workers, not just employees, have taken the money, except those of the sports world [[Applause from the FdI Group]] , and this is a gap that objectively cries out revenge. Then there are other ancient problems, which are intertwined with the experience of this moment and which concern the world of school and health. I have a table about Italy's positioning in Europe. Well, with 480 hours each week devoted to teaching motor and physical education in European schools, Italy is the last place in Europe. Beware that it is not only the last place that makes you think, but the count of hours: barely a third (1,500 hours) in the ranking of the most advanced nations at school level. It is a resounding fact, which must make us reflect, like another very important fact, on which it is absolutely necessary to draw the attention of the institutions, that of sedentaryness. Italy occupies the fourth place in the standings, which is really depressing and mortifying for our way of conceiving sport. We know, among other things, that sedentaryness is one of the main causes of disease (the WHO puts it in second place), so it is a serious problem, covering all sections of the population and not just young people. Yet, there had been a window, especially for the aspects related to the world of education and health: within the reform that changed the world of sport had been inserted an important passage, concerning the possibility of giving free rein to these two important functions, which are the basis of the changes in the way of conceiving the world of sport in Italy; I refer to the inclusion, within the board of directors of Sport and Health SpA, of a component representing the Ministry of Sport and one representing the Ministry of Health. It is precisely in these days that these two representatives have been appointed to the Commission. These two ministries, which could have given us important indications regarding the development of sport in this direction, were limited to a cold and aseptic nomination. So there are so many problems that concern the world of sport. I would like to mention many others, but time forces me to go faster. I am referring, for example, to the cultural need to change the approach to the world of sport. In Italy, sport is considered only a way of achieving technical objectives and competitiveness, whereas we must consider it - we have said so in all sauces in this House and in many other places - also in order to improve the health of our fellow citizens. These are aspects on which I would draw the attention of Parliament as a whole, so that, as I said at the beginning of the speech, this measure can be seen as the basis for truly starting a new path within the world of sport. If this is not the case, we of Brothers of Italy, while manifesting total availability, starting from the favorable vote on this provision, will continue to make the talking crickets. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u13	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this morning's passage is very important. We get there thanks to the effort, tenacity and positive tension of so many people present in this House and in the Chamber of Deputies, as well as to so many others who, out of here, engaged in politics or in sports associations, believed in the usefulness of establishing a right which, along this path (there is still one piece missing from the final goal), becomes chargeable and which therefore can involve - then - a consequence in public policies in order to guarantee to all that right to sport which means the development of a culture of sports practice and also the quality of one's own health. It is not by chance that the right to sport is placed in the Constitution, even physically, there, between the right to education and the right to health, building a bridge between an aspect of culture, which we sometimes neglect (because we do not fully consider sport a cultural practice), and - at the same time - a physical practice that is increasingly fundamental to the quality of life of people in a world where the natural sport of work, which once belonged to the physical tradition of people (work in the fields and factories), has been replaced by an increasingly sedentary and intellectual work. It is therefore necessary to recover physicality also in another way, exactly as, from the anthropological point of view, sport is born. Anthropologists say it was born as a sublimation of war. At this time we need to think that we can really find a different way to unload the natural competitions and tensions, perhaps a little too masculine, that belong to man, finding a different way, that it is education to compete without crushing the other and to learn that the tenacity I was talking about at the beginning is a fundamental component of life, without which one does not get anywhere, but it is also horality and respect of the opponent. It is the idea that, one minute after the victory, there is no one who has prevailed and someone who is defeated, but we start again together, also because no goal of the sport is ever definitive. It is also a great education to know how to lose, which is a fundamental thing in life. In a beautiful manifesto of an Italian graphic, which is depopulating, we read: Sometimes you win, sometimes you learn. I like it a lot. The concept is precisely this: when one fails to prevail, it is because one can question the elements that have not given the possibility of achieving that goal. This is a great teaching of sport. When we think about sports, we don't think about Serie A, even if these are a little special months (Monza has achieved some important results and we are particularly satisfied). We do not even think of the great champions, even if, when my Group did the honour of asking me to make this explanation of vote, I could not help but think of Gianni Bugno: we all have a myth and my myth is him, who taught us exactly these values, in sport and then in everyday life. [[Applause]] We think above all of the small sports associations and the girls and boys who throughout Italy are active to feel good first of all themselves. This goal concerns all life, not only young people; it is a goal that goes beyond the generational approach and also goes beyond the gender approach, because fortunately we have cleared the idea that there are no more men's and women's sports, but all sports are possible for everyone. All this is contained in this step, in this small step, and in this fundamental stage (to go back to cycling, for example, which certainly teaches this) to reach a goal that we are able to reach. They will join him - I hope very soon - the Members of the House of Deputies and we must join him this morning. We have to do this as unitedly as possible: we have listened, we have reasoned and we have found a common point of fall. It is clear that touching our Constitution is an important fact, as we have already said in this parliamentary term. The Constitution was designed by the constituents themselves to be updated and alive, not as a totem or taboo, but as something that produces cultural growth and legislation. This result must lead to an increase in investment, especially in sport for all, which really affects people in the many small Italian municipalities, and must give an opportunity of access that overcomes the economic and income barriers. Today, we risk that sports practice, sports culture and the quality of life that sport entails for health are becoming more and more the prerogative of only one part; this we cannot accept. Instead, we must have municipal public policies (there are many), regional and - even more and above all - state, precisely to produce the uniformity of this intervention, which leads sport to be accessible especially for those who have less, like families who have difficulty in enrolling a child to a team or a gym (which today is very fashionable). And then we go back to education and school, too. We believe a lot in education and school and we think that more must be invested in education and school, even in economic terms; we cannot intervene in school always on equal terms or even going down. We think that, within these investments, there is a fundamental one in the teaching of culture and sports practice, because the school is a place from which all children have the opportunity to pass. On this we have obtained in recent years important investments and funds, first with previous governments, in direct form, and then with the PNRR, schools, gyms of schools and sports facilities, which are the places where sport for all can be practiced. Clearly, we want to continue to invest from this point of view. These are special days, when we have opportunities for confrontation and confrontation and when we are all concerned about what is happening in the world. We are concerned about the level of conflict and the economic consequences it is having in our lives. At a time like this today we, with this vote, re-launch an idea, just like when the Olympics were born, understood as a moment to say: let's all stop, let's block the clamour of weapons, let's try to understand if we can look each other in the eyes and if the natural need of man to try to emerge can become not something that crushes, but something that improves everyone in his time and quality. I believe that this is the meaning of our Constitution. There are so many references of this kind, which are guide references and lighthouse references. The result of introducing sport into the Constitution and linking it with health and education is a great goal to be achieved and can have positive effects. That is why, of course, we Members of the Democratic Party will not only vote in favour today, as we have already done in the past, but, since the first day of the parliamentary term and even earlier, we have been deeply convinced of this passage and we are convinced and actually happy that we can achieve a result. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u16	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Vezzali, today we are discussing at third reading the proposal to include sport as one of the values protected by our Constitution. After the first two readings, concluded with a large majority approval, the third passage and then the fourth in the Chamber of Deputies are not a useless bureaucratic harp, but a clear representation, planned and wanted by the constituent Fathers, useful to show that the will of Parliament is firm and convinced. However, the opportunity is also useful to reaffirm the thanks of politics to the world of sport, for everything it puts in place to allow the growth of the sociality and well-being of the entire population of the country and in particular of the new generations. Our thanks must reach everyone: the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI), the Paralympic Committee, sports federations, promotion agencies, tens of thousands of sports clubs, valuable volunteers, technicians, managers, judges and referees and above all athletes: whether they are professionals, amateurs or mere amateurs, they are the protagonists of this fantastic world. We recognize the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sports activity in all its forms. In doing so, we recognize that sport is unequivocally a characteristic element of our society, that it is present almost in every family and that it enters every day in every house, if not with the sports activity exercised directly, at least with the attention and passion of those who appreciate and follow a team or an athlete. For children and teenagers, the athlete often takes on the role of model, but it must be positive and for this reason we appreciate the efforts made to promote fair play. We are satisfied that the wording chosen is the one indicated by our bill: using the words "sport activities" instead of "sports" gives a wider meaning, which refers not only to physical expression, exercised in an organized and regulated way, but to every activity carried out, even in an autonomous way by the individual, that is put in place to gain psychophysical benefit. Here I refer to the only slightly stunned aspect that we have already had the opportunity to emphasize in the past and on which therefore I do not dwell much. We would have liked the amendment to be included in Article 32, which deals with health, precisely to highlight the importance of sport for the purposes of psychophysical well-being. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , a fundamental element in the growth of adolescents, but also for the vital maintenance of older generations, without forgetting the fundamental contribution that sport brings to the world of disability, especially as a channel to stimulate sociality and integration. Article 33 was chosen, thus giving greater emphasis to the educational aspect: certainly legitimate choice, being the other pillar that supports the importance of sport practice. We are sure that it was not an easy choice, so there is no willingness on our part to blame those colleagues who supported it. Being unable to create an article "32 and a half," we can debrief the fact in simple nuance, in a context definitely and widely positive. We also find positivity in the fact that we have remedied a gap that we had compared to many other nations, which in a more far-sighted way have provided for a long time. Certainly it is understandable that our Constitutional Charter had not foreseen it since its birth: in 1948, the constituent Fathers still had before their eyes the instrumental and functional use of the acceptance of the fascist regime of the previous two decades, but to wait over seventy years to recognize the social value and popularity of the phenomenon was actually so much, if not too much. This is why our intention in presenting the bill was not to celebrate the valuable results of sport of excellence; it is, indeed, a way to emphasize that Olympic medals are not achieved unless there is a model of society that starts from below, protecting and promoting sport activity and practice. Sport is aggregation, respect for the rules, fight against youth deviance and social distress; it is prevention in the health field; it is friendship and brotherhood; it is sacrifice, commitment and respect for the objectives; it is, finally, the growth of human relations. If I think of the many young people who, after finishing their school hours, close in their bedrooms and immerse themselves in a virtual and digital world, I regret with nostalgia the fields of the oratory and the skinned knees. Sport is also involvement and sharing between generations. The many small clubs and sports associations born and developed in this I love to call the country of the 8,000 bell towers live and thrive thanks to the fundamental contribution of many former athletes or non-athletes who make their operation possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I think of the mothers who make hot tea, the fathers who act as collective drivers, the grandparents who cut the grass of the field, maybe the former champion who now takes care of the stock of the material. Without them, this would not be possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Without them these social micro universes, these real extended families could not exist and flourish. To them must be addressed our work and go our thought and our thanks. If we understand this, if we do what we can to protect this basic reality, then we will appreciate even more the moments of success of high-level sport. Colleagues, in less than four years our mountains will host an exceptional event, the Winter Olympics Milan-Cortina 2026. Let's make them the visible tip of an iceberg, but underneath the water's hair there is solidity and concreteness. For all these reasons I announce the strong vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u19	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today the protection of sport will definitely enter the Constitution as a primary asset. It is a small and delicate retouching to our Constitution aimed at affirming the principle of sportiness, the importance of sports activity and transforming it into a fundamental right and a guaranteed value. After seventy-four years since the entry into force of our Constitution, we have reached a historic goal, recognizing sport as a fundamental individual right, as well as education and health. We have already done so by including the environment in our Charter, the protection of which is a central issue today. Forza Italia strongly wanted and pursued the achievement of this goal, making concrete the teamwork led by President Berlusconi, with Stefania Prestigiacomo and Michela Brambilla for the environment and with our Giusy Versace for sport. Forza Italia, in both cases, presented its own bill starting from afar, from the institution of that National Sports Day that started during a Berlusconi Government. Compared to the original text, which provided for the amendment of Article 32, which relates to health, the text in question amends Article 33. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, be sportsmen because I don't have the breath of a sportsman. As I was saying, the text under consideration amends Article 33, the one concerning education, saying that the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport. We speak of educational value and therefore exemplary, because sport is the most immediate example of correct social behavior; I think of that sportiness that is a very high value and that, valued, becomes a true cultural revolution. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Forza Italia is proud to have presented one of the six draft laws examined and then become a single text, the one we are preparing to vote on today, presenting also amendments and an agenda to protect the most vulnerable and elderly people and to activate, in the most fragile areas of the country, that safety net that sport can represent for those young people who are on the margins of society. On the concrete side, I would like to share our satisfaction with the adoption of two of our amendments within the PNRR decree on sport: one dedicated to the strengthening of basic sports activity in the territories for all sections of the population, optimizing prevention interventions through physical exercise, and the other which has provided a substantial contribution to sports facilities and swimming pools. It provides that associations, sports clubs, national sports federations, amateur associations, sports promotion agencies, associated sports disciplines and public bodies of the most needing regions can access contributions for investment projects, for the installation of renewable energy installations. So, environment and sport: the best. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In order to revive voluntary activity, they also play a role in the aspects of public health promotion through physical activity, in order to ensure that further practical implementation is given to the principle that inspires them. We have all said this in this House: sport and physical activity are now of fundamental importance in the everyday life of every person, without limits of age, gender and physical status. It is one of the most effective forms of non-verbal communication, which allows, without the need for words or a common language, to interact. And it is also thanks to sports activity that many of us have managed to overcome the time of the pandemic: and it is certainly not a small thing. That is why constitutional protection is more appropriate today than ever. Any other reasons? Let's get a summary of the ones that have been exposed? Sport contributes to physical and psychophysical well-being: therefore, it is a great shock absorber also from this point of view. Sports activity is useful in the treatment of certain diseases and is fundamental in the help of some disabilities, thus becoming a concrete aid for families. Sporting helps to rationalise and reduce health spending. Sport mobility the positive feelings of millions of people: we will miss the World Championships, again this year. Sport also has a considerable economic value. The fact that we have recognized the dignity of sport in the Constitution can, therefore, give further impetus to the ordinary legislative initiative and will facilitate the industriousness of sports associations, gyms, sports associations, which at this moment have been touched even more by the pandemic, but which we hope are restarting. We thank the Undersecretary Vezzali for the commitment and passion he puts in the performance of his mandate and we hope that soon will come the moment when, even in the light of this goal, it is decided to set up an ad hoc Ministry for Sport. I have been a sportswoman and I know how much sport has helped me in my growth, with the values of loyalty, sharing, fairness, commitment and constancy. I am also a teacher and I said last time that nothing saddens me more than a school system that, at times, still does not understand that sports activities, even competitive, and school commitment can and must live together. On the contrary, their coexistence becomes a strengthening of the commitment in all sports and education disciplines. Thus, physical education, like artistic and musical education, must become a fundamental subject. For this reason, we should also invest in the construction of sports infrastructure, which is often lacking, especially in particularly sensitive regions. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I remind myself and my fellow teachers that a boy and a girl who engage in sport will always engage in school, because for them, before everything else, there is respect for the rules and discipline. As I said in my previous speech, it is enough to put them in a position to reconcile everything, not putting them in the way. In order to complete all this it is necessary to strengthen and give the right attention also to the school gyms, ensuring an adequate system of teaching held by competent and specialized teachers. We are all witnesses of the fact that sport unites a nation under its own flag, creating admiration for the best and that the only wars that should be fought should only be healthy Olympic competitions. President Berlusconi and Senator Galliani have won sports competitions [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] and today the satisfaction of this constitutional law will also come. Not to mention how therapeutic sport can be at every level. For these reasons we will also work to ensure that basic doctors can prescribe sports as therapy, providing specific exemptions for courses in sports gyms. Not to mention how harmonious sport is for people with disabilities; otherwise it's the right term because I would call them much more skilled than people. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] and most of us in revealing incredible champions, who have become examples and icons of our time. When I say champions, I mean life champions. In this regard, our appeal and our action are directed, as we said last time, so that no more talk of paralympics, but only Olympic games with different categories of competition. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But this is another story that we hope will begin with this first and important chapter that we are writing in this House today. It is right and proper that the Constitution protects sport, that it protects all forms of sports activity and the possibility of everyone exercising it in every form; it is really beautiful to find us all united, just all, in the name of sport. Sporting is the value that should be the basis of all human action and today, at a time when war is at our borders, I hope that the inclusion of sport in the Constitution will be the best hope for a message of peace among peoples. In fact, let us remember that sport means peace and, never as at this moment, we need it. I therefore thank all our champions and address a thought to Berrettini [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] who unfortunately will not be able to play; we are all close to him the same for the great champion. Addressing also a thought to the great champions of swimming [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] who have given us so much satisfaction and to all sportsmen, I declare the favorable vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u22	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement again this time reiterates in this passage to the Senate the full sharing for the recognition in Constitution of the educational, social and cultural value of sport. We approve - it should be emphasized - also the method adopted that is not that of the reforms and modifications of dozens of articles of the Constitution of the previous years, that I do not even go to remember, but the methodology of punctual reforms of our Constitution, carried on also on other occasions by the Movimento 5 Stars. These are the only ways in which citizens, in the event of a confirmed referendum, can vote with a yes or a no in a conscious manner. The new paragraph of Article 33 of our Constitution is addressed to all persons who can practice sport, to all disciplines and for this reason in time can unfold its benefits in a universal way. Sporting leads to the person, as we have all said and here I repeat, physical and mental health, sociality and serenity, fun and culture, but also education and even therapy. After this passage the text will go to the Chamber for the final examination and the last reading, at the end of which the real challenge will begin; we absolutely must have the courage and intellectual honesty to say so. From that moment on, a great deal of work will have to start to give concreteness to this new value included in our Constitution, it will need organizational criteria, but also money and funding to allow the effective and increasing participation in sports practice even more effective controls, so that sport is no longer accompanied by doping and betting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must be honest and say with force that this is only the first step in order to be able to enhance sport in all its forms, competitive and not competitive. This valorization must be both cultural and substantial; at every institutional level we must act on both fronts, make it clear to the greatest number of people that sport is life and also give them the opportunity to practice it by opening sports centres and places to train. Sport, as stated in our Constitution, can only be anywhere if we make the necessary decisions, if we give everyone the opportunity to practice it, even to those who have never done so or who cannot afford, for economic reasons, to pay a subscription or a subscription. Sports activity must also be practicable in the open air: I think not only of the pedestrian or cycling routes that exist in Italy, although not enough, but also of the fitness or workout routes - as we want to call them - mounted in pitches open to the public within our Municipalities. To date there are too few local authorities that have invested in such spaces and this - alas - is a huge vulnus, because the simple seeing people training brings a positive emulation effect. Sport at school must not only be practiced, but also taught by trained people and since elementary schools. The hour of motor education must change radically and cannot consist of a free play activity left to improvisation of the moment. Colleagues, the motor sciences will have to be more and more at the center of the teaching that students will receive. We must emphasize - the parents must tell the children, but also the teachers themselves, where they did not know - that the subject of motor education at school has the same dignity, if not even greater, as all other school subjects. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It will be the task of the Government, Parliament, local authorities and sports institutions in particular to implement the principle that we set out in our fundamental Charter. There is, however, one task for the citizens, the first guardians of the institutions' work: to demand respect and concrete implementation of this as well as of any other constitutional value. Politics is and must return to being more and more at the service of the citizens and it is up to them to demand respect for their rights. Colleagues, we live a very difficult time from all points of view. This parenthesis of the House's work appears to be a sort of small, but necessary, breath of oxygen. Sport, with its beneficial effects, both physically and mentally, can help us to live better. For all these reasons and with full conviction I declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u25	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, I am sorry to have to break this liturgy and this unanimity, because Italexit will vote no. Let us explain why: in the meantime, because we do not need to establish great principles, if we see that even the great constitutional right to work has been humiliated; there are healthy workers who are in fact excluded from the world of work as a result of your choices on the vaccination obligation by category. So, we have healthy people out of work. And to think that Italy is a democratic Republic founded on work! Moreover, there is no need for a constitutional change to pay and hire physical education teachers; there is no need for a constitutional change to restructure public school gymnasiums: it is a question of choices, of where to put the money. But you prefer to give money to Benettons rather than put money in public gyms, to strengthen the role of sport in public institutions. If you don't have the money today, in fact, you can't do sports. There are teachers, gyms and coaches - marked by the policies of the last two governments - who still have to be compensated. That does not need a constitutional change: paid. You forced our children to make swabs and vaccines to play outdoors. You don't realize what you've done. Now you propose the value of sport, but then why not the constitutional value of happiness? Among other things, regarding money and sport, I would like to have precise and timely reporting of all the expenses of representation and propaganda of the CONI, I would like to understand where the money of the CONI goes, because if I am not mistaken the CONI should be inside a public constellation. Do you show us, once and for all, this money, or are we building kingdoms for the use and consumption of the Malagò on duty? We are not opposed to sport, but to the propaganda you have done about sport, to the fact that you do not invest in sport and instead - I repeat again - you forced our children to make swabs and vaccines to do sports even outdoors. Italexit will vote no. [[Applause from Senators De Vecchis, Giarrusso and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u26	I note that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, the draft constitutional law is approved in the second resolution if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u27	Being an important vote, before proceeding to the final vote of the constitutional bill n. 747-2262-2474-2478-2480-2538-B, I have, pursuant to article 107, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, the determination of the number of present. (Follows the determination of the number of persons present.) The number of people present is 211. In view of the outcome of the test, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u28	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, for the second resolution on the constitutional bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in second resolution with a majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I support our work, which will resume at 2 p.m. with the joint general discussion of the draft European delegation bill 2021 and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union. (The sitting was suspended at 10:33 a.m. and resumed at 14:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u29	The next item is the joint debate on draft law No 2481, already approved by the House of Deputies, and documents LXXXVI, No 5, and LXXXVII, No 5. The rapporteur on draft law No. 2481, Senator Masini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an important piece of legislation in this House which is one of the cornerstones of the relationship between the Italian institutions and the European institutions. The draft law under consideration is particularly important for two reasons. First of all, it allows Italy to fulfil its obligations arising from membership of the European Union, responding to the obligation to implement directives and regulations, thus avoiding the opening of new infringement procedures against Italy. The measure is also important from the point of view of merit, because it deals with areas that directly affect the lives of Italian citizens and businesses. The work we have done in the 14th Commission has been as cross-cutting and inclusive as possible to take account of the various requests from all the parliamentary groups, whether by majority or by opposition. Personally, as rapporteur, on the measure I tried to accept as much as possible the contributions that emerged during the examination by mediating between the different positions, including those of the Government, in order to recover proposals on which initially there was no convergence. I refer, for example, to those relating to Article 4 on consumer protection, or to Article 17 on veterinary medicinal products. But a number of other issues have involved the Commission in examining the measure, such as the transmissibility of animal diseases related to the import and possession of exotic species; or the long-standing and hateful problem of late payments by the public administration, on which there has already been a ruling by the European Court of Justice and on which there is a risk of a second condemnation by Italy, this time with financial penalties. Unfortunately, the work has been slowed down by the concomitant examination of the annual competition law, in which the subject of the European infringement on bathing concessions has been included, which, in my opinion, should have been the natural seat of the European delegation law, where an amendment has been tabled. Overall, I welcome the work that has been done on a measure which now allows the implementation of fourteen directives, of which three with specific delegation criteria, twenty-two regulations and a European recommendation. The draft law consists of twenty articles, in which Article 1, as usual, lays down the rule of delegation for the implementation of the acts mentioned in Article and Annex A and the reference to the general terms, procedures and principles and guiding criteria, as set out in Articles 31 and 32 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 234. Paragraph 3 refers the coverage of the charges to the phase of the elaboration of the implementing decrees drawing from the fund for the transposition of the European legislation, referred to in article 41-a of the aforementioned law n. 234 of 2012, or to ad hoc legislative measures. Article 2 delegates the Government to the adoption, within eighteen months of the entry into force of the law in question, of the sanctioning rules for violations of directives transposed in a regulatory or administrative manner, or of regulations published until the date of entry into force of the law. The delegation shall be exercised without prejudice to the criminal rules in force and in compliance with Article 33 of Law No 234 of 2012 and the general principles and guidelines referred to in Article 32, paragraph 1, letter d), of the same law. Article 3 sets out the specific principles and criteria for delegation for the implementation of Directive 2121 of 2019 amending Directive No 1132 of 2017 as regards cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions. Article 4 lays down specific criteria for the implementation of Directive 2161 of 2019 amending four previous Directives with a view to improving the application and modernisation of Union consumer protection rules. In this context, the Commission unanimously approved (including opposition) an amendment aimed at avoiding so-called gold plating. In fact, that part of point (e) which provided for the extension of the sanctioning rules to further aspects, not required by the European Regulation, on consumer protection, has been deleted. Article 5 lays down specific criteria for the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of European Regulation 1503 of 2020 on crowdfunding service providers for businesses. The reference to European Directive No 1504 of 2020 amending European Directive No 65 of 2014 on markets in financial instruments has been deleted, as it has already been implemented elsewhere. Article 6 sets out a specific delegation for the implementation, within 12 months, of the Recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) of 22 December 2011, No 3, on the macro-prudential mandate of national authorities and the implementation of Articles 23-b (7) and 28 (2) of Regulation No 1011 of 2016. The article also dictates specific criteria to which the Government must adhere, in addition to the general ones referred to in Article 32 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 234. Two amendments have improved the delegation criteria for the plans to be prepared by credit institutions in the event of a change in the benchmark, i.e. the benchmarks used by credit institutions. Article 7 gives a delegation to the Government, with specific criteria, for the adaptation of national legislation to European Regulation No 23 of 2021 on a framework for the consolidation and resolution of central counterparties, key intermediaries, of financial markets. Article 8 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to the provisions of European Regulation No 557 of 2021 on securitisation and establishes a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation in order to support the recovery of the crisis resulting from the pandemic by Covid-19, setting out the delegation criteria. Article 9 delegates the Government for the complete adaptation of the national legislation to European Regulation No 1939 of 2017, on the implementation of enhanced cooperation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPS), already transposed by Decree-Law No 9 of 2 February 2021, amending the rules of jurisdiction provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, so as to concentrate in the district judicial offices the treatment of criminal proceedings that offend the financial interests of the European Union in respect of which the European Public Prosecutor may exercise his competence, regardless of whether that jurisdiction is exercised. Article 10 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 848 of 2018, on organic production and labelling of organic products, and to Regulation No 625 of 2017, on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed legislation, animal health and animal welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products. The article also lays down the relevant specific delegation criteria. An amendment included the reference to biological activities and national reference laboratories. Article 11 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 1727 of 2018, establishing the European Union Agency for Criminal Judicial Cooperation (Eurojust) and establishing the delegation criteria. Article 12 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 1805 of 2018, on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation measures and states the delegation criteria. Article 13 lays down specific criteria for the implementation of European Directive No 1937 of 2019 on the protection of persons reporting breaches of Union law. Article 14 empowers the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 816 of 2019 establishing a centralised system to identify Member States with information on convictions against third-country nationals and stateless persons and to supplement the European criminal record information system. To this end, the article lays down the specific criteria for delegation. With an amendment by the rapporteur, Article 15 was inserted, which delegates the Government to adapt the national law to the provisions of Regulation No 784 of 2021 on combating the spread of terrorist content online. Article 16 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 6 of 2019 on the manufacture, placing on the market and use of medicated feed and lays down the delegation criteria. Article 17 empowers the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 6 of 2019 on veterinary medicinal products and lays down the delegation criteria, among which it has been added, with an amendment unanimously approved (including opposition), a criterion to allow the advertising of immunological veterinary medicinal products. In addition, an amendment was adopted to provide for the veterinary surgeon to be able to deliver veterinary medicinal products from his stock to the breeder in order to ensure the immediate protection of animal welfare and then to register them in a digital system. Article 18 delegates the Government to adapt national legislation to European Regulation No 1099 of 2009 on the protection of animals during slaughter, and states the delegation criteria. Article 19 delegates to the Government the adaptation of national legislation to European Regulation No 1009 of 2019, which lays down rules on the making available on the market of fertilising products of the European Union, and lays down the delegation criteria. To these has been added a criterion aimed at foreshadowing the development of organic legislation on fertilizers and an extension of the sanctioning system also with regard to the use of sewage sludge. Finally, with an amendment approved by the opposition, a delegation criterion has been introduced to avoid new bureaucratic burdens that are not indispensable for farms. Article 20 delegates to the Government the adaptation of national legislation to European Regulations No 1071 of 2009, No 1072 of 2009 and No 1073 of 2009, on the road transport of goods and persons, as well as to the provisions of European Regulations No 1054 of 2020 and No 403 of 2016, on the working conditions of drivers and on the use of tachographs, Regulation No 165 of 2014, on tachographs in the field of road transport, and Regulation No 1055 of 2020, amending Regulations No 165 of 2014 on tachographs in the field of road transport. 1071 and 1072 of 2009, and No 1024 of 2012, in order to adapt them to the evolution of the road transport sector. To this end, the article lays down the specific criteria for delegation. Finally, with an amendment by the rapporteur, the last article (ex Article 20) on the implementation of Directive 1151 of 2020 on the harmonisation of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages has been deleted, as it has already been implemented by Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021, introducing urgent economic and tax measures to protect employment and for the purposes of meeting the deadline for transposition of the Directive, set at 31 December 2021, and thus avoiding the initiation of an infringement procedure. The same Directive No 1151 of 2020 was therefore expounded from Annex A to the draft law, where five other Directives have been added, namely Directive No 2184 of 2020 on the quality of water intended for human consumption, for which I have tabled an amendment setting out the specific criteria for delegation, Directive No 1187 of 2021 on the implementation of the trans-European transport network, Directive No 1883 of 2021 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals intending to carry out highly qualified work, Directive No 2118 of 2021 on the control of the insurance obligation for civil liability of motor vehicles and, finally, Directive No 2261 of 2021 on the key information to be provided to undertakings managing collective investment in real estate values. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked to speak in order to supplement the written report by Senator Simone Bossi, rapporteur on document LXXXVI, No 5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2022 represents the general vision of the Government on the future prospects of the European Union. It indicates the government's political intentions on the individual European dossiers that are expected to be developed during the year. One year, the current one, unfortunately marked by the human tragedy of the war in Ukraine, which is at the same time producing heavy consequences on the economic and social life of our countries, already hard tested by the pandemic crisis, configuring itself as a heavy setback in the hopes of recovery and development that had emerged following the entry into force of the Next generation EU and the recovery fund. In this sense, the planning report for 2022 opens with a brief premise of the Undersecretary Amendola, who refers to the European Year of Young People 2022 as an inspiration to face with courage and determination the challenges of the present and which must now be renewed in order to face the humanitarian, energy and economic challenges posed by the war in Ukraine and to move towards the necessary reforms of the European Union in the direction of pragmatic and ideal federalism, starting from the lessons learned during the pandemic and from the proposals formulated in the context of the Conference on the future of the European Union. The text of the report submitted to Parliament on 16 May this year presents a comprehensive structure consistent with the forecasts of Article 13 of Law No 234 of 2012 and is divided into four parts, each preceded by a brief summary, which sets out the positions and actions that the Government intends to take in practice in relation to the individual policies of the European Union. The first part, entitled "Development of the European integration process" is devoted to policies and initiatives aimed at strengthening the process of European integration both economically and institutionally. The second part, entitled 'Strategic policies', develops into five strategic objectives specific to the Commission's 2022 work programme, namely the European green deal, a Europe ready for the digital age, an economy serving people, the promotion of the European lifestyle, a new impetus for European democracy. Part Three - A stronger Europe in the world. On the other hand, Italy and the EU's external dimension are concerned with building Europe's strategic autonomy consistent with Italian interests, enabling us to address the economic and social emergency and guarantee the security of our citizens, starting from the four priority areas of the European Union's external dimension: common foreign and security policy, common security and defence policy, trade policy, external projection of industrial policy, external projection of digital policies and connectivity. Finally, Part Four is entitled "National Coordination of European Policies." Communication and training on the work of the European Union Mr President, for the rest of the illustration, I refer in more detail to the written text of the report, which has already been printed and distributed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u32	He asked to speak to supplement the written report by Senator Lorefice, rapporteur on document LXXXVII, No 5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I too will give a summary of the report and then leave the written text of the report to the record, which has already been submitted to the Commission. In essence, the summary report on Italy's participation in the European Union is nothing more than the main instrument for the exercise of Parliament's ex post control over the conduct of the Government in the European Union's decision-making bodies, clearly referred to the previous year. The text of the summary report is consistent with the structure provided for by the internal norm, Law No 234 of 2012, is essentially divided into four main parts and is supplemented by 5 appendices. Synthetically, the first part is devoted to developments in the process of European integration and institutional issues. I refer specifically to the most important ones, namely the debate on the future of the European Union, the European Year of Young People 2022, the rule of law, the so-called better regulation, i.e. the legislative instruments that allow better lawmaking and the new post-Brexit relations with the United Kingdom. The second part of this first general part focuses on macroeconomic policy coordination activities and addresses the issues of reducing economic divergences within the Union and strengthening Europe's role in the global economy. The second part of the document, the most substantial, has a somewhat different structure this year than in previous years. In fact, it does not cover all horizontal and sectoral policies, but in this case it has focused on the so-called strategic policies, which are identified as: environmental sustainability and economic growth, including the "Fit for 55" package, health, energy infrastructure and transport, biodiversity, agriculture, tourism and defence. Secondly, the focus is on innovation and digitisation, including the very sensitive issue of data and privacy management, intellectual property, the cloud, and digitisation in the areas of health, justice, transport, defence, culture, tourism and agriculture. Thirdly, we are addressing the issue of social cohesion. The third part, on the external dimension of the European Union, describes the work of the Government in relation to the process of integration, in particular of the Western Balkans, cooperation with the countries of the Mediterranean area, the common commercial policy, the strengthening of the European Union's unified position on international issues, as well as the European Union's action in the Afghan and Belarusian crises and the strengthening of what is called European defence, with particular reference to the strategic compass and cooperation between NATO and the European Union. The fourth part deals with national coordination of European policies, with particular regard to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u34	I note that the motions for resolutions to the programme and summary reports may be tabled before the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u35	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, Mr Masini, Mr Bossi and Mr Lorefice, have outlined this measure. As far as I am concerned, I will only make general comments. The years of the Covid have certainly shown that there is a unity of intent in the European countries highlighted by the common strategy against the pandemic and the common purchase of vaccines. The Union now shows a unity of intent on the Ukrainian issue, actually with the participation of NATO. If, as Mr Berlusconi proposed, the powers of foreign and defence policy had been delegated to the Union by the creation of a single army, Europe would now speak with a single voice and be able to weigh its economic interests better. Of course, with regard to the issues of environmental protection and the exit from the use of fossil fuels, the European timetable will have to be delayed. Until last year we took for granted the exit from the use of coal-fired power stations (in Sardinia we have two, one in Portovesme and one in Porto Torres) and we thought of how to convert these power plants with less impacting fuels. Today, coal-fired power plants would become, among them Civitavecchia power plants, more than ever necessary to prevent electric blackouts in autumn, winter or at least to avoid what is supposed to happen, i.e. an important rationing of energy consumption. The question of energy and supply will have repercussions on our entire economy, so much so that the same Government has presented downward estimates on growth that could lead us to a level close to the review. At the same time, therefore, the European decarbonisation targets become too ambitious and the EU's new own resources, which are also based on the environmental objectives set, become chimeric. The international, political and programmatic framework has obviously changed, just as the strategies and commitments to be achieved have changed. In fact, in addition to the interventions to tackle the pandemic, a plan of loans and grants was launched through the main one of which we gave birth to the PNRR. Just as the fiscal rules that have allowed us budgetary flexibility have been suspended, but also those on state aid that have allowed us to carry out support by way of derogation from the European framework, we should ensure that the choices made temporarily in the European framework, when necessary, can become structural. We refer above all to the tax rules, to a different calculation of the debt, that does not include that made for investments, but also to the too strict rules that trigger the infringement procedures. In addition to the reports, the measure on which we are called to express ourselves is the law of a European delegation, which is a fundamental measure for adapting the Italian legal system to EU law, but which cannot be a noose around the neck. We intend to avoid the risk of convictions linked to infringement procedures, which involve enormous costs and long litigations to Italy; however, it cannot be assessed or not evaluated that the six convictions that have inflicted us have led to charges for more than 750 million for our country. If it is to transpose the European directives, it is to ensure more rights, more protection and greater opportunities for our citizens, our families and European consumers, when we have to draw from the state budget to deal with large sums such as those mentioned, it is clear that we are taking them away from services for our citizens. So, yes to the harmonization of the rules, but with less binding procedures, especially at a time when the objectives planned only three years ago were, of course, changed. Also because we are often faced with European demands that penalise the Italian production sectors, sometimes in favour of other European countries. That is why even more, at this moment, we need our active participation as a country in both the ascending and the descending phases, to protect the national interest even before the European one. To intervene in the formation and implementation of European legislation must go hand in hand with national legislative activity, and for this reason we trust in the authority of President Draghi. In this regard, territorial continuity, which is an issue enshrined at European level and also in the Constitutional Law, which should be finally approved by the House in early July, must be an issue adequately dealt with at European level. It is precisely the Treaty on the Functioning of Europe that provides that the Union aims to reduce the delay of the less favoured regions, but also to create the link networks (Articles 174 and 170 of the Treaty). Therefore, we ask the Italian Government to intervene by proposing European legislation to bridge the economic and territorial gap between Sardinia and the European islands, because this is provided for in the Treaty of the Functioning of the European Union, which is a founding act of the European Union itself. Mr President, I shall conclude by asking for permission to hand over the rest of my speech. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u36	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u37	Mr President, European policies aimed at improving the sustainability of the agricultural and agri-food system cannot fail to take account of the peculiarities of our production system. The most dramatic effects of current climate change are being measured on agriculture. This summer's severe drought is bringing companies to their knees, which are facing an unprecedented water crisis. We are talking about a historical drought, harder, much harder than that of 2003 and 2017. The estimates speak of 3 billion damage already caused by this drought. The wheat being harvested is among the least at risk crops, with an expected drop of no less than 30 percent. Added to the loss is the 170% increase in the cost of fertilizers and the price of agricultural gas oil, almost tripled in one year. Fruit and vegetables, soy and corn are the most endangered crops. Rice deserves to speak to itself. Without rain, the administrations of Pavia, Novara and Vercelli will have to choose between the preservation of the harvest and the rationing of water for civil use. The consequences are serious and dramatic also for energy production, already in distress due to the gas crisis. Over 175 municipalities in Piedmont, 36 in Lombardy and 14 Emilia-Romagna are served by Civil Protection. As far as the hydropotable service is concerned, the situation is now a real emergency. For agriculture and farms, especially the North and the Centre, they are suffering this dramatic climate change. Italy, however - let us be clear - is in the European context the country with more water, with 302 billion cubic meters of rain per year, of which 53 billion cubic meters usable; of these, however, we manage to store only 11 percent, that is 5.3 billion cubic meters. We have a great wealth of watercourses (7,594), lakes (324) and over a thousand large groundwaters, but at the same time, we have a lack of infrastructure never renewed since the war: 600,000 kilometers of water supply, which on average lose 42 percent of water. Irrigation then in Italy is a fundamental condition for having a competitive agriculture on the global markets and consequently an agri-food system of excellence. In fact, to be threatened is also the competitiveness of the agri-food made in Italy, already hit by the increases in energy costs resulting from the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and those of raw materials, these events that, combined with the climate emergency in place, risk creating irreversible damage to the Italian agri-food system. The Italian model is at the heart of the debate on green policies developed within Europe. The sector is one of the most competitive at European level, yet the project seems to be to bring about a dismantling, in the name of a universal diet based on the consumption of synthetic and ultra-processed foods, from vegetable meat to milk made with fermented proteins. Italian meat is born from the systems of breeding that for safety, sustainability and quality are among the best in the world, making it a food of absolute excellence, whose consumption is indicated in a healthy and balanced daily diet. As for synthetic milk, we are talking about putting into crisis over 25,000 stables, a sector that in our country is worth 16 billion between harvesting, production and processing. We therefore call on this House today, through this intervention, to act in a structural way, primarily by investing in the modernisation and security of European water networks, with a view to stimulating actions in the implementation of small invaders. Today, the catch capacity is 11 percent, that is, we have 11 billion cubic meters of water invaded in our country: think that, according to the 1980 studies, the need was to be 18 billion. More than 45% of the resources are missing from the appeal. On the other hand, the particularly important National Recovery and Resilience Plan offers €1.320 billion to the irrigation system. The problem is that this amount must only be used for efficiency and extraordinary maintenance; no new plants can be built. From this point of view, too, we call on the Government to have this funding changed in Europe, especially in the light of the future CAP, because there is also an important link on these issues. We are on the side of our farmers, producers, consumers for food and, above all, the quality of our products and production and, if we have water, we must contain it to use it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u38	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not vote for this law of European delegation because, unfortunately, with such a varied political structure, there are bad things that contrast or cancel the good things and vice versa. I also think that, among the good things, more room should also be given to Parliament for debate. That is why, apart from the fact that I am going to vote against, I would like to mention those which, as far as I am concerned, are two examples of good political activity, because they are sensitive to these issues. In particular, I would like to recall an amendment voted in the House concerning the transposition of the directive on the protection of animals during slaughter; a cruel practice that a civil country like ours continues to accept and keep hidden from our priorities. The citizens do not know how cruel it is. Among other things, he talks about synthetic milk and synthetic meat, but we must work on the reduction of cruelty and also on our consumption, which also affects what are the climate changes that everyone is talking about. [[Applause from the CAL-ALT-PC-IDV Group]] , but to which in the end it is not possible to solve because there is only so much hypocrisy. Look, I'm talking about something that citizens don't know about eggs. The latter produce female and male chicks; the females serve to produce the eggs, the little males, the small chicks are thrown on the conveyor belt, then in a blender and are shredded alive to make flours that are then used by herbivores against their nature. The citizens must know that this barbarity must stop and we, with this amendment tabled to the House, will go and ban the killing of chicks by 2027. Let us think a little; it seems a small thing, but it is the horror behind human civilization. In France, in other European countries, the ban on the killing of chicks was introduced at the beginning of January 2022. Instead, we still need five years to organize ourselves. But I wonder to organize what. There are lobbyists behind these situations and unfortunately we are talking about the protection of workers and businesses all the time. I would like to give another example, leaving out this important issue for now, even though we will have to come back to the point in order to ban the death of these killed chicks by transposing the norm as soon as possible. We are talking about another very important amendment introduced by the rapporteur in the Senate, which concerns European Directive No 2184 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2020 on the quality of water intended for human consumption. The Senator has introduced delegation criteria which I consider to be of common sense because they relate mainly to the system of management, control and analysis of the quality of water for human consumption, which therefore go in the direction of, for example, the introduction of legislation on procedures for the granting of approvals for the use of chemical reagents, filtration media and means of treatment in contact with drinking water, certification bodies and labelling indications, introducing legislation aimed, for example, at the revision of the surveillance and surveillance system, especially for priority buildings, such as hospitals, kindergartens, schools, campgrounds and bars. We must be sure of what we drink, otherwise water, a very important resource, will become more and more expensive and this will risk killing us because we need water. I do not know whether the rapporteur has tabled the amendment here too: perhaps it would be appropriate to approve it and incorporate it into the criteria of delegation to the Government. In any case, it is important that the directive has been included in the annex to the delegation law, so that the government can quickly transpose this directive, which is very important to us. This directive deals in fact with a fundamental issue: to respond to the growing public concern about the effects on human health of emerging compounds; to talk about what is new, of which we know little and which is therefore not subject to control. I am talking, for example, about endocrine disruptors, as well as some pharmaceutical products, such as antibiotics that we cannot break down, and microplastics. The same microplastics, according to science, become endocrine disruptors and therefore also of the formation of the placenta. The human placenta contains in fact microplastics; at the time of the formation of the placenta, the recognition by the child that is forming these microplastics means that plastic is considered not a foreign body, but an element that belongs to our body: it is something terrible and terrifying. We're changing, we're becoming carbon, as the basis of life, and plastic. This directive therefore introduces the control and management of these new problems, such as endocrine disruptors, antibiotics - which are unfortunately an old problem - and microplastics. In addition, the indicators provided for in the Directive do not have a direct impact on human health, but they are an important tool for establishing how water production and distribution plants intended for human consumption operate and for assessing water quality. These parameters can help identify malfunctions in water treatment and play an important role in strengthening and maintaining consumer confidence in water quality. Therefore, Member States should ensure that these parameters are monitored. I would like to add that I proposed in the "save sea" law - even here everyone wants to protect the sea (do you see how things are connected between them?) - to place a label on the clothes to give information on the washing. We will never be able to solve the problem of purifiers, civil waste water or water purifiers for human consumption if we do not put up filters, if we do not change our technology, such as washing machines, just to say one. Unfortunately, especially in Italy, we are afraid to dare and we always come after others, when we would have the opportunity to do better, with our research, with our creativity and our ability to look for innovative strategies and solutions. We are talking about technology, digitization and insight into all the issues that concern research for the future. Why do I not want to vote on this delegation law? Because we in Europe do not exist, we are old, we do not bring innovation, we do not bring ourselves and we do not defend innovation, our way of being innovative. We always defend only the lobby [[Applause from Senator Abbot]] That is why, as an example of good parliamentary activity, I welcome this draft law, but not some of the measures contained in it, which nevertheless go to defend the lobbies. [[Applause from the CAL-ALT-PC-IDV Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u41	Mr President, this law of European delegation gives us the opportunity to return to an issue that is dear to us and which represents an injustice to the Italians that we cannot accept. If everyone has now thrown the sponge on the issue of Italian bathing, Brothers of Italy has no intention of doing so. As we have committed ourselves to the competition measure, we will table our amendments on every measure that will give us the opportunity, on the ground, to do so, because for us the expropriation of Italian work represents an intolerable activity by the Government and the majority. For this reason, we have also tabled an amendment to this measure, at the first signature of Senator Fazzolari, which will speak in an explanation of vote, but signed by all the Senators members of the Group of Brothers of Italy, to ask the Government to have a rethink on this matter and to make a serious effort to ensure that Italy is not committed a self-proclaimed wrong, because if the father of the directive, Commissioner Bolkestein, said that it does not apply to State concessions, we do not understand why the Government and those who claim it want to be more realistic than the king. It could be assumed that we are faced with an activity deliberately aimed at penalising the work of these people who for years have written a valuable history of Italian production that envys us the whole world and that has remained, after the competition decree, truly unarmed in not being represented after being illusory by so many political forces. We will, consistently, continue to interpret the line we have married from the first moment, saying no to the Bolkestein directive, no to the expropriation of Italian work and ensuring that you have to pronounce every time there is the possibility until the end of this legislature. Last time, in fact, we also witnessed a quirky controversy, according to which we did not retable in this House the amendment that had been rejected in the Commission. Well, we have also tabled Amendment 20.0.4 to this law, you have already rejected it in the Commission, we will see in a few hours how you are going to decide again on this matter. It makes you smile to hear that a result has been achieved and then in the new legislature we will see. Those who think of it as the Italian beaches have the duty to decide today on this matter because these people, their families, their employees, their customers cannot be treated in this way, to be literally vile, as happened, even with a shameful press campaign evidently financed by those economic powers that want to benefit from this expropriation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We've heard that these people were scroungers on the back of the state, who paid poor canons. But who set the fees for them, but the state? There are political forces that claim that these people pay just 100 million euros of concessions for a turnover of about 14 billion, forgetting to say that on those 14 million they pay taxes (VAT) so it is not only the fees, but also all that is paid to the State in terms of taxes. And anyway, if the fees are low, the solution is not to take the beaches off our beaches to give them to the multinationals. It is not acceptable what happened in terms of political decision in the absence of a serious mapping of our property. It is not possible to think that history ends here, in this way, without caring for the fate of 30,000 enterprises and of everything they have represented, they represent and can represent for our nation. Brothers of Italy, as our leader Giorgia Meloni teaches us every day, is the party of the homeland. Everywhere there is an Italian who suffers an injustice (and here is more than one), we feel the duty to fight this battle to the end. We also hope that the reason, as well as the sentiment, of those in this House who are to represent the people will arise. Some of my previous colleagues have said that Community law cannot strangle our national sovereignty. It seems to me that, in the case of our beaches, it was we who took the noose and stuck it around our necks, otherwise we do not explain the completely different attitude that is reserved for other European realities, such as Spain and Portugal, for which there is no problem with the Bolkestein directive, which at all costs is intended to apply to our beaches, first (but we fear that the turn of other categories will also come). Brothers of Italy will always and in any case oppose the principle of defending Italian work. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u42	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank you, the Government, the rapporteur and the two rapporteurs. I would like to congratulate the whole of the 14th Commission and its President for their work. We need to contextualize the adoption of the bill that we are preparing today exactly in relation to the facts that other colleagues and colleagues have also recalled: we have gone through the pandemic and we are unfortunately in a situation of crisis due to the war waged by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. We have seen in these two years the fundamental value of Europe and the capacity and authority that Italy has had in building the necessary responses in Europe exactly to these crises. I therefore believe that, with the approval of the European delegation bill, we not only complete a formal passage, but we also do a further important operation, which strengthens relations between Italy and Europe, between Italian citizens and European citizens. I think this is particularly important and that is why it is not a bureaucratic step and I want to stress it. I would also like to mention the importance of the Conference on the future of Europe, which has just ended, because it has represented an important opportunity for the democratic participation of citizens and citizens, putting at the centre the future steps we must take in Europe, which are contained precisely in the texts that we are about to adopt today, which strengthen exactly this link. These contents concern the environment and environmental policies and, in particular, the quality, development and growth of employment, the values on which Europe is founded and must be consolidated, the rule of law, digital transformation, the ability to build coherence and coordination on education and training policies, reception, integration, foreign and defence policy and security. Europe is not only a legitimately open market, which must increasingly have rules of reciprocity; it is above all a Europe that we must build, that of values, of peoples, the democratic participation of citizens, those who build and participate, as we are doing in the ascending phase, in European policies, perhaps being increasingly present. The Democratic Party and the forces that refer to that part of reference in Europe are increasingly present, precisely to build all the policies and conditions for the best solutions to be assumed in Europe, even for Italian citizens and citizens. I think that this is particularly important for the political construction of Europe, also because - I insist on this point - we are a credible country and we have demonstrated with the seriousness and the political proposals of being a credible country, of having a credible government and a Parliament that has been able to seriously accompany the choices at this stage. The draft law under consideration and the additions that have been presented contain rules that serve to better protect citizens and citizens. As has been said, with this measure we are setting out, for example, a path towards introducing rules that remove unjustified barriers to freedom of establishment in the single market, rules on the protection of consumers that are strategically important, rules on the European Public Prosecutor for crimes that harm financial interests in the Union, rules on public health that concern us for our well-being and growth, standards - I say this to everyone - on the welfare of animals that are also an important point, in my opinion, of the quality and care of the environment, standards on environmental protection and the safety of road transport. Thanks to Europe we strengthen the levels of protection, guarantee and protection for our citizens: this is the first important message that comes to us today with the approval here in the Senate of this bill of European delegation. We also support this measure by sending out, in my opinion, a second message, a very precise signal to a Europe which, looking to the future and today, must be a community founded first and foremost, and increasingly, in the face of the international dynamics that we are witnessing, on the defence of common rights, freedoms and values. In order to build the new Europe, we must first of all defend the rule of law in the coming months. Let us be clear once again, even in this House: there can be no room for illiberal rules or practices in Europe for us, which undermine the independence and autonomy of the judiciary, which attack the dignity of the autonomy and self-determination of women, of the LGBTQI communities, because these are the foundations of a policy of democratic coexistence in Europe and to which our rule of law increasingly refers. This is because we have a history and we have these strong elements in our Constitution. There are also many social policies. We need to be able to tackle, on the ground of social labour policies, employment and support for businesses, exactly what is now becoming an important element on which to coordinate at European level in these policies. Much has been done: I am thinking of the rights of workers and workers in digital platforms; I am thinking of what we call a minimum wage in Italy, but that means a fair wage; I am thinking of investing and having policies that concern the quality of employment. I believe that all this means having a precise vision, and having more Europe as was said in the three reports, no less Europe. I am referring here to those who continue, in the logic of nationalism, to imagine closures rather than bridges. It is in the capacity to build integration that the best choices are contained, even on the complex but fundamental terrain of emigration. I think that with the choice we are making today, also with this measure, also with this draft law delegation, we are taking an extra step, important and capable of bringing the United States of Europe closer and closer together. The Democratic Party, in addition to thanking for the work done in the 14th The Commission and all the committees that contributed to the final outcome, I believe, is particularly pleased with the content of the bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u44	As already communicated to the Assembly, we suspend the work of the Assembly which will resume at the end of the Conference of the Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u45	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for the Assembly's work until 14 July. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides for the discussion of the following topics: explanations of vote and final vote on the law of European delegation and related reports; communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on the related bill amending the Industrial Property Code; report by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys on a conflict of attribution concerning former Senator Stefano Esposito. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. The timetable for next week provides for the discussion of ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs and the following motions: measures to safeguard Italian beekeeping; National oncology plan; initiatives against "dear energy"; Italian candidacy for the headquarters of the Authority for the fight against recycling; crisis of cinemas. Matchings to the motions must be received by 7 p.m. on Monday 4 July. Motions will be given for illustrations and for each of them the Groups will have five minutes in general discussion and five minutes in explanation of vote. Thursday 7 July will begin the discussion of the document for the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate following the constitutional revision concerning the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Amendments to the document should be tabled no later than 10 a.m. on Tuesday 5 July. The schedule of the week from 12 to 14 July provides for the discussion of the decree-law on aid, energy and investment, which is being examined in the Chamber of Deputies, and the follow-up to the reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Thursday 7 and Thursday 14 July, at 3 pm, the question time will take place. The timetable can be supplemented with the information of the Minister for Agricultural Policies on drought problems. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Tuesday 5 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u46	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 14 July: [[Thursday, June 30 h. 9.30 - Follow-up to bill n. 2481 - Law of European delegation 2021 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) and related doc. LXXXVI, No 5 and Doc. LXXXVII, n. 5 - Programmatic and customary relations on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the draft law n. 2631 - Changes to the code of industrial property (linked to the maneuver of public finance) - Doc. XVI, point 10 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on a conflict of attribution concerning former Senator Stefano Esposito - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (15 hours)]] [[Tuesday 5 July h. 16.30-20 - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Motions on: - interventions to safeguard Italian beekeeping - National oncology plan - initiatives against "dear energy" - Italian candidacy for the seat of the Authority for the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism - crisis of cinemas - Doc. II, n. 12 - Reform of the Senate Rules following the constitutional revision concerning the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament (Thursday 7) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7:15) Wednesday 6" h. 9.30-20 Thursday 7" h. 9.30]] Amendments to document II, No 12 (Reform of the Senate Rules following the constitutional revision concerning the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament) will have to be tabled by 10 a.m. on Tuesday 5 July. [[Tuesday, July 12 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law No 50, Aid, energy and investment (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on July 16) - Follow-up Doc. II, n. 12 - Reform of the Senate Rules following the constitutional revision concerning the reduction of the number of parliamentarians (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 14, 15:00) Wednesday 13 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 14 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No... (Decree-Law No. 50, Aid, Energy and Investment) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Breakdown of times for discussion of draft law No 2481 (Law of European Delegation 2021) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 5, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 5 (Programmeal and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 46' L-SP-PSd'Az 45' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 40+5' Mixed 35' FdI 27+5' IV-PSI 24' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 23' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 50, Aid, energy and investment) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 37' L-SP-PSd'Az 36' FIBP-UDC 33' PD 32+5' Mixed 28' FdI 21+5' IV-PSI 19' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 18' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 16']]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u49	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask the Government to report urgently to the House on the scandalous decision taken today by the French court on the request for extradition of criminal terrorists who had been arrested for serious terrorist offences committed in Italy, including the murder of Calabresi. This is a scandalous decision, which contradicts in a shameful way the much-warned Quirinale Treaty, which, I would like to remind you, had a paragraph specifically devoted to cooperation in the field of justice between France and Italy. Italy cannot tolerate that after forty years [[Applause]] These criminals and murderers continue to enjoy substantial immunity in the name of the so-called Mitterrand doctrine, which we, as Italians, hoped, imagined and believed was finally archived. These criminals must pay their debt with Italian justice. I believe that we must all express our full solidarity with the families of the victims and we must demand that justice follow its course without favorable treatment in respect of an ideology that has marked a path of blood, years of lead that the Italians want to forget; so that we can really turn the page, however, justice must be done. I therefore ask on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group that the Government immediately report on this very serious incident and on the initiatives it intends to take at diplomatic level with France, so that this decision can be challenged and annulled. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u50	The request was put to the record. We will verify in the Conference of the Leaders that next Tuesday will take place the availability of the Government in order to his request.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u51	Let us continue with the joint general discussion. Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u52	Mr President, the European delegation law is one of the recurring laws that we adopt in this House together with the budget laws and which allows us to respect the obligations arising from Italy's membership of the European Union, by implementing directives and regulations and by avoiding infringement procedures. Today we are discussing it, tomorrow there will be the final vote and we will therefore approve the two reports and the European delegation law 2021. Good work has been done in the Commission in a constructive and proactive spirit. We are presenting ourselves here with a text of 20 articles, with which we will implement 14 directives, 22 regulations and a European recommendation. I would therefore like to mention a number of articles: Article 4 on the rules for consumer participation and protection; Article 9 on the European Public Prosecutor; Article 14 on the European criminal record; Article 19 on fertilising products. There is also the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals who wish to carry out highly skilled work, the directive on the supervision of insurance for civil liability for motor vehicles and the directive on the establishment of the trans-European transport network. We know how important the issue of relaunching the infrastructure of our country and its connection with European networks is. These are many issues, all linked to the European Union, which find in the law of the annual European delegation the regulatory instrument that allows us to integrate into the internal system. There is therefore satisfaction in achieving this result, which will also allow to close some infringements and prevent the opening of others. We know in this regard how important it is to legislate within the deadlines set. There are, however, some serious problems today in European relations, due to the conflict in Ukraine and the consequences for our citizens, families and businesses. The reports that we discuss together with the delegation law partly reflect these critical issues, but on the part of the Government and Europe we need a shot of kidneys that can respond to a crisis that, in the coming months, we must be able to manage. President Draghi is asking, even at the initiative of our party, for a roof at energy prices, which are weighing heavily on the budgets of families and businesses, in a way that is too heavy to bear. We need economic support and Europe's intervention to set a fair price for the gas and electricity we consume. A few days ago the President of the Draghi Council came to this House, who highlighted the importance of doing so; we can ask for sacrifices, but we cannot do so for too long. Therefore, urgent answers are needed to listen to the sufferings of those who have to arrive at the end of the month and must be able to get there. In Europe we are also talking about the reconstruction of Ukraine and the role that we must give this country. The European Council has guaranteed the status of candidate country and we have been pleased with this recognition, which will stimulate those populations today martyred by an unjust war. However, we must also immediately give a signal of attention to the countries of the Western Balkans, first and foremost Albania and Northern Macedonia, which have long been waiting for a signal for the opening of accession negotiations. As far as the relationship between Europe and Russia is concerned, there must be a reasoning which must take account of the conflict that has been opened up on their part, with the material, economic and social consequences that result from it, but without neglecting the fact that Russia is nevertheless an entity that remains at the borders of Europe: this is something that cannot be forgotten. On the issues of the economy, Forza Italia has always been in favour of a decrease in the tax pressure and the weight of the bureaucracy that weighs on our companies. That is why it is good to remember the extension of the decontributions until 2022 for recruitment in our Mezzogiorno: it is a very important measure - for which we must thank Minister Carfagna - because it recognizes the imbalance of competitiveness that weighs on many of our business realities and compensates it with a lightening of the contributory burdens. [[Applause]] Only with stable and quality employment can the territorial gaps that the PNRR has asked us to fill be reduced. Another point that I want to point out and that has seen our Group very careful is the blocking of sales of machines with combustion engines by 2035, in order to facilitate the spread of cars with zero emissions. There are estimates of the loss of 70,000 jobs only for Italy. I believe that this point must necessarily find a solution and we as a party are confident that the Council will be able to rebalance a choice that has been - I believe - too hasty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u53	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u54	Mr President, I will be telegraphic. On the contrary, I would like to thank the Presidency for allowing me this very brief speech. The European delegation's law stems from an important concept of acquiring a number of Member States' opinions and identifying paths which may in some way prevent Member States from violating and dealing with various issues. Now it is clear that the appetite comes from eating, so to speak: I have read carefully the amendment tabled by my colleague Iannone di Fratelli d'Italia concerning the question of the Bolkenstein directive, which - as you and the Government know perfectly well - was one of the arguments that stood out for the whole affair of the competition decree. The concepts expressed in the amendment are acceptable, so we cannot understand why we should not support them all together. It is a law that instructs the Government to do something, so these concepts - the exit from Bolkestein, the legitimate expectation, the impossibility to take away to the Italian national tourism companies their structures that have tirelessly realized in all these years, offering the world that looks at us a tourist offer of quality and high level, maintaining the service at the highest levels and guaranteeing it through the work of the families - seemed extremely important. We must therefore pay great attention to this and try to move forward with the concepts contained in this amending proposal. It is clear that this is an opposition proposal and that the Government must maintain a united position, so we will not want or have to split the front, but we must give a signal: we cannot adapt to a position, which I respect, that of the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party, which have always been objectively opposed to this world and this sector, their development and their development. We cannot add up our vows so, sic et simpliciter, without even making a reflection. As far as I am concerned, I do not feel like it at all, and I hope that this subject will be discussed carefully and that there will be determination to pursue, as necessary, an essential political concept. A few months after the approval of the implementing decrees of the Competition Decree, these concepts must be an integral part of the future of the tourism category and not only of the beaches - it was just them, it would be simple - because here is the world of tourism that is at stake. I could also propose the transformation on the agenda to my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy Group, but I do not think they would accept this proposal, even if it would be a step forward, because probably if the Government were forward-looking and somehow decided to give its positive opinion to a united political point of view, it would also have a greater force in the debate in Europe. I therefore ask all the colleagues of Forza Italia and the League present today, who make up this strange and sometimes difficult majority, to pay attention, because we have not yet reached the bottom of the story of the beaches. It is a strong position of Parliament and could be an important act that goes in the direction of safeguarding our companies. We will now decide what to do about the final outcome of the vote, but we cannot ignore it and turn to the other side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u55	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we are debating and approving three important acts relating to the relationship between our country and the European institutions. Allow me, as an introduction, to reiterate that, as is also certified by the results of the work of the Conference on the future of the Union, people have a strong feeling of distance from the European institutions. The lack of representativeness of national parliaments and the lack of involvement of national parliaments in the European decision-making process leads to apathy among voters which is reflected in abstention and then in disinterest in what is happening in Brussels, but not only. Given that the impact of decisions taken in Europe on our future and on our industrial and employment systems is becoming increasingly apparent - and I quote, for example, the approval of the various plans for ecological transition and the declared objectives of climate neutrality - it is essential to draw proper attention to discussions such as today's. In this regard, I would like to stress that Italy must be more incisive in the ascending phase, practically as the countries of Northern Europe did when they pushed to impose disposable cellulose, as opposed to plastic, of which we are the first producers at European level, but also excluding bioplastics. On the basis of the European delegation law, I would like to stress the commitment made by the Government - and I thank you - on a subject which is very dear to me, through the approval in the Commission of an agenda of the League at my first signature. This is the commitment to create an independent national institution for the protection and promotion of human rights, through the establishment of a specific body with the aim of protecting the fundamental rights recognised by the Italian Constitution and by the international conventions to which Italy is a party. It is a body that is able to work in close collaboration with international bodies responsible for the protection of human rights and with other counterparts established by other States, thus increasing the capacity for diplomatic cooperation of our country; a body that is able to make continuous contact with civil society and with non-governmental organisations, associations, foundations and the realities of volunteering. It is important that this body should have among its aims: to monitor respect for human rights in Italy, with a view to preventing possible violations; to monitor respect for the freedom and dignity of persons, with particular attention to women and children in digital society; to verify and promote the effective implementation on national territory of international human rights conventions and agreements ratified by Italy; to receive and evaluate reports of violations or limitations, including violations perpetrated on the Internet; to draw up recommendations and opinions to be sent to the Government and the Chambers on issues related to respect for human rights; to promote the culture and teaching of these, digital education, as well as the dissemination of knowledge of protection tools, including through information initiatives and awareness-raising of the public. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but there is too much chaos. [[Call the president back. Applause.]] Article 10, which delegates to the Government the adaptation to the regulation on official controls on organic production and labelling, as well as the transversality of these controls, which cover the whole agri-food chain, from food to animal feed. How can we fail to stress the European abomination of nutrition score and the need to fight Italian soiling in any way? [[Applause]] Very important article 15: it is never as important as today to check that terrorist content is not disseminated on the web. It is certain, however, that terrorism does not only travel online, on the contrary. Surely the continuous landing of illegal immigrants on our coasts does not help to prevent any acts of terrorism in Europe; demonstration of this is the fact that several perpetrators of attacks had landed illegally in our country and had stayed there. Minister Lamorgese, 26,652 landings in six months are too many, if you will understand? [[Applause]] Even if only 0.01 percent of the illegals were a terrorist, the damage would be, from our point of view, irreparable. Turning to the important document on Italian participation in the European Union in 2022, I would like to highlight the excellent work done in the Commission, which has allowed us to reach the approval of an important report that balances well the wishes expressed by the European plans with the economic, working and industrial interests of our country, especially with regard to environmental issues. I would like to focus on a passage which is particularly close to my heart and which I have emphasized in other speeches on the development of infrastructure. In the document we see the desire to propose our country as a new hub for energy supply, moving the centre of gravity of European energy policies to the south and expanding our network of relations with the Mediterranean countries. Making Italy a platform of this magnitude requires interventions and development of infrastructure networks and, consequently, we need to change some attitudes that we have witnessed in recent years by some political leaders. The opposition to any form of investment on the territory that concerned the creation and development of new infrastructures, often disguised by instrumental environmental claims, has prevented our country from being in step with the main world economies. Therefore, it is important to return to the discussion of the trans-European transport network programme (TEN-T) and I am pleased to read in the document approved in the Commission the desire to resume this speech, especially with regard to infrastructures which have a strategic impact on our territory. The policies of no to everything, as evidenced by the serious energy crisis that we are experiencing, have not held up the confrontation with history. We reverse this trend, we focus on the development of infrastructures that can make our country integrated with the European economic fabric and we imagine together an Italy that invests in development and looks to the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u57	Senator Corbetta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the annual law of European delegation, we are dealing with a complex and complex measure which concerns legislative delegations both for the adoption of European directives and for the adoption and implementation of other European legislative acts with a view to adapting the national law to European law. Its approval is fundamental in order to avoid the risk of convictions linked to infringement procedures that involve enormous costs and long litigations to our country. Italy has already paid over EUR 750 million following the six sentences imposed by the Court of Justice of the European Union under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is therefore important that this measure allows further alignment of the internal system with the European one. The topics dealt with include company law, consumer protection, financial instruments, organic farming and, again, the use of fertilizers, veterinary medicines and new provisions on road transport. This brief statement of the issues of the delegation law serves to indicate how wide the range of European standards we are going to transpose, which will affect the lives of our citizens and families, ensuring greater rights and higher levels of protection and protection. The European Union is not just constraints and burdens, it is indeed a train of opportunities which, especially after the pandemic, is changing course to create a different Europe, which is more social, fairer and more supportive. The suspension of the Stability Pact, the Next Generation EU programme and national recovery and resilience plans are revolutionary measures compared to the past, which design a new Europe. Thanks to the European resources of the PNRR, Italy will be able to give new impetus to the local communities, intervening in the fields of digital transition, environmental sustainability and social and territorial cohesion. If the European Union has shown all its unity in dealing with the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, it will have to be even stronger and cohesiveer to face the challenges that the conflict in Ukraine poses on the international agenda. [[Applause]] We need a stronger Europe in the protection of its single market, stronger in its role as an international actor in global scenarios and more incisive in the protection of the rule of law and in the promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms, which today, as never before, must be protected in the European territory and in all Member States. In conjunction with the European delegation law, we also examine the summary report on Italy's participation in the European Union in 2021, and the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2022, which is an important tool for the exercise of Parliament's role of participation in the governance of the European Union's decision-making bodies. The reports contain details of the challenges that await us and which I recall once again: the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; the European g reen deal with the Fit for 55 package; the Europe of Health; the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, which the sad events of the past hours in Melilla impose as urgent and no longer eludible. By approving the European delegation bill and the reports on Italy's participation in the European Union, we certainly reaffirm our commitment to Brussels, we guarantee more protection for our citizens, we avoid the risk of condemning new infringement procedures and we strengthen our path towards a Europe of the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u59	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u60	I address a greeting to a delegation of young people from Umbria who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u61	The rapporteurs do not intend to speak in response. I note that the Presidency has received the following motions for resolutions, the texts of which are distributed: No 1, signed by Senator Fazzolari and other senators; No 2, signed by Senators Bossi Simone, Lorefice, Masini, Marcucci, Ginetti, Giammanco, Bonino and Durnwalder. I call on the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to indicate which of the motions for resolutions that have been tabled, the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u62	Mr President, before making any brief comments, I object to the motion for a resolution No 1 and the favourable opinion on motion No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u63	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 144- bis (7) of the Rules of Procedure, in the face of several motions for resolutions, the one accepted by the Government, to which each Senator may propose amendments, is voted first. Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 2, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it will now begin. You're welcome, Undersecretary Amendola.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u64	Mr President, we must applaud and thank the European Union's political Commission for its work on the enormous amount of directives and regulations that we are going to introduce into the Italian legal system through a quick transition to the House of Deputies. I would like to thank President Stefano, the rapporteur, Mrs Masini, the Group leaders of the whole majority and also the opposition for the debate which has been very much on the subject of issues of national interest. I would also like to thank Senator Lorefice for his report on Italy's participation in the European Union and Senator Simone Bossi for the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union, which this year, according to Law 234, has had successive deadlines for the obvious reasons related to the conflict in Ukraine and on which the Council of Ministers has acted on the relevant updates. I would also like to thank some of the senators who have spoken in this morning's debate: among them, Senator Corbetta and Senator Fedeli, who highlighted the deepest meaning and opportunities, and Senator Floris, who highlighted the work to be done on infringements, on which we are working. Some infringements that have a burden on the state's coffers have already gone to resolution. I am thinking of the most expensive waste in Campania, and others concerning our economic system. There are others on which we still have to work, knowing that the transposition of European legislation must also concern the quality of Italian legislation (so not an imposition, but an opportunity). I would also like to thank Senator Bergesio for the comments he made this morning on the issue of water, which is central to the PNRR and also for the needs that we need to achieve. Senator Casolati and others have put the theme of the nutri-score, on which I confirm the firm opposition of the Italian Government, in a negotiation that will continue in the next autumn and on which we are all tied. In conclusion, Mr President, allow me to make a reference to Senator Iannone and also to other speeches that have followed on the issue of bathing concessions. If there was a reason for delay in arriving in this House with this proposal, it is precisely because of the work that has been done. As you know, the 14th Commission has analysed certain directives, such as the one on bathing concessions or the one on public administration payments, and has intervened - I know very well that the opposition may not agree - the proposal on bathing concessions which will be included in the draft competition law. We thank, of course, not only the Deputy Minister who is here with me, but also Minister Garavaglia, for bringing this proposal. I understand the differences, but the majority's proposal to replace the subject in the delegation law is due precisely to the fact that the majority has brought in the draft competition law a solution proposed by Minister Garavaglia and by the whole assembly of the Government. The delay was due not to the desire to circumvent the issue of the directive, but to the fact that the Government has proposed another solution, which is under consideration in the draft competition law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u65	I say that the final vote on the draft law of the European delegation, the vote on any amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 2 and the final vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of the joint explanations of vote. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u66	Mr President, the G1,200 agenda needs an appropriate introduction, because it is the result of a discussion in the Commission and a broad consensus found in that House. We must also refer to the amendments to Article 20, i.e. Amendments 20.0.6, 20.0.7, 20.0.8 and 20.0.9, which are withdrawn from the file. These amendments, President, have been tabled and signed by me and other Senators of the Lega Group with a specific objective, to address and finally respond to a problem that characterizes the Italian public administration in negative for too long, namely the late payments of debts of the public administration. It is not a new text, which we have been presenting for at least seven years and which we reinforce every time with subsequent reminders. The last is that of a judgment against our country by the European Court of Justice, which condemns Italy for the late payment of its debts. Now, talking about the need for punctuality in paying debts by public administrations is something that should be quite easy at any time. Speaking and having to urge the government today to quickly settle the debts of public administration, with an economic crisis that ferociously bites our businesses and with the debts that the administration has to the private sector, seems even surreal. However, we had to come up with an agenda because, despite the good will of those who tabled the amendment, of the rapporteur, whom I thank for her attention, and of the Undersecretary Amendola, in order to find a solution, we were faced with an objection raised essentially by the Ministry of Justice. It is not my intention, at this stage, to deepen the subject, but I want to say with certainty that, if some public administration has difficulty in paying its debts to those who have properly provided its services, this may be an extraordinary exception, but it cannot be the rule. This cannot be the rule according to which all the administrations of the State become later incompetence [[Applause),]] Otherwise we lack seriousness towards those we call to provide the public administration and to get into debt. Who has been mayor, like me, knows what it means to have the municipal suppliers at the gates of the municipality itself, because they are not paid the debts of the administration: it is not correct! Mr President, in conclusion, we have therefore come to draw up the text of the agenda, which, as the Commission intends, I also ask the senators of the other groups to sign up and support, and of which I want to read the provisions. The agenda commits the Government to make concrete efforts to ensure that all public administrations actually comply with the payment deadlines set out in Article 4 (3) and (4) of Directive 2011/6/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on combating late payment in commercial transactions; to ensure the concrete implementation of a "quick payment culture" that effectively counteracts the negative effects that late payments have on the financial balance of businesses and on the degree of competition in the market; to seriously combat unfair contractual practices, in violation of the principles of fairness and good contractual faith, practiced by public administrations at the expense of creditor companies; to ensure that public administrations adopt transparent conduct with respect to the rights of creditors of the State, in order to avoid not only that companies are forced to suffer unjustified costs from late payments, but also that delaying payments practices adversely affect the overall competitiveness of the country in terms of less attractive to domestic and foreign investors; to take concrete measures that discourage public administrations who are responsible for late payment in commercial transactions. Mr President, this is not just an agenda for putting it there and which, as is customary, is not denied to anyone. On the other hand, I would like to see a serious awareness from the Government and a strong vote from Parliament, so that this unfair practice is finally handed over to the archives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u69	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on behalf of myself and my colleagues in the Group, I would ask you to subscribe to the agenda that has just been presented, because our party has always fought to ensure that public administration recognises the responsibility of citizens, businesses and companies. We too are to speed up the payment of public debt. I therefore call for the agenda to be signed, on behalf of myself and the entire Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u70	The remaining agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u71	Mr President, I would like to express my support for the agendas for Mr G1,200, Mr G1,201, Mr G1,202 and Mr G1,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u72	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u75	Mr Lorefice, rapporteur on document LXXXVII, No 5. Mr President, I would like to speak on the G1200 agenda, because in principle we had joined the Commission in accordance with what Mr Candiani has proposed. Therefore, like Movimento 5 Stars, we are at the side of local authorities and even businesses that certainly cannot wait for Bible times to receive what they owe. However, as I have already said in the Commission and as I wish to reiterate in this House, we must also always try to have a fair balance, highlighting some regulatory limitations that have an impact on some Italian municipalities, including Southern Italy, compared to the difficulties associated with budgetary forecasts and cash liquidity. I repeat here that even on the part of the Movimento 5 Stars there is the utmost attention on the subject, but I repeat that the Municipalities and the enterprises must be protected both; let us work together to find new regulatory sources to avoid these distortions. On the other hand, as regards the agenda for G1.202, I would like to point out to the House that we are opposed to the part in which reference is made to the increase in national gas production and, in particular, to the so-called Sustainable Energy Transition Plan for suitable areas (Pitesai). I would remind myself, my colleagues and those who have been following the subject for a long time that in Italy gas resources are really limited and, in order to try to limit imports, there is a risk of endangering a great national good which, in my opinion, has a greater value, namely that of protecting the landscape and tourism. I therefore address my colleagues at the League, saying that their Minister for Tourism must also pay attention to this issue. [[Comments.]] I hear a few comments from some of my colleagues, but it does not matter: we are against the agenda G1.202.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u76	Senator Lorefice, I consider this speech to be an explanation of vote with respect to a vote that is not there, because the opinion on these agendas is expressed by Senator Masini. You, on the other hand, are rapporteur on the report. [[Comments.]] You can't ask, the hosts can. If the Government and the rapporteur accept the agenda, the presenter may request that it be put to the vote, not the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u79	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would just like to ask the Italian Viva-Partito Socialist Group to subscribe to the G1200 agenda, which we agreed in the Commission precisely as a mediation between the need to pay all the debts of the public administration in support of the companies that work with them, but also to take account of the constraints linked to the cash register and therefore considering the issue of sanctions for which the Minister of Justice had intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u82	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to ask whether it is possible, as we have already done on other occasions, to vote on the agendas even if the opinion is in favour, because we think it is a strengthening for the presenters themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u85	RICHETTI (Mixed-+Eu-Az). Mr President, I would like to ask you to sign the G1200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u88	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the G1200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u91	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would ask you to sign the G1200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u92	Senator Candiani, do you insist on voting on the order of business G1200? CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1200, presented by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.201 (text 2), G1.202 and G1.203 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u93	Mr President, I am opposed to both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u94	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u95	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government are referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u96	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u97	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u98	Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan, until the words '2005', on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 4.1 and amendment 4.2 are therefore excluded. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G4200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u99	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of the following rewording: after the words "engaged" by the Government, insert "to assess the appropriateness of "to."
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u100	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u101	I would ask the first signatory to the G4200 agenda, Senator Modena, if she accepts this proposal for reformulation. MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4200 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u102	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u103	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u104	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1 tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u105	Mr President, the opinion on Amendment 11,200, in my signature, is clearly in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u106	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u107	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 11,200, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 11 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u108	Mr President, the opinion on the amendments is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u109	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u112	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I add my signature to Amendments 17,204 and 17,205 and withdraw them.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u113	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,200, tabled by Senator Bergesio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,201, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 17.202, tabled by Senators Fazzolari and Malan, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,203, tabled by Senators La Pietra and Fazzolari. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u116	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I apologize if I disturb in the middle of the vote, but it seems to me once again incredible that, even when there are no problems with numbers, some colleagues from Forza Italia continue to vote for the absent senators, in front of a representation of students, to young people to whom we must teach dignity and legality. [[Applause]] I would therefore ask you to remove the ballots of those who are not present, because we continue to vote only to take the full salary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u117	Senator, since the vote is open and I do not see any additional votes at the moment, I declare the vote closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments]] Then I was given the wrong target, because before that I had turned to another sector. Attention to your fingers, ladies and gentlemen, because you will be severely punished in case of double voting. Amendments 17,204 and 17,205 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which a partially inadmissible amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u118	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u119	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u120	I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19,200, tabled by Senators Bergesio and Arrigoni, for the admissible part. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u121	Mr President, I would like to point out that Amendments 20,200, 20,201 and 20,202, which have already been tabled at first reading in the Senate, are not political, but the answer to a category that is experiencing serious difficulties because of the rules that are being put in place by globalisation, but which does not see the same rules for all countries where it is operating. I am referring to truck drivers for the transport of the goods they serve on the various territories. There are differences that benefit some at the expense of others and our drivers are certainly among the most disadvantaged compared to other countries in the East. My amendment only seeks to find a system of greater overall control which is in Europe's interests. It is not - I repeat - a question of political indications, but simply of a management type that come from the operators themselves to have greater control. It seemed strange to me that the government has adversely assessed these proposals which do not have an economic burden and which go in the direction that Europe wants to give itself. I therefore call for at least a minimum of attention to be turned into agendas and for the Government to be given to a category which during the Covid has been in support of all of us, with a very serious workload and at risk of disease. Mr President, I see that you are very interested; I will make it clear to all Italian truck drivers.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u122	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendment 20.0.4 which was first signed by Senator Fazzolari.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u123	If you want to do so now, do so, but it is an additional amendment and would come after Article 20. Anyway, do it now.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u124	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, thank you. As I have anticipated in general discussion with this amendment, signed by Senator Fazzolari, first of all, but with all the signatures of the Group of Senators of Brothers of Italy, we hope to reconsider the issue of our beaches. I don't want to be repetitive compared to what I said in general discussion, but I have read in the words of Senator Mallegni and other senators of the center-right and not only, a new consciousness of what can be written in terms of history for these 30,000 businesses, their family members and their employees. I therefore call on all Members of this House to ensure that this amendment can obtain a positive vote that gives the Government recognition of the principle that the Bolkestein directive, as the father of the directive, Commissioner Bolkestein, does not apply to State concessions. We hope that Parliament's own role will be proud and interpreted, not in terms of revenge on the angeries that the government has had in recent days on Parliament's prerogatives, but above all in terms of defence and protection of Italian work which must not be expropriated. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u125	Colleagues, we are at the stage of the presentation of the amendments, which is up to the authors. Then we will give the opinions and, when we get to the vote, you will ask me to speak in an explanation of vote. Senator Nugnes, is the request for a change to the agenda referring to the three amendments or to one in particular?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u126	I would like all three amendments to be turned into an agenda, because they contain provisions that create a control system and an online platform. I therefore call on the Government to consider whether this system should be implemented. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u127	Mr President, the opinion is also opposed to the change of agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u128	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u129	So you keep the amendments, Senator Nugnes? NUGNES (Mixed). At this point we shall vote on the amendments. I have to report to the category that asked me to make the proposals. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,200, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.201 tabled by Senator Nugnes, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.202 tabled by Senator Nugnes, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u132	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, I come to the substance of this amendment because the Deputy Minister is also here, who I imagine has at heart all the work and sacrifice that has been done by the whole majority on a text such as that of the draft competition law, which has seen the subject of the beaches carried out in a very conscientious way by the whole majority. We are once again discussing a subject that we had resolved and we thought we had given security to the whole sector and to companies that for years have been blocked in an absurd way with shameful extensions that have prevented the growth of our tourism sector. Then there is the right of the State to have a fair return from these spaces, from these territories and from these areas that are currently being used incorrectly, because the extensions have prevented an important development of this economy. [[Applause]] It is the economy of all of us, who boast and talk often and willingly about this topic. Above all, there are citizens' rights, because these spaces must be used by citizens in a proper and appropriate manner, and the rights of workers in that sector, who need certainties. We are again trying to chain this country to the past and stop its path of evolution. Mr. Deputy Minister, with all the work we have done on the competition decree, I appeal to you and to all the parliamentary groups that have worked with us not to stop the progress of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u135	MARTELLI (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, first of all we in the Italexit Group will vote in favour of Amendment 20.0.4. Secondly, we would like to stress that the question of bathing can be settled in accordance with the provisions of the directive and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which allows individual states to take the issue away from European legislation: that is, we could resolve it as we wanted, because we were allowed by European legislation, that I, too, reject completely as legislation. [[Applause]] Therefore, that you do not find an alibi for having dragged for years a question that could have been resolved for ten years and that has been resolved again badly, in fact giving all the blame and criminalizing a category, which certainly, like everyone else, is not always right, but in this case it has, because it was thrown at the stake of an alleged PNRR and alleged blackmail or conditions related to the PNRR. This is also false: there is no such condition in the PNRR and, even if there were, it would be a reason to open a dispute with the European Union, because the Treaty on Functioning prevails over any type of secondary rule when signing a contract such as the PNRR. [[Applause]] We therefore reiterate the vote in favour and those who have brought the situation to this point should take a great examination of conscience. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u138	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would simply like to say that the Lega Group takes up the appeal made by the Brothers of Italy Group, not so much for a second thought, but because, as I shall now explain, the Lega has always consistently maintained, in all fora, that bathing concessions should be excluded from the Bolkestein Directive. To do this, we obviously need a European standard that goes in this direction and this is the right and appropriate delegation law to stimulate the European Union in this respect. [[Applause]] Another issue is the draft competition law, which we voted for for a very simple reason: we were faced with a decision of the Council of State that disenforced Law No 145 of 2018, which many of those who applauded before voted with us when they were at the government with us. [[Applause]] - to say how much consistency is important and necessary - and in the face of that decision of the Council of State, with the risk of condemning our companies to an abusive occupation with all that it could achieve, we had to intervene at the regulatory level to protect them, also providing for the criteria of reward to prevent that from January 2023 the races could be highlighted, even with the risk that foreign investors could come to appropriate our beaches. We have therefore acted for protection and defence by voting in favour of the draft competition law, with all the rewards and issues that I myself highlighted in this House in that speech. On the other hand, in view of the real and concrete possibility for Europe to re-examine this issue, with regard to our ideas, we will vote in favour of it, and, of course, we support your amendment as a group. [[Applause]] , bearing in mind another aspect that strengthens our vote in favour, namely that there is a judgment - since we had to act because of a decision of the Council of State - of the TAR of Lecce which refers to the European Court of Justice the assessments on the applicability of the Bolkestein Directive to bathing concessions. [[Applause]] All the more reason for this vote to be in favour, and indeed we are calling on Parliament to do justice in this area once and for all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u141	CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, unfortunately, I note that, as is often the case, there are two wrong opposites: on the one hand we note that the application of the Bolkestein directive for bathing tout court and, therefore, the possibility for foreign companies to come and make incetta, as was also provided for in the so-called competition delegation law, is not good, because clearly no stakes have been set and therefore we run the risk that our beaches can be replaced and that there may then be a position income of these large foreign groups that come to make incetta of kilometers of our beaches. However, in this amendment we note an opposite excess. Recognizing the legitimate expectations of dealers, who are not owners of those beaches, and basically making a category that can benefit from the concessions received and obtain their position annuities is not as good. We shall therefore abstain on the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u144	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have said this before in general debate, but I will now try to be more precise. I start from the competition bill, which in the Senate has found a significant deepening and a series of important public finance constraints also related to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We found a point of understanding with great difficulty and I must thank Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, because we worked together with him eliminating any kind of question that would have directly damaged the world of Italian tourism and all dealers, not only seaside, but also those lacual and river that we often forget, and those of the ports. We did a great job, great job. This amendment reiterates one concept: the Bolkestein Directive does not apply to state property concessions because it is a directive on services and not on goods. It would be absurd if we hadn't figured it out yet and wanted to pretend that it wasn't. Among other things, it was not a subject of discussion within the competition bill, because we looked at other things: we prevented them from seizing the beaches at an important time such as that of the bathing season; we provided local authorities with the possibility and opportunity to have a 12-24 month vision to put themselves in a position to operate in this direction; we reasoned to safeguard companies. All this is something more than what we have already done and which we want to reiterate. Frankly, distinguished colleagues who voted on Law No. 145 of 2018 and carried on with us the extension of the fifteen years (I still remember when together with Senator Gasparri we worked the night until the morning to arrive at the mediation of the fifteen years of extension), today they say that the concept that they supported three years ago is wrong. It's true that only fools do not change their minds, but this is an exaggeration. There is another passage, which reminded my colleague Romeo of earlier. The Lecce Court sent the documents to the European Court of Justice one minute before we approved the competition measure and a few minutes later. At that very moment we had the clear objective of safeguarding companies and that is what we have done. We are consistent and we are always moving in the same direction, so not only will we vote in favour of this amendment, but we ask Mr Iannone to be able to add our signatures. We share this strategy, we go ahead and I say to my colleagues that they intervened just before me that when we talk about legitimate trust to serious and decent people who have made the history of Italian tourism and sacrificed themselves and their families are about justice, not theft. Remember that.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u147	Mr AMENDOLA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, at the beginning I tried to explain the opposite opinion on Senator Iannone's speech. Let me repeat what has happened because the law of European delegation, as some have rightly said, concerns the stage at which we must transpose and discuss how to do so. Through you, Mr President, I would like to say very respectfully to Mr Romeo that the Commission which examined the amendment by Senator Fazzolari (there were also similar amendments from other parties) has interrupted the work because Minister Garavaglia and the competent Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin have worked on the reorganization of the matter, also promoting a debate among the political forces present in the Senate to arrive at a solution that has been included in the so-called competition measure. [[Applause]] You, Senator Romeo, say that this is European legislation, but let me tell you that all the effort has come because there is a decision of the Council of State. [[Applause]] In the previous Conte Government - I say this with great respect - when the news of infringement came to us I allowed myself to oppose it by signing, on my behalf, a letter explaining that the open trial on bathing concessions was to see the debate in Parliament. I remember matter well. Why has the work accelerated and why did Minister Garavaglia, together with the Minister for Economic Development, have to convene work tables between Palazzo Chigi and Mise? Because in October a decision of the Council of State (not Brussels, but - I repeat - the Council of State) took over, indicating precisely procedures and priorities. When this issue arrived in the Commission, we suspended it precisely out of respect for the relevant ministers (and I am not one of them). The Minister for Tourism and the Minister for Economic Development worked with the majority forces to reach an agreement. In view of that outcome, we, the majority forces, have decided to vote against Senator Fazzolari's amendment. I think this is the political logic behind the work done by the relevant ministers. Therefore, not only do I confirm, reluctantly, that I defend the work of Minister Garavaglia and Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin in order to reach that agreement, but I also believe that to contradict the work done there with the delegation law that now goes to the House with this vote means to blow up the whole procedure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u149	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u150	LA MURA (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, fortunately, our Group is dynamic and democratic and there is an internal debate within it. The subject under discussion is an extremely complex subject, with many facets. My colleague, Mr Crucioli, voted in favour of the majority of the Group, but that does not mean that there may be a disagreement on the part of some of us. I will vote against Senator Fazzolari's amendment. As the government representative said, the majority found an agreement on competition law that contained some interesting things and other wrong things in my opinion. For example, I have the opportunity to say that, with regard to the modification of the navigation code, there was a need for timely action and not for the government to be given a blank card. I don't like this, like so many others. However, we need to regulate the sector, inter alia with concessions that cannot be maintained until 2033, as requested. We care about the entrepreneurial fabric and - I am speaking for myself, of course - we must ensure that the entrepreneurial fabric of coastal tourism accepts a challenge linked first and foremost to Italian critical factors. The two aspects must be dealt with independently of Bolkestein; in fact, you have agreed with the beach operators. This applies to the regulation of a sector which has so far remained firm 50 years ago with regard to the Italian side. As far as the European side is concerned, I agree that we should apply Bolkestein differently. However, on the substance of the amendment, when Spain is mentioned, I would point out that Spain has received an infringement procedure. There are other issues as well. The amendment talks about Bolkestein's interpretation, but we do not vote on interpretations here, but instead vote on the things that need to be certain. So there are strange things in the subject and in the concept of that amendment that cannot be voted on, especially on the part of those who have been dealing with this matter for 20 years.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u153	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, in the light of the complaints made by some Members in this House and I await the delicacy of this vote, in order to ensure that it is transparent and fair, we ask that the cards of Members who are not present in this House be removed from the appropriate system.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u154	Absolutely. I invite the secretary senators to proceed with the withdrawal of the cards everywhere. Senator Gallone is here. Senator Puglia, excuse me, since my colleague Durnwalder is proceeding to check this side of the hemicycle, you're going to the other side, otherwise we're going to be at night. Senator Durnwalder, can I have the other side of the hemicycle? [[Comments]] Senator Durnwalder is on his way. Thanks to the effective cooperation of Senator Pharaoh, everything is fine on this side. Is this it, Senator Puglia? I'd say so. Let's get our secretary senators back in. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.0.4 tabled by Senator Fazzolari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Amendments 20.0.6 to 20.0.9 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 20.0.200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u155	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 20.0.200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u156	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 20.0.200 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As has already been announced, the final explanations of vote and the related votes will take place tomorrow morning. I shall therefore refer the continuation of the joint debate on the draft law and the documents in title to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u160	Mr Mollame (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, I would like to inform the House of an appeal made by the mayors of the smaller islands of Sicily: Favignana, Lampedusa and Linosa, Leni, Lipari, Malfa, Pantelleria, Santa Marina Salina and Ustica. The islands may be smaller, but the problems often become bigger and are inversely proportional. The appeal concerns the increase in transport costs to and from these islands. These are increases that could hit in a very negative way the two only resources component of the economy of these territories, primarily tourism, for the period, and then fishing. In the few distributors of these islands, diesel now reaches 2.50 euros per litre. It is clear that we are not experiencing a period among the easiest of recent decades, but the high energy risks bringing down all the families and small farms on these islands. The reduction of excise duties, as far as possible, has certainly brought a benefit to all sectors of the economy affected by expensive fuels. A uniform benefit, spread throughout the national territory, that does not take into account the peculiarities of these small realities and, above all, those legislative instruments that guarantee territorial continuity. Today I believe it is time to intervene, in order to find a solution that is no longer procrastinable. It will be my responsibility to intervene with a question and possible amend ments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u163	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I do not usually make speeches at the end of the sitting, although you usually like them very much, but I think it is a fairly urgent matter to have some answers from the Government, especially from the Ministers for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the ecological transition, about the Pedemontana project, the Lombardy motorway, which has now become a mythological theme, because the project is constantly changing nature. We all know that we are in a time when the increase in raw materials in construction has become important and we are all engaged in an ecological transition. So perhaps we need to think in a new way about transport models and the solution of traffic problems, compared to what we could design ten, twenty or thirty years ago. This highway, which originally had to be, in theory, at zero cost to public finance, because in project financing, at zero cost will not be and yet remain designed of the enormous toll costs for citizens. So perhaps it is really time for the government to focus on this infrastructure, not leave it in the autonomy of the Lombardy Region, which someone would like to increase, but that we would like to coordinate with respect to the logics not only of a national state, but also of the European Union, which is engaged in a new planning of the transport. I remember that Pedemontana was born as Corridor 5 and South of the European Union, and today it is no longer. So, we really want the government to focus its attention on the Pedemontana and evaluate what project is really useful to the citizens. We believe that this project is over, is not in step with the times and risks becoming only a huge cost, a huge chasm in the accounts of the State and the Region, without solving any mobility problem. That is why I am asking for an answer to my questions and also to those of other colleagues, but above all I am asking for special attention to be paid to this important project. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u166	GRANATO (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, at the sitting of 24 May the question 4-07055 was published, which I addressed to the Minister of Health. I ask that this act of inspection union be considered, as it would be indispensable to have a rapid, definitive and clear response from Minister Hope. Article 4 of Decree-Law No 44 of 2021, in the most recent version, extended until 31 December 2022 the vaccination obligation for health professionals and health professionals, as it was provided that vaccination was an essential requirement for the exercise of the profession and for the performance of the work services of the obliged persons. We know how many doctors and nurses, as well as teachers or staff of the armed forces have been suspended on the basis of unfair, unfair and totally discriminatory provisions such as this. It has happened that some Lombard doctors unjustly suspended from the service have asked for clarification in relation to a statement issued in February 2022 by the National Federation of orders of surgeons and dental practitioners of Lombardy, which provided some indications for doctors of general medicine in the context of prescriptive activity. In the press release, which also appeared on the website of the national federation, we read that: The vaccines used are not prescribed with normal recipes as territorial distribution in the Italian Republic is not allowed. A common and common-sense citizen would wonder what this sentence means and that is exactly what some suspended doctors asked the federation, asking specifically why the non-admission of the territorial distribution of these drugs in the Italian Republic has been expressly stated. Is it a hand put forward? Are we already waiting for consequences for those who have inoculated these products into the bodies of citizens without any prior evaluation? I think it is not only necessary, but it is absolutely essential to clarify this matter as soon as possible, because the interrogated federation has never responded to the legitimate demands put forward and it is unacceptable that on such an important issue no clarity should be made as soon as possible, since the failure to comply with the vaccination obligation resulted in the suspension of work. I also leave the question to my colleagues in this House, for the great majority who are always ready to be absent from the absurd demands of this Government and never doubting the effectiveness of these supposed drugs, what it means that the territorial distribution in the Italian Republic of anti-Covid-19 vaccines is not allowed. What meaning has it given to the expression "territorial distribution"? I am not the only one, Minister, who wants to know the truth about these sera, but millions and millions of Italian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u169	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, the pandemic emergency has clearly highlighted the need to strengthen the capacity of the National Health Service to provide adequate services to the territorial health service. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (i.e. the 209 billion obtained by President Giuseppe Conte) the theme of health is indicated among the objectives that require particular interventions. In light of this, I consider it essential to strengthen territorial medicine and home care. We cannot forget that in our country the geographical conformation of the territories, the road and the difficulty of access to health structures create differences between the population, compromising the quality of the service. It is therefore important to define a professional organisation in the territories, which includes general medical doctors, paediatricians, nurses and administrative staff, which is essential to ensure uniform access to the health service to all citizens. Therefore, I believe that in order to ensure this homogeneity throughout the national territory it is important to provide an incentive for specialists who choose to work in health facilities located in inner or disadvantaged areas, including small islands. This incentive will encourage doctors to work in these areas. For this reason, in the Senate Act 2500, which I deposited at my first signature, I thought of assigning an additional score for the service provided, for the purposes of evaluation as a career title, and a service allowance to enhance the skills and specific activities carried out. The aim is to ensure that all citizens have access to an appropriate service regardless of where they live.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u172	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, today is 29 June and I take advantage of your usual courtesy to address the most sincere wish for a happy birthday, my staff of course, but thinking of interpreting the sentiment of all my colleagues, to the President emeritus of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, who is a member of this House but who unfortunately has not been able to participate in our work for some time. [[Applause]] I think that the important service he has carried out for the institutions and for Italy induces us all to show, not only once again gratitude, but also great sympathy and affection for President Napolitano. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u173	Senator Casini, since today is the feast of Saints Peter and Paul, I take advantage of it to wish you well, as Pier, for his name, and of course all the Peter and Paul present.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u176	Mr AMENDOLA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the fine words of President Casini of homage to President Emeritus Giorgio Napolitano, a great Neapolitan, a great Italian and a great European. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u177	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-446.ana.u178	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 30 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.27.
