ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 10 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn a moving thought to the memory of Senator Romualdo Coviello. Person of fine culture and rare political sensitivity, university professor esteemed and appreciated by colleagues and students, Romualdo Coviello was a tireless protagonist of Italian political life and Basilicata, as well as an intelligent interpreter of the instances and potentialities of those territories. A genuine political passion was his, cultivated with generosity and responsibility from the first posts that saw his career intertwine with the birth of the Regional Council of Basilicata, of which he was also President, as well as regional councillor to agriculture. First elected to the Senate in 1987, in the ranks of Christian Democracy, Romualdo Coviello was an authoritative member of this Assembly for five legislatures and President of the Budget Committee during the 13th legislature. I remember the years we shared between the benches of this House. While belonging to opposing sides, Romualdo Coviello has always proved to be a loyal and dialogue adversary, whose intellectual honesty, the firm coherence of thought, the concrete and pragmatic spirit, the innovative inclination, especially in terms of public policies, could not be overlooked. He was a true man of institutions and democracy, firmly convinced that constructive confrontation and not conflict was the main way to protect citizens' rights and expectations. A commitment, his, dedicated above all to the redemption of the most fragile and weak territories of our country and Lucania in particular, his beloved land that has always remained at the center of his political activity and for whose development Romualdo Coviello has never stopped fighting, even once his parliamentary experience has ended. In renewing a sincere feeling of closeness and condolence to the family, colleagues and friends of Senator Coviello, I ask the House to honour his memory by observing a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u7	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, you used the right words to remind Senator Coviello. Who knew him well - who speaks to you, Senator Margiotta and all the Lucan senators present here - is aware of the qualities that Romualdo has been able to express. In this institution many (even non-Lucani) have known it for its southern and national thickness and have appreciated it. Romualdo Coviello had the ability to look forward and, at the same time, to listen to his land, to our Basilicata. Romualdo Coviello was a politician of race, as well as a competent economist and a militant southernist; a gritty man, never yielding, capable of convincing with a tenacity that had no equal, never taming. He was a strong man of the values proper to dossetti's democratic Catholicism and prominent exponent of Lucanian Christian Democracy. He was a man who studied, argued and knew the territory as few others. With him I shared the joy of a great election campaign, me in the Chamber of Deputies and him in the Senate. He really surprised me about the ability to convince voters. Then there were great themes in the Lucan debate (oil and the Apennines park) and a great debate, even critical, among the citizens. Romualdo told me not to fear, that it was necessary to have the ability to listen and conviction of citizens through the right arguments; as for oil, not all oil, but what could be extracted from Basilicata in a framework of sustainability and a dignified relationship with oil companies, mediated by the State with an understanding with the Regions. And so it was. As for the park, not the park at all costs, but the one that defends citizens and development. Romualdo taught us many things. Our memory is therefore imbued with affection, esteem and deep gratitude that I have the honour to express on behalf of the whole Democratic Party Group. However, I am sure that these are feelings shared by the whole of this House. [[Applause]] Goodbye, great wrestler. Thanks to men like you, we can say that it is false the way all politics and all politicians are to be thrown away. There have been women and men who have made politics with capitals and stand out today as examples for the new generations. Thank you Romualdo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u10	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago Romualdo Coviello, a dear colleague of ours, an extraordinary innovator of the agricultural policies of Basilicata and, more generally - as Mr Pittella has just mentioned - a great innovator of the South. He was an undisputed protagonist of our recent history, precisely because he was able to put at the service of the institutions the knowledge and knowledge that came to him from the academic world. He represented the Lucan community in the best way and he did it at national level for many years, as a senator, not forgetting the needs, the difficulties, but also the strengths of a community as rich as Lucan. Knowing, studying, knowledge, but also a long-term vision and institutional dialogue always profitable with everyone: these are the qualities that have made him a great politician, always attentive to the concerns of the citizens. We have all had the opportunity to appreciate all the human qualities, but without neglecting its scientific, professional and civil contribution, aimed at the common battle against economic and social inequalities, which unfortunately still tear our country apart today. On behalf of the Gruppo Italia Viva-PSI we join the pain of the family and its community. We remember him as a passionate man, always in the front line to correct the distortions of the system and the disparities of a society that he wanted more just and fairer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u13	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am speaking on behalf of the Senator and Senators of the Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali Group to recall the figure of Senator Romualdo Coviello and to express my condolences and closeness to the family and to the entire community of Lucana, to which Coviello dedicated his entire existence, first as a researcher and scholar; then as administrator; finally, for many years, as Senator of the Republic. Coviello - intellectual, university professor, passionate politician, convinced southernist - has been able to combine, in his eighty-one years of life, his different skills and activities, always leading them towards the same objective: the development of his Region, Basilicata, and the modernization and innovation of agriculture in a dimension integrated with that of the whole South. We like to recall his commitment at the forefront in the difficult months of the post earthquake of 23 November 1980, which hit Campania and its Basilicata. At that time Coviello, after being a researcher at the universities of Bari and Basilicata, had chosen the active policy in the Basilicata Region, playing the roles of councillor for agriculture and economic planning and as President of the Regional Assembly. He was a democratic Catholic of dossettian inspiration, therefore extremely sensitive and attentive to the condition of the socially and geographically weaker and penalized areas of the country; Today we would say that we are sensitive to economic, social and territorial inequalities and to the need, now essential, to reduce them and, in the future, to heal them. In 1987 he was elected to the Senate, where he would remain for almost twenty years as Senator of Christian Democracy, then of the Popular Party, finally of the Margaret; President of the Budget Commission between 1996 and 2001. His commitment to the Senate was directed in the same direction: he was convinced that the modernization of the South was not only dependent on industrialization, but that the future of his land was also and above all on the modernization of the primary sector, of agriculture. We believe that it is right to conclude this remembrance by citing the cornerstone of his reflection as a scholar and his activity as a political man: the idea of self-propulsive development centered on the programming not only of Basilicata, but of the whole Mezzogiorno, without welfare, but also without any localism; in an integrated dimension open to the developments and innovations of agriculture, which certainly looked to Italy, but also and always to the experiences of other European countries. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u16	DE BONIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the disappearance of Romualdo Coviello, Basilicata and the whole country lose a man of very high standing, who has put his great economic and agricultural skills at the service of our Region and of Italy as a whole. It has embodied at the highest institutional levels the best pushes that have animated the popular tradition of Christian Democracy. His political and administrative action has never suffered from the defect of improvisation dictated by urgency. He has always guided his action to a broad and far-sighted vision. The period of my youth training links me to him when, still a student, I took the first steps in regional policy. Before I even remember when, full of admiration, I listened to him intervene in the metapontine, where he had gone to inaugurate one of the first festivals of strawberry. Today the Basilicata holds the primacy in this supply chain and certainly a little 'it is also thanks to him. I have a vivid memory of his political example with the centrality given precisely to agriculture and the firm will to develop and modernise Basilicata precisely from the primary sector. I keep intact in my memories his image as a regional councillor, when he faced the problems of our Lucan farmers with determination and determination. In the regional offices he still heard his screams when farmers complained that he would not get water for seasonal crops and he would raise his phone to redraw the various agencies, the reclamation consortium or the irrigation agency. The farmers for him were sacred, inheritance received from the late father-in-law Decius Scardaccione. It also links me to Coviello his political and institutional commitment to the redemption and emancipation of the weakest areas of our country. In 2004, illustrating some motions on the Mezzogiorno, it pointed out that the government's political strategy for the South should be aimed at the overall redistribution of resources allocated to internal imbalances, so that the Mezzogiorno could seize opportunities and become an area of free trade in the Mediterranean. Even in the federalist reform of the state, he felt that the peculiarities of the South should be taken into account in order to shorten the strong gap between the two areas of the country. In order to prevent further backwardness of the Mezzogiorno, it proposed to exploit the southern economic institutions and actors; to allocate a greater share of public investment to infrastructure and network systems; while emphasising the quality of development and the fight against all forms of illegality. As an economist, he was very clear about the concept of economic interdependence and the beneficial effects for the North of investment in the South. In conjunction with this, on the institutional level, he felt that it was necessary to address the path of a federalism of solidarity that, in a high and united political center, was responsible for contesting the needs of the different territories, assuming that the development of the country could not be separated from that of the Mezzogiorno. Therefore, it is an example of a Catholic actively engaged in politics at the service of the people. In his unforgettable memory, we will continue to work so that his intuitions and teachings are a precious legacy for all Lucans, for all Italians and for us parliamentarians. Thank you, Coviello. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u19	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the Group to which I belong, Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, and also on my personal behalf, as a lucano, I have the honour to recall in this House a very authoritative personality, important for Basilicata, Senator Romualdo Coviello, who left us a few days ago; a personality that has done so much for our region and, in a spirit of unity of the nation, also for the whole of the Mezzogiorno. Mr President, you mentioned the institutional path of Senator Romualdo Coviello. I would like to add that he has been one of the constituents of the Basilicata Region, a region that has administered continuously for twenty-five years, covering both executive and executive roles as city councilor, and of representation par excellence, such as that of President of the Regional Council. I also repeat the fact that he has been an excellent parliamentary representative of this branch of Parliament, for another twenty years, where he has been able to bring the demands of his territory; that territory that was in distress, in difficulty with respect to the rest of the country and that he had to catch up with a delay that could no longer be justified. He has been able to combine the institutional role - as has just been said - with the political role. I wasn't lucky enough to know him personally, but I've heard about him, so much and well. They tell me he didn't disdain political militancy at all. Mr Pittella used to say that he knew how to look far away, but he also knew how to keep his ears on the ground - as they say - and therefore to be close to the territory and to his own people, in addition to his academic commitment. All this led him to carry forward the theory of a self-propulsive development of our Region, a theory that I think is very current. Surely today we would have been on different political sides, but this condition would not have prevented us from looking at it and confronting it with respect, because respect deserved it all. As a young institutional representative of Basilicata, I address the following wish, meanwhile to me and to the entire Lucanian ruling class that begins to undertake a journey: if I were to borrow a teaching from Senator Romualdo Coviello, it would be to carry out political and institutional commitment with dedication, with passion and so much study, that never hurts. For this reason, on behalf of and on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, he reaches the children of the late Senator Romualdo Coviello, his family and all his loved ones, our heartfelt, respectful, affectionate and heartfelt greeting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u20	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00456 tabled by Senator Vallardi and other senators, on nutri-scores and ten-year Farm to fork. I call Senator Vallardi to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak about an issue which is certainly on the agenda of all citizens, namely the debate on food, in these days. I take this opportunity to greet and thank, on behalf of the Government, the Undersecretary Centinario, who, together with Minister Patuanelli, has been working on this subject for some time. I would like to say that we are working on a very important subject, the one we are debating today, the nutri-score and the ten-year Farm to Fork plan. It is this new vision of food and how to consider respect for the environment from here to the next deadlines seen by the European Commission; The European Commission wants us to reduce emissions into the atmosphere, often and willingly by blaming farmers and a little bit of food in our country, which they are calling into question with the nourishing score. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Agriculture because we have achieved a sharing and it has not been very difficult to do so. I warmly thank all its components one by one because everyone, in a unanimous way, has signed the commitment to go against the form of labelling - let's call it that - of the nutri-score, with which we Italians, with our Made in Italy and our Mediterranean diet, have absolutely nothing to do with it. (17.08) (Followed by Mr Vallardi). Our initiative is to safeguard the great quality of the production of our farmers, to which my compliment really goes, because we are the country of biodiversity: in Italy I remember that we have over 7,000 edible plant species. We therefore do not understand why with the nourishing score often and willingly our products are labeled with the red bubble. The emblematic case is that of olive oil, which initially got the red bubbles and now the orange bubbles. I can understand that, if we drink a liter of olive oil, it probably hurts us; but, if we use a spoon or two we know - and we have always known - that it does us very well. Perhaps also for this reason we can understand why, with the Mediterranean diet and especially with Made in Italy, we are perhaps the longest-lived country in the world; I say perhaps because we are little exceeded by Japan that, as longevity, exceeds us perhaps a year, and not more. If we are the second country in the world for longevity, it means that we eat well, that the made in Italy must definitely be safeguarded and that the nourishing-score has absolutely nothing to do with our food system. [[Applause]] I would like to make these quick comments to the Government, because I am convinced that it will follow us in this initiative: firstly, because we are right; secondly, because the Committee on Agriculture has proved to be as compact as ever; thirdly, because, if we are all united in a granite way and we are all working in one direction, perhaps we can come up with it in relation to the European Commission, which - I would like to remind you - did not allow citizens to eat crickets more than a month ago, after allowing worms and grasshoppers to eat. You understand, then, that perhaps the European Commission is on the wrong track. Already in advance, I would like to thank all those who will join this motion. I hope that we will all work in one direction, which is to enhance the great work and quality of the products of Italian farmers, all of which must be defended together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u22	I declare the debate open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary - I do not see the Minister - ladies and gentlemen, Europe always asks us and asks us again, but it takes away - at least Italy - and does not give. Don't call me back to the PNRR, because we all know that part of that money will have to be returned with interest. It takes us away when some countries of the European Union (Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg) adopt the nutri-score: a red traffic light with which they reject our products of excellence which are part of the Mediterranean diet, an intangible heritage of UNESCO. And then surely will penalize our products with the ten-year plan of the Farm to fork, that, if not managed well and harmonised with all the European countries, will bring us some damages, considering that already Italy has a great attention to environmental sustainability and biodiversity, that guarantee precisely the quality of the production made in Italy. If the Farm to Fork is to be, first of all it must be for every country of the European Union and everyone must conform to this programme - unfortunately I read that it is not binding - with harmonisation of means and times, through national strategic plans. But first, given that there will be a decrease in production by 30%, because basically we will not use so many substances - and it is right that - we have to somehow demand that all products that will enter Italy from third countries, and that will come to us, are not treated with every kind of substance prohibited by us, perhaps also affecting our reduced production. It would be interesting - but the Minister is not there - to know how the renegotiation of the bicameral treaty with the countries of North Africa ended with regard to the citrus sector. But we don't know. I take the opportunity to speak as spokesperson for the nascent Coordination of Italian fruit and vegetable producers, who, through me, invites Minister Patuanelli to protect the producers of this supply chain, who, damaged by the pandemic, climatic variations and above all by the increase of raw materials, do not have the money and liquidity to organize the next production campaign and ask loudly that in the measure support-ter are inserted the agricultural bill and support for the purchase of raw materials and the payment of bills. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u24	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by 2030 we will have to guarantee the protection of at least 30% of Europe's rural and marine areas; turn 10% of agricultural land into areas with high biodiversity; increase organic land by 25%; reduce the use of plant protection products by 50% and by 20% that of fertilizers, as well as by 50% total sales of antimicrobials. It is a historic opportunity to change the course of European development and to bring it up to speed with the times we live, which require a transition of thought, even before energy or production. The Italian agri-food system offers the highest guarantee of quality and health worldwide. Not for nothing, the Mediterranean diet has been declared UNESCO heritage. Italy, strong of its primacy, supports the nutritionform labelling system, compared to the nutri-scores wanted by other European countries, which have a different agricultural tradition from ours. The aim is to inform European citizens about what they put on their tables. Unfortunately, the different Member States do not seem to show the harmony recommended by the European strategy and, at European level, there seems to be a propensity for the nutrition score labelling system, which was adopted in France in October 2017. There are different reasons for the perplexity of the traffic lights. First of all, some experts have pointed out that the algorithm used to assign colors to the various products is not transparent. Moreover, the criterion of colors is too reductive and simplistic, so in fact it is more an induction to consumption, a kind of marketing strategy, than a real nutritional information on a scientific basis. Finally, but not least, what Italy disputes with this system is that no food is good or bad in itself, but it must be evaluated on the basis of its daily intake of energy, salts, sugars and proteins, within the whole diet of the consumer. According to this system - for example - we are faced with the paradox that a sparkling drink or with sweeteners, or synthetic meat, appear healthier than a spoonful of olive oil or a piece of Parmesan. Clearly, something is wrong with this system. Italy has proposed an alternative battery system called nutrinform, which starts from a criterion completely different from the nourishing score, since it evaluates the strategic role of the individual product within the diet. A good food culture is based on the education and informed choices of consumers, with a varied diet that does not exclude any food, but allows its consumption according to appropriate frequencies and portions. The main risk of a misleading system such as the nourishing score is to severely penalise the products of excellence of our Made in Italy. Moreover, the pressure activities to compete with the Italian agri-food industry are certainly not new. It would be important to encourage the Commission to carry out massive information campaigns: it is not enough to know what is being bought, but also the quantities to be consumed. One more step must be taken: healthy food first of all, what is produced with sustainable practices that are not impacting ecosystems. Organic farming in this area is the best guarantee of healthy food; consumers must be aware whether or not residues of pesticides or other contaminants are present in food. By the way, all of this would have a powerful health-prevention effect that would reduce the costs of our health budget. For these reasons, in the motion signed with other colleagues from the Agriculture Commission, we asked the Government for various commitments. I very much hope that the Government will accept these commitments and that Italy in general will move concrete and decisive steps towards sustainable agriculture, dignified for farmers - guardians of our landscape and the environment - and attentive to the needs of citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u26	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, in my speech I will quote the words of an Italian entrepreneur, Oscar Farinetti, who spoke at a convention that took place at national level a few years ago, who saw the participation of a great man, a great entrepreneur, a great person, an example of willpower, altruism and responsibility. I am referring to Ennio Doris, and, since he has been missing recently, I would also say to give him a round of applause. [[Applause.]] In his speech, Oscar Farinetti told us about a single peninsula in the narrow world from North to South inside a good sea, where the good winds of our seas meet the fresh air of the mountains, creating a unique situation in the world. From there come some products such as - for example - the raw ham San Daniele, son of the bora and the Dolomites; the raw Parma, son of the Apuan Alps and the Mediterranean; the best pasta in the world, that of Gragnano, that is created where you meet the fresh air of Castellammare di Stabia with the air of Vesuvio. Let us remember that our country, our Italy, covers the surface of 0.50 percent of that of the world. As the President of the Vallardi Agriculture Commission recalled earlier, in Italy we have 7,000 edible plant species, remembering that Brazil is second with 3,300 plants. We have 58,000 animal species, 42,000 of land and air, 10,500 of salt water and 5,500 of fresh water. We are the second largest country in the world for animal species. We have 1,200 native vines, France which is second has 222; 533 olive cultivars (Spain, second, has 70). We have a huge wealth of biodiversity transformed into our agro-food heritage. Let me give you an example. It is misleading that with the nourishing score you refer to 100 grams of product, when the diversity of a meal unfolds its benefits thanks to a multitude of nutrients. We have a thousand examples at national level: if 100 grams of meat are indicated by the nutritious score as a dangerous or carcinogenic substance, a variety is associated, a multitude of plant products that have very important nutrients, benefits that derive from the richness of the dish, and not a nutritional richness of 100 grams. Our task, therefore, is to educate a culture of healthy consumption, as is our Mediterranean diet, which is a UNESCO heritage. We have a historical heritage of cultures that have transformed Italian biodiversity into thousands of dishes and courses. A father's job is to teach his son to consume, even by tasting, a glass of wine, and not to let him continue to drink soda drinks or - worse - energizing preparations that give a tone to an evening of fun. [[Applause]] It is also up to us politicians to educate and oppose serial planning, which is wanted by Brussels. I would therefore like to thank President Vallardi and the Commission as a whole, who has unitedly signed this motion. The union makes force, and we have also seen it in the battle that we are carrying out with Prosek, in which we are united mainly on issues related to our country. In the agri-food sector, in defence of Made in Italy, we will surely achieve important goals by contrasting the culture of homologation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u29	Mr President, the motion that has just been tabled raises a question of no secondary importance, especially for our national interest, which encompasses the interests of the myriad of small and medium-sized companies in our country, if not their very existence on the market. It is above all for this reason that our Government must assert itself at European level with an authoritative and assertive voice, but not just for this reason. The two concepts that converge are those of Farm to Fork and Nutri-score. The first is to be seen a precise strategy that affects many aspects of the entire agri-food chain, which starts from the fields, passes from the criterion to be adopted for labelling - a criterion that must not be underestimated at all - and reaches up to the fork, precisely that - forgive me the digression - is an object that the refined Italian artisan of humanistic matrix has donated to the whole world. On the two models to be adopted for labelling, which currently oppose and animate the debate at European level, i.e. on the nutri-score on the one hand and the nutri-form battery on the other, the option for one or the other is not indifferent, resulting in the first misleading and penalising for domestic production and for such an important economic sector. But it is not only this criticality that is lurking in the nourishing scores. In fact, the nutri-score that North countries like so much turns out to be partial and misleading for the final consumer, because in the evaluation of the goodness of a food or drink takes into consideration an arbitrary minimum threshold, respectively a quantity of 100 grams for food and 100 milligrams for drinks. The nutri-score, therefore, does not take into account the daily insurance of food and drink, does not take into account the portion. The nutrinform battery, that is the Italian proposal, instead is not based on the mere nutritional aspect of the single food or drink. It is a criterion that puts them in a varied and balanced overall diet; that is, to recover the basic principles of the Mediterranean diet, which - as I have already said here - has a recognized ability to prevent chronic-degenerative diseases; a diet that a secular knowledge respectful of seasonality and of the actual nutritional needs has health consequences in the short term, but also in the long term. For this reason, the European Union's position on the use of labelling is not yet defined; at present each Member State is free to adopt a voluntary labelling scheme applied by food business operators. It is clear, however, that such a delicate matter cannot be entrusted solely to the good conscience of the producers. [[Applause]] , all the more because our products are threatened by two formidable pitfalls: by agromafias, which tend to settle in every segment of production and distribution, and by the Italian soiling, as well as by counterfeiting, which represent a great damage to the Italian economy, implying a turnover of about 500 billion euros per year. Let's remember that, on three Italian brand products sold worldwide, two are actually counterfeit. Welcome then to initiatives such as the one promoted by the Neapolitan start-up Authentic, which created an app that, by scanning the barcode, lets you know if a product is a real made in Italy. The nutri-score, as it is conceived, penalizes the local agri-food excellences, is easy to use and very intuitive, but - as I have tried to argue - it is misleading for the consumer and penalizing for our economy [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u31	Mr President, trying to cut my contribution more healthily, I would like to remind you that Italy has very worrying data on child obesity. A recent survey of a sample of 50,000 third - grade children reveals that even 24 percent are overweight, 9.4 percent obese, and 2.4 percent severely obese. The obesity of the first years of life is the basis of a series of pathologies that will develop over the course of life, with a significant impact on health expenditure and a population less protected from diseases. Diets rich in refined carbohydrates, fats and sugars are the main cause of obesity, as well as other dysfunctions: let's think of the explosion of intolerances and allergies related to the systematic intake of foods and drinks that see a strong presence of chemical elements for their production. We also think of the explosion of metabolic diseases such as diabetes which, with their complications, are devastating to the human body. For this reason too, Mr President, the commitments made by the European Parliament with the Farm to Fork programme are of great importance. The development of organic production, pesticide stoppage, the contrast to intensive farms, the shortening of supply chains are all factors that go in this direction. As a doctor, I consider this to be one of the most valuable elements of Europe's commitment as a framework for greater environmental sustainability for the whole sector. We cannot, in fact, fail to see how much the food industry represents one of the main forms of pollution and, therefore, a threat to the balance of the planet. We cannot forget that intensive farms - for example - with the constant deforestation of parts of the planet have broken a series of balances that are the basis of the latest epidemics, including, of course, that of the Covid-19 that unfortunately we are living. It is clear that these objectives must be achieved gradually and not only in the industrial fabric. We must avoid the risk that the Farm to Fork strategy will reduce our productive potential, opening the door to imports that would not contribute to the objectives it sets itself. We must also prevent this transition from being paid in its own pocket by the citizens. Just as we must listen very carefully to the issues of those who raise the issue of another type of sustainability, that is, how effective the current models are compared to a food demand called to feed a planet that is constantly growing demographics. Then the only way we have is to focus - on the one hand - on development and research in order to reconcile all these needs and - on the other - on a healthy culture of food, that is, on an increasing awareness on the part of citizens of their relationship with food. On this too, Mr President, the European Union must not make a mistake, but must make a qualitative leap on the subject of product labelling. We need to move from the nourishing-score model, which thinks absolutely about a single food, to the nutrinform one, which illustrates the right amount of food that can be taken daily. This is because health, as I said before, passes from the construction of balanced diets and not from this or that good of consumption. We must commit ourselves to quality cheeses and meat, in which fewer and fewer additives are used, just as in the case of biscuits which, within a couple of years, have removed the use of palm oil and hydrogenated fats. Then, of course, these products will have to be balanced within a diet. Let us remember that a healthy, correct and balanced diet, together with constant physical activity, is the fundamental pillar of primary prevention, that is that strategy of main health policies to reduce the incidence of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases, which represent the first cause of death and serious disability throughout the Western world. Therefore, the Italian battle at European level is not only right for the defence of our companies, but - if you will allow me - it tends to greater objectives, including - above all - the one linked to the health of our fellow citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u32	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u33	Mr President, I personally and the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group are extremely pleased that we are finally talking about nutri-scores, without us bringing this issue to the attention of the public and of Parliament. The other two times - both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate - the appeal had come from the opposition. It is pleased that this time it is a Senate Commission that understands its importance and submits to the House a document that gathers the will of all political forces, no one excluded, to put an embankment not only ideological, but also scientific to this absolute nonsense of the streetlight label that someone would like to pass as a scientific. We had denounced it already a year and a half ago and brought to the attention a few months ago and today it is finally the heritage of the whole Assembly and political forces how absolutely anti-Italian and against Italian products this subtle attempt, disguised as protection of public health. Moreover, objectively, we have seen many attempts to exploit public health also in Italy and we have not had to wait for the European Commission or a part of the European nations to realize that this use of health is being used a little bit when there are no arguments and health is the only glue that allows political forces to maintain their status. Now, focusing on the Farm to Fork strategy, we would not only have a direct criticism of the nourishing score, but also something to say about certain more ideological than useful attestations, such as those that the Farm to Fork document states. We have denounced from the first moment the placing of constraints on Europe without looking at what nations do much more polluting and less attentive to the environmental issue, which are among other things those to which in the coming years we should think about how to feed. There is a clear contradiction, which strikes quite a bit, between the rules that we self-impose in Europe to protect the environment and the exponential increase of the population around the world. In fact, even if we respect the environment as much as we need to start to feel like something that is one with us and not something third compared to us, we have to ask ourselves how we can then feed a population of the world that is growing absolutely. Otherwise we risk writing beautiful pages of anthology and philosophy and then not being able to make sure that all, even the countries we call today in the developing world, are able to develop as our thousand-year-old European civilization has managed to do in recent years. I am talking about this because it seems clear to me that there has been more ideology than innovation in the document before us, more attention to the merely consensual aspect than to a true and in-depth analysis of what food production should be and, above all, what should be at their base, namely agriculture. I'm a little out of the nourishing-score theme. I remember in fact that the nourishing-score did not generate great interest today because we all realized the importance of healthy food. It has not risen to the honours of the news because in this it has read a strong penalty of the agricultural sector, which among other things would translate in the immediate, but simply because this instrument penalizes the entire Italian supply chain, from agriculture to those who make exports, from the houses of transformation to those who care to maintain the territory. Here we have succeeded, as a nation system, and not only through politics. It is true that Brothers of Italy brought the theme to the attention of the Assembly, but it is equally true that there are people in the Ministry who have sounded the alarm bell on the subject since 2018. Therefore, we who would like to boast that we were the first to raise the issue, do not realize that inside the Ministries there were already people who knew of the danger of what was happening and they are the same people who are helping us to clearly manifest the antiscientific nature of these operations, but also the solution. This is perhaps the first bell that should ring, that is to say that we have such professionalism in Italy today that not only allow us to warn the danger first, but even allow us with the elaboration and with the help of so many private companies to elaborate the answer to these problems. The nutrinform battery is in fact the answer to these problems and is the result of the great participation of all the political subjects, of all the technical subjects and also of private subjects that have made themselves available; Federal, the University of Luiss, all people who built our position against the nutri-score. If it had been a merely political position, of opposition between states and between nations, most likely the interests that have dominated until now those nations, in which the nutri-score has flourished, would have massacred us from the point of view of scientific evidence. Today, however, we must thank the great technical work we have done in the Ministries. I thank the Undersecretary Centinario for thanking in this case the entire structure. Clearly, someone must have the intellectual honesty to tell you things when they don't work, but to tell you that we, Nazione Italia, regardless of who is in the government today, can count on absolutely valid professionalism. To these, however, we must add other professionalism that allows us a higher step, that is to increase innovation in agriculture, to return to the yields of 1984, to cite a classic example that I always remind everyone. In the year in which the farmer was painted as in the famous film by Pozzetto "Il gioco di campagna," in Italy the production per hectare of corn was higher than that of the United States. [[Applause]] It means that programming and innovation had been done by someone in previous years, dragging them to the 1980s. Today we must start from there, from that concept of innovation, which does not mean forgetting tradition, but simply means having the tools to bring agriculture back to the level it deserves, that is, to a primary sector not only in name, but also in general consideration. Also because clean and sustainable agriculture is what our farmers already do, gentlemen. Wanting to take something for example, we should not apply methods that resemble those that are used whenever the Ministry of Economy and Finance intends to make an intervention on the Municipalities, that is the famous linear cuts that, regardless of what the savings of the mayors have been, are penalized both the good ones, and those that - as they say - have not beaten a nail and for ten years, perhaps, have financed the potato festival every year, constantly, increasing its resources. I see the same thing on the agricultural front: we cut and demand from all the same decrease, for example the use of plant protection drugs, when we all know that Italy is the sixth country in the world for the gradual use of plant protection drugs. I do not know one farmer who poisons his own soil in full awareness of the fact that the next year he has to go back to work on it: no one kills himself in agriculture. However, there are even more global challenges, such as climate change, which must enable our farmers to have those instruments, even chemical ones, unfortunately for a share, until we find a natural system that replaces the chemical system. As when a human body is ill, even a plant, even a field, even a cultivation need interventions, which are chemical, for the first part, and then transform into natural interventions, as soon as science and research allow it. This is where we have to go back to investing: chemistry, research, innovation, in order to bring agriculture back not to the Heidi period, but to a respect for the land proper to our tradition, but that today must be combined with a strong innovation, which must bring back... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u34	You're welcome, Senator. I had already given her more time, but she can certainly conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u35	DE CARLO (FdI). I would like to end by thanking and appealing to the whole of Parliament to speak and speak about this by calling for more innovation and more research. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u36	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u37	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to speak again, as some have mentioned, but now we hope very effectively, thanks also to the work of the 9th Commission, agriculture and agri-food production (for which I thank all my colleagues, for this time too we have arrived at a completely shared and built-up act) of an issue for us substantial. For almost two years we have been talking about how important it is - and we have repeated this many times in this House - the agro-food sector. We have noticed this particularly in this pandemic, in which never one day there has been a lack of food on the counters of our supermarkets and during which we have had more time to know our products. Some research in this sense shows how, especially at the first moment of the pandemic, one has returned to look carefully and with interest at what one eats. The Democratic Party, in dealing with the issues, considers it a priority and fundamental form, education and information; it is even more so when we talk about what we eat and what we feed on. It is crucial to know and build a healthy diet and lifestyle and, therefore, build our diet so that it can also match our well-being. This tells us that building a label on a food product becomes substantial, fundamental. This is why we are against a system, that of nourishing scores, which gives information as if we were to eat only a certain food, only and only a certain nutrient, taking it out of a context that is, instead, that of a balanced and varied diet, that all nutritionists and even doctors tell us to follow. This fundamental element of balance of diet and variety of diet is not included in the nutri-score, doing first and foremost harm to those who consume that particular food. It is unthinkable that only one thing should be eaten, whereas the labelling of the nutri-score suggests exactly that, with these colours and letters, which show only the observation and consideration of a food, which can do more or less badly: as if we were to feed exclusively on carrots or fennels and, on the other hand, only sweets, chocolate or even wine, on which I will return later. We, on the other hand, are exactly for the culture of food, for the culture of a healthy lifestyle, for a label that is informative, that is to tell us what that food is composed of, what are its nutritional characteristics, its components, its organoleptic characteristics. This is because each of us, who will know exactly what the food that goes to buy contains, insert it into his diet, into his diet, so that we can then follow a healthy lifestyle. The theme is not, therefore, to look only at a single nutrient and a single food, but to consider it: I have already said it, but this is a fundamental point to understand the harmfulness of the nourishing score and, instead, the potentialities of the nutrient form battery, which is the system that, in our opinion, must be applied within our eating habits. Too much scrub: this leads to the nutri-score, which we think is a wrong method. Our Mediterranean diet teaches us very well that the variety, with every single food that must be inserted within it, is the maximum in terms of nutrition. This also involves the protection of our food and high quality products. Certainly Italy can boast a lot of them, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only an Italian issue. Each country has high quality food, which should have an interest in guaranteeing, of the garrisons it should have an interest in guaranteeing. We do not understand why, therefore, this message does not pass in Europe. Let's talk about our wine, our oil, our cheeses, our meats. Food of the highest quality, which are also the result of important investments made in this area. It is therefore misleading and, at times, the result of false reports to argue that foods such as our wine, when used with caution and in adequate quantity within a balanced diet, can even be harmful. Mr Undersecretary, what we, through the Presidency, send to the Government is an invitation to defend first of all the culture of eating well, the culture of healthy food and, above all, a healthy lifestyle. This objective, in our opinion, can only be pursued with the nutrinform battery. And we hope that Europe will realise that, in this way, every country will be able to best preserve its food quality garrisons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u38	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u39	Mr. President, what's new? I would say no: the nourishing score is that traffic light labelling system proposed by France which assigns a colour, therefore a green light or not, to each food based on the level of sugars, fats and salts calculated on the reference basis of 100 grams of product. Intuitively, therefore, green foods, i.e. green traffic lights, are preferable to red ones. You understand that foods of great importance for our agri-food heritage, such as olive oil, Parmesan cheese or even Parma ham, would become foods not recommended by the nourishing-score. Why isn't that new? Because this political pull and spring on the food sector has now become an annoying custom that returns to Europe on time and cyclically. However, going to make an important effort on those characteristic features that are distinctive and representative of the added value of an economy, the Italian agri-food one, means in reality being able to control it and acquire its market shares, so it is a real economic battle. Who for morphology, culture and climate must resort to intensive crops and nations that have obvious interests of competition with respect to the quality of our food productions is clear that they begin to look at the primary sector as an additional element that shifts the needle of power. After all, if industrialization and the economy know about sinusoidal trends related to markets, technologies, the evolution of society and other thousand factors, it is true that, even though involution in their own way of life, the human being cannot be without food: we have been witnessing continuous attacks on our Made in Italy and on our diet for years: from the impediments of customs law in Regulation No 1169 of 2011, where the transformation and not the origin of the raw material is sufficient to define a made in, to the age-old issue of low-quality GMO crops, always pushed - it happens - by the German lobby. Today, the evolution of European legislation leads to the phenomenon of traffic lights and cancer plans. The first, that is the nourishing score, does not take into account the integration of the elements of the diet: we said that it deals exclusively with making the list of good and bad, without giving any weight to a balanced diet. The other uses it, for example, to include wine in the list of products with carcinogenic impact (of course, a low consumption of wine is not carcinogenic). Two parallel modes that, by their very nature, will not meet even if they talk about the same thing, that is, about food and health. Moreover, in doing so, we are going to penalise those who, like Italy, have always been the flag bearer of the Mediterranean diet, of its benefits and of the responsible, healthy and integrated use of alcohol such as wine which, apart from sporadic cases for which another window of discussion should be opened, has made health, food correctness as an instrument of well-being and longevity and multicultural research its economic and cultural base. I would like to open a small window on health and I would also like to understand further, when possible, what the real position of Minister Hope is, since Walter Ricciardi, adviser to Minister Hope, has clearly sided in favour of the nourishing score. This would have a strong impact on our country's interests, unless it was decided that the government would take another road. This is not about health; it is about the economy, because the ratio of our battery system is precisely this: combining the quality, the organoleptic properties of foods and putting everything into an integration with a healthy diet such as the Mediterranean one, which - we should explain it to the gentlemen of the European Commission - helps to prevent cancer and does not induce it. I know about the game of alliances, but this wall against a wall is unacceptable. Attention, the nourishing score is not scientific; it is a great scientific nonsense to say that the nourishing score is good for health. At a time when anti-science is scary, it should be avoided to bring it into the agri-food sector with completely insane theories such as those that putting a light on foods could give a balanced diet. I therefore hope that, as we unanimously endorsed this motion in the Committee on Agriculture, this Parliament will also express a unanimous no to the nutri-score, and this will give our Government the strength to stand up for this controversial position in the European fora and to say no to the nutri-score both on economic matters and on public health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture because they have brought a very interesting subject to the attention of the House. The green deal, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, through an eco-sustainable transition of production and processing systems, has two particular implementation tools: a strategy that has been called Farm to fork and the biodiversity strategy. These two strategies have ambitious objectives to achieve by 2030. I remember, among other things: a 25% increase in organically grown areas, a 50% reduction in the use of pesticides, a greater efficiency in the use of nitrogen and phosphorus nutrients, which will lead to a reduction in the use of fertilizers estimated at around 50%. Attention, however, ladies and gentlemen, because the words are well written: it is not an increase of 25% in organic agriculture, but it is necessary to have at least 25% of the organic land in Europe. Baby, but not banal matter. Another subject, Mr Undersecretary: is it calculated on the total area of cultivation in the European Union or in each of the Member States? Italy, for example, is already the leader, with almost 20% of organic land. So Italy can reach 25% through these two strategies, but in other EU countries we start almost from scratch (think of Hungary, Northern Europe, Poland, Croatia). These are acceptable objectives, of course, colleagues, but there is no effective assessment of the overall impact of these objectives on the agri-food sector. These objectives are likely to reduce the competitiveness of European agriculture, particularly Italian agriculture. Not only has the U.S. Federal Department of Agriculture established, but also the most authoritative authority in the sector, the University of Wageningen, has established that there will be a significant reduction in agri-food production (from 7% to 12% less), that consumer prices could increase by 17%, that there will be an increase in imports from third countries that do not comply with these rules and regulations. Before we move on, Mr Undersecretary, we need a prior and preliminary assessment of the impact of these rules. Fight at European level, fight hard, because our agro-food sector is really at risk. Alongside these strategies is also the theme of nutrition labelling, which you have previously defined as "nutri-scores." A small self-criticism, Mr. Undersecretary: they have been talking about this issue in Europe since 2017. I do not attach it to his responsibility, but the presence of our MEPs on this subject was most likely to have to be urged a little earlier, to stop, because we risk getting short on things and then you can bring home what you can. The nutri-score is absolutely not good, it punishes anonymously - as my colleague De Carlo said, whom I thank - with a vertical cut all the productions of excellence of our country, which are not only PDOs and PGIs, as President Vallardi very appropriately recalled before. Let us remember what our farmers did during the pandemic: they did not miss any products on our tables and in our restaurants. [[Applause.]] I think he should be told a strong and convinced thank you. Italy is an example in Europe of agricultural production. Mr Undersecretary, beat your fists hard on the table; let us make it clear to the European intelligentsia that you can't joke about these things before you go on with color labels. Yesterday it seems to me that they want to put the black color on the wine. We are against abuse, not against use: a healthy glass of wine is good for everyone. [[Applause]] It is against abuse that we must go. We don't make ideologies about these things. I believe that our agriculture needs strong support from the whole of Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u42	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u43	Mr President, my fellow senators, I renew my doubts and I urge questions worthy of interest, such as those who want the nutri-score and those who are structuring the Farm to fork. If there are politicians, but above all our producers and producers, who have many doubts, I do not understand why there are associations acting as lobbyists who are in favour of this devious mechanism, which is also easy to understand, but very cowardly. It is a method that compares coca cola to olive oil because they are two liquids: as if I compared a shark to a red fish because they are two fish. [[Applause]] It is therefore a method against excellence, on a request already well packaged and conditioned, and it is annoying that, among the associations that are part of Euroconsumers, there is also Italian Other consumption in favor of the nutri-score, with 377,000 members, who I think do not know that this is part of an international network, that the BEUC to which it is registered does not accept, billing also 200 million per year and seems to be investigated also in Panama papers. Besides them, there are also online newspapers always linked to them; therefore, to think wrong is sin, but often you guess, as someone said. And then, there are wealthy wealthy people who push for artificial steaks and then produce them in bioreactors, consuming not only energy but also water. There is above all one fact: if Italy does not accept the nutri-score it is also an objective reason, because our diet, UNESCO heritage, allows a higher longevity in Europe, a better life expectancy - Germany, for example, is seventeenth - and the lowest index of obesity, than in France, another country that wants the nutri-score, has increased by 145% from the eighties to today. There is to worry instead about infant obesity that is increasing precisely because it is watering down and polluting the Mediterranean diet. That is precisely what we do in our Commission, the defence of the Mediterranean diet, and I thank all the members of the Agriculture Commission, starting with our President Vallardi, because we are defending the more than 1.5 million companies that allow us 15% of GDP in Italy, with over 500 billion turnover. We have also done enough with the Government; we have achieved some results: the defence of balsamic vinegar, of the milk supply chain; we have lowered excise duties on beer, set up a fund for African swine fever, obtained an increase from 105 to 160 for the fund for farms damaged by atmospheric adversity. Still, five million to save beekeeping, 20 million plus 56 million for gastronomic excellence, 500,000 euro for aromatic plants, 25 million for the promotion of wine. We defended Prosecco from Proek and the Italian Chianti label [[Applause]] ; we put two million for the distribution of food, we wanted the register of agro-mechanicals and we also wanted a fund of five million for the purchase of machinery and software for agriculture 4.0. We do this because we put our face on, and we do it with the undersecretary Gian Marco Centinario, a prepared person; therefore, this is also our task to be in the government. The food is narrator of Italy and if we do not defend it we will lose smells and flavors that have made us grow healthy. The Farm to fork, from the farm to the table, is desirable if it is from Italian farms to tables all over the world and not the other way around. It is like the history of energy: we make it produce in France and we buy it at a higher cost. There are doubts. Some of the Farm to Fork methods are good: reduction of pesticides and antimicrobials, fertilizers, loss of nutrients, but, as the Department of Agriculture of the United States of America says, you even have to import fruits and vegetables, practically the Mediterranean diet. A greater demand would entail a higher cost, a greater shortage of products and pollution of the Mediterranean diet, and that is how much we risk being caused by the Farm to fork. Then there is the other huge problem of Italian sounding, which could be even more relevant. We already lose 100 billion compared to 50 billion from Made in Italy. We must therefore also pay attention to the contradiction that exists in Europe when trade agreements are signed with Mercosur, where it is polluted and where imports are permitted. Nutri-score and Farm to fork are therefore commendable projects, but Italy can do without them, if our Mediterranean diet is affected, synonymous with good growth and health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u45	Mr President, the farm to fork ten-year plan is the tool with which Italy and the European Union become a model of a more sustainable production system, capable of producing healthy and quality food for European consumers, ensuring an adequate income and greater competitiveness for producers. The document aims to achieve the objectives of sustainability and the fight against climate change set out in the green deal launched by the European Commission. The motion tabled by the members of the 9th Commission (agriculture and agri-food production) of the Senate shares Europe's desire to make the agri-food system even more environmentally friendly, without forgetting the need to recognise and compensate for virtuous behaviour and always looking at the essential objective of the economic sustainability of companies, without which it is not possible to achieve environmental and social ones. The path marked by the Farm to Fork strategy must also be included in the strategic choices of the National Plan of the future CAP, the European agricultural policy, providing concrete actions and incentives to companies engaged in the objective of an even healthier, fairer and environmentally friendly production system, in order to halve the quantity of chemical pesticides by 2030. Excessive chemical additives in the environment are one of the main causes of contamination of air, soil and water, and have a negative impact on biodiversity and climate, as well as on human health. Organic farming is the practice that needs to be further developed so that 25% of the total agricultural land is dedicated to organic farming by 2030. In order to increase the share of land cultivated according to biological practices, further development along all stages of the supply chain is necessary and appropriate economic incentives to encourage local production and short distribution channels that would allow farmers to fully benefit from the added value of organic products, ensuring the ecosystem 30% more biodiversity than conventionally cultivated land. Other objectives of the Farm to Fork plan aim to improve information to consumers through a new European food labelling system and for this reason I express concerns about the obstacles posed to the Italian model, the nutrient battery, which places the nutritional properties of a product in an overall framework of daily needs, thus promoting healthy foods such as those of the Mediterranean diet compared to synthetic or industrially processed ones. The government must therefore make every effort to ensure that the European Union has a fair and impartial system, that gives objective scientific judgements in relation to the nutritional values of food and that it protects health without penalising production chains. In the same way, we need the utmost effort to prevent any form of discrimination against our country's agri-food excellences that avoid penalties in the allocation of European funds for the promotion of food, considering the high nutritional quality and attention to environmental sustainability and biodiversity that Italian productions guarantee through the delicate combination of ancient tradition and technological innovation. Today, for example, the Strasbourg Parliament will be called upon to vote on the report drawn up by the special Commission on the fight against cancer. Among these, there is also the provision of wine bottles with a black bottle, which is a sort of anticipation of the uncrite way of labelling products provided by the nourishing score, the system at the traffic light produced by France since 2017, which risks boycotting healthy food in our country such as extra virgin olive oil, Parmesan cheese, ham and obviously having a disastrous impact on the entire agri-food sector. It is no longer possible, colleagues, at this point, to prolong the spread of a production method compatible and in line with the agro-ecological approach. Today is the day when Italy must assert its rights and acquire its leading role in the agri-food sector to guarantee the health of its citizens, the economic stability of thousands of businesses engaged in agriculture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u46	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the high level of the speeches that have been made in the Senate House today. Everyone has expressed opinions, in some different cases, but certainly important and all with the sole objective of protecting the made in Italy, but above all the final consumer. I would like to remind you that the government has been at the forefront for years to protect our producers, our excellences and what we consider to be a heritage, our agri-food. This, however, is not becoming the battle of Made in Italy against the rest of Europe, but the battle between those who believe that the nouri-score is a failed project and all the rest, therefore the supporters and creators of the nouri-score. There are our colleagues in France, Spain and other European countries who think like us and are helping us, they are supporting us. I therefore ask everyone not to make it a European battle for Italy against France or the rest of Europe. I simply ask you this because it would become a failed battle, which we will lose [[Applause]] This year Europe will be obliged to give an indication, in favour or against, of the nutri-scores; therefore it will be a particular year, in which in the parliamentary classrooms but also in the public opinion we will talk so much about nutri-scores and nutrinform. So let's continue our project; let's make it clear to more citizens of our country that the project carried out by Italy is winning and serves to protect the consumer. This is what we must do: protect European consumers. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the work they have done. [[Applause.]] (18.13) (Second Chamber, State Secretary for Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies) I would also like to thank all the technicians and all the Italian citizens who are helping us, because, for those who are listening to us outside, it is a warning to continue working in this direction. The opinion on the motion is in favour with some rewordings of the provisions. It is proposed to reword the first paragraph as follows: In order to ensure the sustainability of the actions, account should be taken of the need to identify the calculation criteria and time-references from which to measure the achievement of each objective, it should maintain the determined position already taken at European level with particular reference to the procedures for implementing the actions of the action programme, which should be preceded by in-depth impact assessments. It is then proposed to reword the second paragraph by replacing the words: "to undertake" with the following: "to continue to undertake". On the last paragraph, the favourable opinion, where accepted the following rewording to replace the words: "to support" with the following: "to continue to support" With these rewordings, the opinion is in favour of everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u48	Senator Vallardi, do you agree on the reformulations?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u49	Mr President, the rewordings put forward by the Government are certainly acceptable to me and to the Commission, as they reinforce what has already been agreed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u50	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u53	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the agri-food system is the cause and victim of climate change: it causes not only 7% of pollutant emissions, as ISPRA says, but 18% if all activities related to agricultural activity are included (from the production of materials used, to energy and water consumption, as the FAO has specified). Intensive farms, grazing and methane emissions are among the main causes of climate change. It is also a victim if one considers the increasing damage to production due to the excessive drought or the strong floods, not to mention - then - of roads and swine fever, all epidemics linked to the rupture of natural balances to chase the mantra of production at all costs. It is with great delay that the European Union is changing its approach to agricultural policy; for too long it has gone in the wrong direction, favouring large industrialized enterprises and intensive farms. It is high time that the gigantic subsidies no longer go only to the larger ones, but that at last a part goes also to the more virtuous ones, including that mountain agriculture too often penalized by European choices. Something's moving, but it's not enough yet. Mountain agriculture, with its niche productions, has always played a valuable role as a garrison of the territory, disincentive to depopulation and contrast to hydrogeological failure. It would deserve even more attention than the one given to it in the last CAP, like all those companies that are focused on sustainability. 70% of the contributions are still distributed on the basis of the size of the enterprises or the number of animals raised, with the result that 1.8% of the companies take 32% of a cake of EUR 400 billion. Meanwhile, growth theorists, who said that productivity and the global market needed to be focused, are also admitting that the game is lost. We will never be able to compete with countries that have standards of protection of people, the environment and animals much lower than ours. We must then change strategy, looking at quality and sustainability, because this is the only way the system does not fail. More attention has been given to European consumers for some time now. As petitions and surveys show, more and more people are no longer willing to tolerate the suffering of animals in intensive farms and are also willing to pay a higher price for quality food. The Farm to Fork strategy, with its commitment to small farms and regional products, the contrast to too long chains and the protection of human and animal health certainly goes in the right direction. The resistance of the large agri-food lobby against this change of paradigm in the distribution of aid must be overcome. Of course, such a radical transformation will increase the prices of certain foods, but it will save on real costs. A cutlet that costs EUR 2, is actually paying 20 between costs related to biodiversity loss, water pollution, global warming, increased health costs for wrong food. Some might object and wonder how we put it with any dumping strategies. The European Union is one of the world's largest food producers and to avoid unfair competition, it would be sufficient to introduce a mirror clause whereby only those products that meet the same sustainability criteria are allowed to be imported. The construction of an easy-to-understand system on the health effects of food should also not be demonised. The problem with the nutrient score is that by measuring only fats, sugars and salts without taking into account additives and pesticide residues, it does not take into account the processing process when all studies say that ultra-processed products are the most harmful. It thus ends up building a distorting communication that does not protect from the ultra-transformed products and does not push citizens to a balanced diet. The problem is not wine or cheese, but how much you drink or how much you eat. It is right then that Italy expresses the doubts represented in the motion that we are about to vote on, but this must serve to strengthen and not weaken the commitment to an ecological transition that, let us not forget, is the last train for the salvation of the planet. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u56	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Farm to Fork strategy has long been taking a leading position, particularly on the European agenda. It is undoubtedly an important and important project, but, as has already been said, it risks being compromised by labelling models such as those of nutritious score that in fact penalize many food products, including certainly those made in Italy. In this regard, we must therefore make a premise; we are all aware of the central role of nutrition for the well-being of society, but not only that its range of action is much wider when we think of the fact that production methods are central to achieving a greater balance between man and his activities. This is not a secondary issue at all, but it is also a central issue at European level. It is in this context that the Farm to Fork strategy is developed. This is a strategy that the European Union, together with the one on biodiversity for 2030, has transformed into the pivot of the European green deal, reflecting the fact that environment and nutrition are closely related. An eco-sustainable transition of production, processing and transport systems also passes through informed consumer choices. The green challenge that the European Union has set itself in its new course and which should lead us over the next thirty years to progressively achieve a zero impact on the emissions of human activities is necessarily developed through the strategic role of agriculture and food production. The Farm to Fork strategy aims to achieve sustainable food systems, recognising inseparable links between healthy people, healthy societies and a healthy planet. With this in mind, the importance of a solid and resilient food system becomes equally important and can provide citizens with sufficient supplies of food at affordable prices. These are certainly ambitious objectives, which directly involve all the actors in the food chain, asking them to transform the way they produce through solutions that involve a progressive reduction of pesticides and fertilizers on the fields, but also the circular bioeconomy, with the use of renewable energies, production of biogas and biorefineries, to produce food for the livestock starting from the waste of other processes. If you look at the context in a wider way, you can easily see the fact that Italian animal husbandry has taken this path for years, with excellent results. Of course, we can do better, and that is the objective set by the European Union, through a remodulation of the Community's agricultural policy, whose funding will go to support important branches of the whole sector, such as organic farming or precision agriculture. It is very important, therefore, to focus on how these objectives will have to be achieved. It is true that the Farm to Fork strategy is accompanied by a very tight timetable, which provides for actions to be included in sectoral legislation. But it is also true that, in the light of these deadlines, it is essential to assess the impact of such a methodology on the specific national context. This gives rise to some critical issues. Several studies have shown that this strategy would lead to a significant reduction in agri-food production, resulting in higher prices and a fall in world trade. However, the debate is focusing on a specific aspect, i.e. on the labelling model, which sees two models in contrast: the nourishing score, promoted by France, and the one, first underlined by the Undersecretary, supported by Italy, i.e. the nutinform battery. Although it is clear that the second model, the one we advocate, is more in line with the system objectives, France, Germany and other European countries have progressively made their own, instead, the nourishing-score system, generating a number of concerns, at least for two orders of reasons. First of all, there is a more strictly technical-scientific profile, which concerns the effective suitability of this methodology, ready to provide nutritional and qualitative information on foods, really able to support the purpose of consumer health protection. To date it seems that this labelling system is based, however, on partial and misleading assessments, which do not take due account of the nutritional judgement of the individual ingredient, within the framework of a varied and balanced overall diet, thus damaging, in the first place, the same consumer. There is also an economic profile which raises a great deal of concern and concern. I refer to the foreseeable negative impact that such a labelling system could generate on the national economy of countries like ours, for which the food sector, with its universally recognized excellences, represents not only a certainty, but a significant component of GDP. We think, for example, of the proposal of the proponents of the nourishing-score system to insert a letter F on all drinks containing alcohol, albeit to a very limited extent. Many economies, including ours, would of course be severely penalised and disadvantaged. Such a system, while starting from the aim of pursuing objectives of consumer health protection, undoubtedly results in a severe penalty for all those countries that, like Italy, because of the high quality and the levels of excellence of their food production, would be highly competitive. The real risk of this system is that economic and trade policy will end up distorting competition on the market, penalising some economies. This is therefore in stark contrast to the founding and founding aims of the European Union and - it is worth remembering - pursues objectives of strengthening economic cohesion and solidarity between the Member States. That is why, with this united motion, we ask the Government to intervene quickly and well. It is essential that the need for in-depth impact assessments be made before action is taken. Consumers should be properly informed and educated in a healthy diet in a wider framework of healthy lifestyles. In this the Italian food and wine excellences are school, because they are the clear representation of a healthy and balanced lifestyle. It is therefore necessary for the Government to act well and quickly. The importance of the commitment that we ask the Government does not concern a single political part, but it covers the entire parliamentary arc, and that is why it is nice to know that the motion is united, it belongs to everyone. I believe, Mr President, that we are still in time to prevent the benefits of ambitious projects that can be shared from being cancelled by an approach that, instead of facilitating, would end up penalising the agricultural world. This is our objective and I therefore express, through this joint motion, the favourable opinion of Italy Viva-PSI. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u59	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, Mr Senator, allow me first of all to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the work we have done, and in particular Mr Vallardi, for the sensitivity shown in wanting to involve the opposition in the drafting of a joint document to which we have joined firmly. It could only be otherwise because, when we talk about national interest and the defence of national interest, we have never failed our support and our contribution. The defence of our agri-food industry also corresponds to the defence of national interest, not only from the economic point of view, for the great value that the sector represents for national GDP, but also because our agri-food is the result not only of the entrepreneurial capacity of many farmers, farmers and processors, but also of our culture and our traditions. I would also like to thank the Undersecretary Centinario and Minister Patuanelli, who is not present, for the commitment they are showing and for the efforts they are making both at national and European level to defend our Made in Italy. Allow me, Mr Undersecretary, also to stigmatize the fact that I do not remember and do not revisit the same commitment from the rest of the Government or from one part of it. You see, Mr. Undersecretary, the defence of agro-food also goes through economic policies of support and enhancement of the sector. Unfortunately, I say, we cannot flag the fact that in the last budget law the resources for agriculture have doubled compared to the previous law when in absolute terms, on a maneuver of more than 30 billion, we can only reach a few hundred million as direct resources for the sector (of course I am talking about direct resources). It cannot be said that it is believed in the sector if the PNRR invests in agriculture just over 6-7 billion on a Plan of about 300 billion. Not only is there little economic attention, but I am also thinking of the banking system, where our farmers, fishermen and farmers find enormous obstacles to access to credit. In summary, Undersecretary, despite his commitment and despite the commitment of the Minister, we do not think that the Government as a whole invests substantially in this sector, which represents almost a quarter of national GDP. So, Mr Undersecretary, I do not even see a foreign policy which is aimed at protecting national interests and protecting the sector. I am thinking, for example, of fishing (I would like to give an example to everyone), where there is no strong policy to protect our fishermen and defend our seas (I am thinking of relations with the countries of North Africa and with the countries of the Adriatic). On the contrary, we often represent in this sector the soft belly of a Europe that has left the fishing sector in the Mediterranean to its fate, while defending ocean fishing by the sword. And I could go further. Instead, we come to the subject of the motion. I would like to stress how the way in which we have to deal with the Farm to Fork strategy, that is, pragmatically, has been highlighted, without letting ourselves go to often ideological environmentalist enthusiasms. I say this in particular to those colleagues who are dealing with the environmental issue but do not have a practical view of the problem. We have written this clearly, reporting important studies, such as that of the U.S. Department of Agriculture or the Joint Research Centre, which warn of the danger that a farm-to-fork-driven strategy can paradoxically create negative effects for our economy. The figures are clear: a substantial reduction in European agricultural production from 7% to 12%, depending on the extent of the application of these strategies; an increase in consumer prices by about 17%; a substantial decrease in production and a large increase in costs, which will put our farms in difficulty; an increase in imports from non-EU countries, where controls are very low, as we know, then creating those conditions in the rest of the world (such as deforestation and an increase in mass production with even greater use of chemistry) which we are trying to curb here in Europe. Some taxes, such as the 10% allocation of agricultural land to biodiversity, must also be re-discussed and analysed on the basis of cost and benefit principles. This provision, in my view, is even more damaging to our national agriculture, which, apart from specific geographical situations, does not have a large amount of land available. The morphology of most of the national territory already has green corridors and areas for biodiversity in itself and we cannot therefore apply this provision in a linear way. I am thinking of the many hilly areas, where there are numerous crops, where the land is used up to the last meter and where, moreover, there are already uncultivated natural areas that can allow the passage or the protection of biodiversity. I am thinking of the imposition of 25% increase in agricultural land for organic farming. Great purpose; but we have a duty to safeguard the quality of food, as well as to guarantee everyone the possibility of feeding on healthy and guaranteed products. We know that organic production substantially reduces the yield of the land; consequently, there will be an increase in costs. I personally believe that we cannot create such an agriculture that we then have to divide between A-series and B-series consumers, i.e. consumers who can afford expensive products compared to consumers forced to feed on poor quality food from other countries. On this too we will have to reflect and not accept impositions that do not take into account the specific characteristics of Italy, where, organic or not, there is a high quality of our agricultural products. The desire to impose the nutrition labelling system, Secretary of State, aims at the type-approval of products without taking into account their true contribution to an overall food system. So much has already been said about this and many of my colleagues have well explained what it means, which is why I will not repeat myself. However, I would like to point out that it is important for us to use the nutrinform battery system which, in contrast to the nourishing score, can actually give serious information to the consumer in order to evaluate the purchase of a particular product according to their food needs. That is why we wanted to insist that the mechanism should include a commitment to pursue initiatives to promote this type of labelling and also to introduce new testing systems, including through the creation of specific apps to have more data and to be more convincing towards the European community. I also stress the importance of point 5, which few have highlighted, where the Union is urged to adopt specific clauses to prevent imports of products that do not reflect the criteria of environmental, economic and social sustainability: an altar, unfortunately, on which we are paradoxically sacrificing so many of our companies. We've been talking about civilization duties for a long time, but we're not listening. Much more could be said, Mr Undersecretary, but I would like to invite you - if you give me a moment of attention - to pay great attention to asking for the full support of the whole Government of the risk that we are running, inherent in this system of the formal emergency, that economic and commercial policies are applied in Europe as well as unfair, even hostile and aggressive, especially with regard to us, that they are going to alter the competition of the market by favouring some economies and penalising others, moreover in clear contradiction with the founding aims of the Union itself. On this point, in defence of national interests, of our agriculture and of our agri-food, you will always find us ready. For these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u62	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what the Senate has decided today to put at the centre of its activities is a crucial issue; certainly it is for agriculture and for the agro-food sector of our country; but I dare say that perhaps it is even more so for the protection of a healthy food model and for the protection of one of the elements of style and quality of life among the most appreciated in the very concept of made in Italy. As several colleagues have already said before, the European Union, by interpreting the sensitivity, availability of data and trials accumulated over the years, and a growing awareness among citizens on the issues of climate change, environmental sustainability, animal welfare, quality and impact of food on animal and human health, and in general on the interaction between the environment and the quality of life (and therefore also health) of people, has put in place in recent years, among others, the Farm to Fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy by 2030, and is implementing the regulatory framework on food labelling to guide in a more environmentally sustainable sense a transition of production, processing and transport systems, accompanied by informed choices by consumers. The strategy we are talking about pursues ambitious objectives, as has been said before: protection of at least 30% of European rural and marine areas; the transformation of 10% of agricultural land into areas with high biodiversity; the increase to 25% of organic land; the reduction of the use of pesticides and 20% of fertilisers by 50%; the reduction of total sales of antimicrobials by 50%. All this to be achieved by 2030. We are talking about food products that will have to be made respecting the environment, a cleaner and healthier environment, a better and healthier use of food, for a healthier life and in a more sustainable environment and for better quality of life. This is a fundamental and necessary path, but it requires management to make transparent and correct the relationship between the food produced in this context of rules - ours - and the products imported and made with different rules and conditions, not always equally guaranteed, safe and respectful. We owe it to the respect we have towards our farmers and our consumers: it would be paradoxical to give us more restrictive rules and therefore perhaps, as has been said before, produce less, and then have to import products made with less guarantees and perhaps it would be useful to reflect even socially to those who would be destined for these products with less guarantees. [[Applause]] That is why we call for an assessment of the impact and the necessary insights to protect and guarantee farmers and consumers. As regards the pursuit of better use and awareness of food and consumers, this transparency was already regulated by Regulation No 1169 of 2011, concerning the provision of information on food, which in Article 35 provided, precisely, the possibility of forms of expression and presentation of the main field of vision, in order to help consumers to judge at a glance the essential nutritional characteristics of food at the time of purchase. The path started allowed experimentation and it is precisely on how to implement this prediction that the comparison we are dealing with today has opened, because the models that compare - the nutri-score and the nutrinform battery - are two conceptually different approaches, which are carried behind two visions of nutrition. On the one hand, there is the idea of a standardized diet for all seasons and latitudes, with few products valid everywhere, with few simple indications to feed, where the products are treated exclusively on the basis of the intrinsic characteristics, regardless of their use - cheese, red traffic lights; ham, red traffic lights; alcohol wines, black bubbles - regardless of the quantity and context in which they are used and consumed. Instead, we believe that if you eat 20, 30 or 40 grams of a product and in a slow context, it is completely different than eating 500 grams of a product. Swallowing it. We believe that it is a completely different approach to the theme and our Italian experience of history, culture, traditions, the same UNESCO recognition to the Mediterranean diet are there to make it plastically evident. Our country is not for a standardized diet; our country is the country in which there are 841 designations of origin, 16 billion only of production, of which 10 of export linked to 286 consortia of protection that safeguard and follow its production, involving 200,000 operators in the sector. With this awareness, which puts health at the centre, we believe that food consumption is almost as important as what we consume, although we are aware that we also have a lot to say about the intrinsic quality of products. The proposal of the nutrinform battery comes from an awareness that is evident to all: the quality, the culture, the seasonality, the territoriality, the typicality and the origin of the food productions are under attack, in the name of a massive and standardized globalization. This, however, is precisely the opposite of the virtuous peculiarity of our food model. Mr President, Martin Luther King has written that it is always the right time to do something right and we are not here to defend our food model and, as the Undersecretary rightly said, our agriculture; we are here to defend an idea of food and consequently of agriculture, which places at the centre the quality, the protection of health, of life, with a greater awareness in defence of health and of people. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this motion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u65	LONARDO (Mixed-I-C-EU-NdC (NC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Centinario, the European green deal is the project to make the production of energy and the lifestyle of European citizens more sustainable and less harmful to the environment. It aims to transform the European Union into a just and prosperous society, with a modern market economy, where greenhouse gas emissions will be zeroed and growth will be cut off from the use of natural resources. There are two strategies that will play a key role in the transformation of our food systems: the Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 and the Farm to Fork Strategy. The latter, in particular, consists of a set of targets, including reducing chemical pesticides by 50% by 2030, reducing nutrient losses by at least 50% while ensuring that soil fertility does not deteriorate, thereby reducing the use of fertilisers by at least 20%, always by 2030. There are also targets to reduce the sales of antimicrobials by 50% for farmed animals and aquaculture by 2030 and to allocate at least 25% of the agricultural area to organic farming by 2030. Time is therefore short. This would seem to be a long list of good intentions, except that, in a more detailed analysis and according to authoritative studies, this strategy that will guide European agri-food policy in the coming decades presents a series of contradictions from an economic, environmental and social point of view, as well as a series of enormous risks for states such as Italy that include, care for, cultivate, breed and export products of excellence. According to a study by the European Commission's Joint research centre based on the Common Agricultural Policy Regionalised Impact (CAPRI) model, production declines from 5% to 15% are expected in all sectors of agricultural and livestock production, with the worst results for the bovine-pollo-suino livestock sector, as well as for the cultivation of cereals, oilseeds and fruit and vegetables. Again in the report I mentioned, a net increase in the production prices of agricultural products by about 10% is expected in the face of this decrease in production. Moreover, according to the reports of changes in European production, this would lead to a fall in exports and a worsening of Europe's trade deficit. However, one of the most critical points in the report is the assumption of the impact of this strategy on emissions. The report underlines that the Farm to Fork strategy could help reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 28.4% in the agricultural sector by 2030, but the report also highlights how more than half of the greenhouse gases that Europe will save will be produced by equivalent increases in greenhouse gas emissions in third countries, due precisely to the increase in agricultural production in those countries, which is intended to offset the projected decline for Europe. From this it is deduced that the action must be global, because otherwise it really becomes a harmful thing. This is not, therefore, an isolated study. The recent study by Croplife Europe, the Committee of Agricultural Professional Organisations (COPA) and the General Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives (Cogeca), drawn up by the Universities of Kiel and Wageningen, argues that the Farm to Fork strategy will bring significant losses to all European agriculture. The reduction of 50% of pesticides, 20% of fertilizers and 25% of organic land by 2030 could cause in Italy a 20% drop in the production of tomatoes and apples, 24 percent of wine grapes and - heard, heard - 40 percent of olive oil. These are alarming data that partly confirm the only existing impact study released by United States department of agriculture (USDA). According to the American analysis Economic and food security impacts of EU Farm to fork strategy, the introduction of the new strategy would lead to a 12% drop in agricultural production, compared to a 17% increase in prices. With regard to foreign trade, exports would fall by 20%, while there would be a significant increase in imports, with a decrease in GDP of around EUR 58 billion and greater food insecurity for 22 million more people. Another controversial proposal is to introduce a mandatory nutrition labelling package-front that would make the system misleading and penalising for many products of excellence of agro-food. Let's talk about the so-called nutri-score. This is a food labelling system where each colour corresponds to the level of environmental sustainability of a given food. The type of calculation assumed would give orange and red colors, identifying them as poorly sustainable, to many Mediterranean diet products. This would be a huge problem for Italy. In fact, to assign a color to a particular food we use an algorithm that would penalize many foods full of fat, so many of those appreciated by our Mediterranean diet. Therefore, it would exclude from the diet healthy foods such as extra virgin olive oil, grana padano, Parmigiano Reggiano and Parma ham, to favor junk foods. Undersecretary Centinario, in the light of all this it is therefore desirable that the Government take a more determined position with reference to the procedures that will guide the European agri-food policy for the coming years, demanding new and more detailed impact assessments and balanced calculation criteria in relation to the labels and that would encourage experimentation and use, engaging forcefully on the European tables for the Italian alternative to the nutritious-score, that is, the nutrinform battery that indicates the percentage of energy (fats, saturated fats, sugars and salts) indicated in grams present in a single portion of food and the energy content expressed both in joules, and in calories of the single portion compared to the recommended daily quantity. The system puts the consumer at the centre and not the global market, enhances the critical capacity of the citizen who must not be misled by colors or images that have nothing scientific and therefore defends the unique heritage of the Mediterranean diet. Otherwise, only the precarious situation of farms facing rising costs of both raw materials and energy would be aggravated. These are very topical issues these days. They are faced with new bureaucratic burdens and heavy costs, dangerous damage to food of animal origin. The changes imposed will generate a predictable increase in imports of these food products from third countries that are not subject to all sustainability requirements that are instead required by European and Italian companies. They run the risk of finding themselves in the real difficulty of not being able to cure their own crops because of a progressive reduction of the defence instruments, without, at the same time, there is no possibility of accessing less invasive and harmful substitutes. We therefore reject this attack on the Mediterranean diet that degrades our Made in Italy to promote a leveling of the eating habits of the European peoples to the benefit of the usual giants of production and large distribution. We have the civic duty, the moral obligation and the political responsibility to support and give strength to the Government at this moment in this battle of humanity and social justice, of equity and sharing, of vindication of our roots, of valorization of our productions, of safeguarding farmers and local communities. The problem is the point of compromise; politics must take into account what can be done for the common good, but it must contemporaneize it with what is necessary not to always do for the same good of the community. To this we are called today and that is what we ask you to do. For these reasons, on behalf of the Group, I voted in favour of the motion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u68	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today, as on 10 June, we are discussing nutrition scores within the context of the Farm to Fork strategy. Since that day I have met more awareness in the problem and commitment to the resolution of the same by the Executive and the Ministry. I thank the Undersecretary Centinario and Battistoni and our leader Bernini for always keeping up the problems so felt. I have found the same will among my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture. I thank President Vallardi and all my colleagues, as has already been said, with whom we have decided to bring this joint motion to the House to demonstrate our continued support for the excellence of agri-food products. A sector worth well over 522 billion euros. This sector, the driving force of the economy, the driving force of our GDP and one of the fundamental raw materials, is being called for a not indifferent effort in order to successfully achieve the many objectives set. One of all climate neutrality by 2050. It is therefore clear that it is necessary now more than ever to implement any effective tool in order to support the work of our agricultural entrepreneurs, real guardians of the Italian natural heritage. We must do this in order to protect production, our competitiveness in Europe and in the world, in a context where competition, often unfair and ruthless, seems not to help the made in Italy. We must also do so in the light of the many challenges already faced by our entrepreneurs, who even in a period of extreme emergency such as the health crisis have demonstrated high levels of resilience, guaranteeing food on our tables when this was not entirely obvious. The epidemics of xylella and swine fever, the excessive presence of wildlife, extraordinary climatic events, lack of labour, few guarantees of the income of our entrepreneurs, increase of the costs of energy and raw materials have also been added. Within the policies of the countries of the European Union we approach the issues in a naturally different way, but the synthesis to be found for common rules must necessarily be shared and harmonised among all. I am thinking of the need to choose a single nutritional labelling system within the framework of the European strategy on health aspects such as nutrition, overweight, obesity and the fight against cancer. In Italy, home of the Mediterranean diet, which we remember is UNESCO heritage and nutritional system recommended everywhere because healthy, it was thought to present as a harmonised European scheme the nutinform battery, which revolves around the conscious choice of the consumer. The antagonistic system, as we have already heard, proposed by France, is the much-discussed nouri-score system, which, by means of its traffic light labelling, directs, in the true sense of the word, the consumer's choice, in fact, by conditioning it. As Forza Italia, last November 23 we presented our anti-nutri-score plan, determined to avoid its adoption at European level, because it is detrimental to Italian interests and especially because it is dangerous for the consumer. We have already done so in this House, but I still remember it, because it is emblematic: our extra virgin olive oil, cornerstone of the Mediterranean diet, emblem of healthy eating, would be labeled as orange-red, while a portion of chips, fries with who knows which oil, used who knows how many times in any fast food, according to the nourishing-score would have a green light. All this is absurd and dangerous, because this labelling does not fulfil what should be its sole task: to inform consumers correctly, educating them to a healthy diet and lifestyle. It is a few days ago the news that the inventor of the nutri-score proposes a new tint of the traffic light: the funeral black for any alcoholic product, triggering controversy, not only in Italy, but also in France, being Italy, together with France, leader in the sector worldwide. We know that all products, only if consumed in excess, cause damage to the organism. So where does the desire to label any beverage with an alcohol content above 1.2 percent come from as highly harmful? I think it's because of the desire to ride the wave and attend the talk shows. All this, however, to the detriment of the many Italian producers and not, but also consumers, alerted by an incorrect and poorly appreciated international information system. Different studies show the consumer's willingness to receive information on the quality of the food they buy, on the effects on health, therefore on the intake in terms of fats, sugars and salts compared to daily intake. In particular, the nutrinform battery is the type of system most appreciated by consumers. I hope that with today, pending the final decision by the Commission and hoping for wisdom and rationality, we can write the end word to an unjust attack on what represents one of our flagship flowers, that is, the Italian treasures of agro-food. By fully sharing the commitments that the Government will take on through this motion, such as the promotion of the nutinform battery, the initiatives for the recognition of the value of the productions made in Italy, contrasting the phenomenon of 'Italian sounding, until the contrast of the imports of products that do not comply with the same criteria of environmental, economic and social sustainability imposed on European producers, announces the favorable vote of the Group Forza Italia, sure that any decision that will be taken by the Executive will be to protect the sector. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u71	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, Italian agri-food is synonymous with excellence. In 2020 Italy confirmed itself in the first place of the European Union to 27 for added value of agriculture, with over 31.4 billion euros, ahead of France (30.2 billion) and Spain (29 billion). Also in 2020 there was an average increase of 9.7% in the consumption of the product symbol of the Mediterranean diet, such as extra virgin olive oil, fruit, vegetables, up to pasta. Fruit, with an increase in purchases of 11 percent, is the leader of the expenditure classification; in the second place, extra virgin olive oil, where consumption increases by 9.7%; following the high profits recorded by the pasta made with wheat 100 percent made in Italy. Remember that the Mediterranean diet has been recognized as an intangible heritage of UNESCO because of its peculiarities, based on the balanced consumption of food that belongs to the culture and the millennial tradition of our country, which is characterized by its varied heritage of biodiversity. It is therefore unjustified to work to put in place systems that should be characterized by the right information to consumers for proper nutrition, but that are actually more conditioned by ruthless market logics that are based solely on economic interests. I refer explicitly to all these additional labelling systems, designed and patented by private agencies and which union bureaucrats would like to impose on all countries, regardless of the respect for the traditions and food cultures that have always characterized and made unique the more than 100 European peoples. [[Applause]] As far as the food regime is concerned, this Europe also thinks in a sterile and aseptic way, based solely on quotas and measures. For example, the nourishing score system, even if it reaches the consumer in an immediate way, providing in a simple way the information required with the use of colors and letters, actually bases its judgment on the elaboration of complicated systems based on algorithms that condition the judgment of the consumer, relying only on some nutrients such as salt and fats, without making a more articulated reasoning, based on the right portions and doses to be taken during a food day. Hence the paradox of seeing rejected products such as our Parmigiano Reggiano and extra virgin olive oil, while at the same time they are promoted carbonated and sweetened drinks: this is a real shame. [[Applause]] This system doesn't seem to get stuck in front of anything. After meat and cheese, now wine is also under attack, a drink that has belonged for millennia to the history not only of Italy, but of the whole of Europe. In fact, the ultra-processed products and those that can be reworded and built in the laboratory to ensure that the components are all within the palettes established by the algorithm. In this way it will be easy, for example, to get a seasoning with a green nourishing score, putting that amount of fat, maybe vegetable, to give flavor without raising the score too much, as well as that little salt that is enough to be within the limit that would trigger the next point; a little protein that compensate for that pinch of extra fat and voila: the dressing is served. This is not the Mediterranean diet. With a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, which will have a yellow label, an alert signal of the nourishes-score, instead, a salad is seasoned in a healthier and more pleasant way. The large organized distribution can amplify the phenomenon and influence the choices. The risk is that greener products are promoted as safe, to fill the trolleys with food that could not always have optimal quality. Ultimately, if the nourishing score has been conceived as a tool to combat overweight, it is believed that, on the contrary, it favours an increase in the consumption of ultra-processed foods, which will appear green and healthy but are not. [[Applause]] Moreover, it does not focus the attention of the consumer on the necessary portion of food and does not contribute to proper food education, since it penalizes better food. It is news of these days that France proposes to add a sixth letter, the F, associated with the black colour, to classify the drinks containing alcohol even in small quantities: it is very serious, if we think that this is due to the fact that in the wine there is a very small amount of alcohol, among other things very reduced (from 5 to 15 percent maximum), which would give it a danger connotation, so as to denounce its carcinogenic effects. This is a real strategy of terror that is based on increasing the right fears of consumers without entering into the merit of the due differentiations that must be made between the use and the abuse of a food. In the light of this set of evidence, we consider it of great importance that the national scientific community, in particular nutrition experts and those who deal primarily with the issue of obesity, intervene in the debate taking place at Community level, stressing that, on the basis of the evidence available, the package-front labelling system proposed by the Italian Government called nutinform battery should be considered the most appropriate to increase the nutritional knowledge of the public and consumers and to provide consumers themselves with the information necessary to deal with it with more preparation, and therefore probably with a better result, the theme of the prevention of overweight and obesity. The value of our agriculture, the agri-food chain and the Mediterranean diet cannot be sold for reasons that have nothing to do with health and healthy food. [[Applause.]] I quote a phrase that seemed trivial, but which today has an unequivocal value in my view. Oscar Wilde wrote: I can't stand those who don't take food seriously. We, in addition to taking it seriously at the table, have the task of defending with our nails and teeth our made in Italy, because the Italian food supply chain and consumers need it every day. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Parliamentary Group has firmly brought this motion to the House today, together with the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to thank President Vallardi and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, for together we have built an important and united motion. We will vote in favour, to reiterate that we will leave nothing unturned to defend our agri-food heritage and our excellence of Made in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u74	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Minister, Italy holds the European primacy of agri-food products certified with designation of origin and geographical indication: 315 agri-food products and 526 wines, in total 841 Italian excellences totally different from each other, which are part of the culture of good nutrition and which fully contribute to the Mediterranean diet, the intangible heritage of humanity. A nation, ours, which for geographical conformation, climate, territory and biodiversity represents a unique on the planet. Great landscape and natural richness are the framework for excellent productions, not at all recognized and appreciated in the world. A certification system that is well integrated with the European Farm to Fork strategy, the ten-year plan prepared by the European Commission to guide the transition towards a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system. A strategy that aims to put a stop to the alterations of rural and marine areas, maintaining a part of these areas with high biodiversity and preventing as much contamination as possible caused by human activities, by this prevailing humanization. By 2030, a number of regulatory actions in the EU area will aim to achieve environmental protection rates that ensure sustainable production of goods and increase biodiversity. The sustainability of the actions to be implemented is also necessary to ensure this. These must be preceded by in-depth impact assessments in order to prevent distortions and practicability of the same: an action that can in fact create difficulties for the productive companies in this phase of adaptation and even radical changes. That is why we are calling for measures to support the economic and structural efforts needed to transform the situation. A transformation that affects the entire production structure as it is accompanied by a almost general reduction of the quantities of product for the cultivated areas, for example, with biological method, and the same applies to the farms that, in order to guarantee animal welfare, need more space or the reduction of the number of animals; therefore, important structural adjustments that could be penalized in terms of competitiveness on the foreign markets, given the consequent increase of the costs in proportion to the reductions of the production. This situation must be carefully assessed within Europe in order not to lose slices of the market inside and outside Europe. That is why the motion before us calls for a mirror clause in the EU, which allows imports from abroad only for products that meet the same sustainability criteria as producers in the EU, our producers. Faced with this present and future scenario, made up of precise indications on various aspects of healthy and sustainable production, there is something or someone who introduces different approaches to cast shadows on our agro-food production. One of these is the system of labelling at the traffic lights of French conception, so-called "nutri-score": a gross simplification that does not provide truthful information about the real nutritional value of the product. And, as if that were not enough, comes the last find, which consists in the addition of a black color to the colorful nutrition-score labelling. A black bottle to indicate the maximum harmfulness for all drinks that contain alcohol, including wines, our wines. As you can see, it is an all-round attack on our productions for the benefit of new nutritional solutions that have nothing to do with the appreciated Mediterranean diet. In colored bubbles we try to delegate all the nutritional information, when it would be better configurable, for a more conscious choice of the product, through the Italian proposal of the nutrition form battery labelling, which makes the consumer more aware of the existing balance for the consumption of the various foods and the weight that they can take daily regarding their own well-being. Our consumers want to be more informed not only about the nutritional aspects, but also about how the product is made. We want a nutritional culture that educates the consumer to follow healthier diets and not to direct it by following colors with a sterile glance. It is the intention of the whole Italian system to make Europe understand the real qualities of food, both Italian and not only, whether they are part of the Mediterranean tradition or not, and their right consumption. Made in Italy cannot come out weakened by imprecise and simplistic chromatic solutions that hinder what has always been recognized as good and healthy. The nutrinform battery is the most balanced solution that meets the real needs of consumers, increasingly attentive to health and to the search for innovative solutions that are easy to find, such as apps, which can help in the detailed reading of this system on packaging. A system that will allow a very complete label to be displayed based on the indications of the World Health Organisation. Everything is in the logic of wanting to defend the consumer, the producers and the whole system, starting with agriculture. Therefore, the Italian Government's maximum commitment to support agri-food and made in Italy is required, devoting PNRR resources to the fight against the phenomenon of Italian soiling, i.e. the counterfeiting of products that would seem Italian, but that are not. A further eighty determination must be applied to the economic assessment of the current transition, thus to the review of the times and ways to mitigate the penalties not only for our companies, but also for the competitiveness of the European production system vis--vis the rest of the world. For all these reasons, the vote of the 5 Star Movement on this motion will be strongly in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u75	I call on Senator Vallardi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No. 456 (text 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u78	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, the Movimento 5 Star Group joins the Assembly's greeting to Senator Romualdo Coviello, who died on 21 January. Senator, as well as academic, for long years he carried out research in the field of agricultural economy at the University of Bari and Basilicata, and then moved to political activity as regional adviser first, president of the Regional Council and regional councilor for agriculture and economic programming of the Basilicata Region. He was also Deputy Head of the National Committee for Agricultural Development and Professor of Economics and Agricultural Policy at the University of Bari. Elected senator continuously from the IX to the XIV legislature, he was also secretary of the Commission for the interventions of the Mezzogiorno, Vice President of the Commission for Labour and Social Security, President of the Commission for the Budget and Economic Planning of the Senate and the European Affairs Commission. He was also Vice President of the Italian Interparliamentary Union Group from 2001 to 2006; he participated in UIP missions abroad and in work in WTO and UN Commissions. Since March 2011 he has been a member of the Scientific Council of the National Institute for Food and Nutrition Research. His memory, President, speaks to us of a strong political commitment to his land, Basilicata. To him and his family goes our greeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u79	Senator Lomuti, we join your memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u82	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, today 15 February is the World Day against Children's Cancer, established by the WHO to raise awareness of the institutions and public opinion on childhood cancers and to express support and solidarity to children and adolescents with cancer, to those cured, to those who unfortunately have not made it and will not make it in the coming years; to their families, so badly affected and that they experience internal suffering, hardships and economic and organizational difficulties; to their caregivers, emotionally participating, but ready to give every help and assistance to alleviate the physical and psychological suffering of children, great heroes. Child cancer is diagnosed every year to about 400 children and adolescents in the world; every three minutes on our planet a boy still dies of cancer, despite improvements in diagnosis and welfare levels, today much higher, and the possibility of new excellent therapeutic approaches. The main theme of today is to reaffirm the need to ensure a fairer access to treatment and treatment for all children and young people suffering from cancer in the world, both in the poorest countries and in the most economically advanced. I am referring to appropriate treatment, given with the right time and by competent doctors and health professionals. We give roots to hope: to celebrate life beyond illness, we send a message of love, a pomegranate to be planted to support research on child cancer, and we wear a golden ribbon, universal symbol of the fight against child cancer, so that it represents a precious sign of closeness to our children and of attention to their future. We recognize their strength, their courage, their resilience. Every child with cancer deserves the best care. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u85	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, today hundreds of thousands of workers over 50 have not been able to go to work and will be left without salary; they are added to the hundreds of thousands of workers in the health, school and safety sectors who have not been able to work for months, because they are suspended from work, and they are without salary. Moreover, as of today our colleagues, both in the Senate and in the House, like so many other workers, cannot exercise their duties. I am referring in particular to the House, to Pino Cabras, our colleague from L'alternazione there is, and here in the Senate to two other colleagues whom you know very well: Emanuele Dess and Mario Giarrusso, who couldn't get in today. I would like to talk to you about this, inviting you to reflect. Today the whole country is less free and this Parliament is certainly impoverished, because, for a government measure still unconverted, the prohibition for some parliamentarians to set foot here and to assert their point of view impoverishes the democracy of all Italy, without representation a part of the country and deprives all of us of a point of view that could be useful to make the right decisions. That is why I invite you to reflect and I tell you that I, together with all my colleagues in the opposition component of the Mixed Group, will do everything possible to break these libertarian norms that divide and impoverish the country. No day will pass without us reminding you of all this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u88	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the same subject as my previous colleague, because today, on 15 February, the rule of vaccination for those over 50 years of age has come into force and, therefore, the duty to present the so-called enhanced green pass to go to work. Without going into the merits of the measure itself, I know that in Parliament as in the country, as in the Government, there are different sensibilities and I respect them all. However, we would like to stress something that should concern both you, Mr President, and the Presidency Council, as well as the Government itself. At an acute stage of the pandemic - whether it pleases or not - certain restrictive measures of personal freedom, which even touch a constitutional right such as that at work, can find their justification. At a stage such as the current one, which according to experts is now endemic and no longer acute, certain measures have no real reason to be. [[Applause]] We therefore wish the government well, but not only that, since then Parliament is us. I am addressing all my colleagues in all the parties: let us reason and try to understand well what is happening, in the light of the economic situation, the energy crisis, rising inflation - prices, including food prices, are now skyrocketing, and those who go to the market and shop know what I am talking about - and the entrepreneurial fabric that is likely to close. Can we afford to leave a million unpaid workers at home? [[Applause]] This is a reflection we make to the Assembly and to the Government. We are the people's representatives, because if the rules apply to citizens, they also apply to Members of Parliament. That must be clear. A popular saying says that hunger infuses courage and we must be careful not to create a spiral of social tensions that can be very, very harmful not only for the economy of our country, but also for the social estate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u89	Senator Romeo, I will inform the President of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u92	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I also speak at the end of the sitting. The Brothers of Italy Group takes note of the declarations of the League and its Holding Company. However, we would like to point out - I am sorry that the House is now empty - that for months Brothers of Italy has been fighting on the green pass and has tabled amendments. We have said in all fora both in the Commission and in this House that this measure would lead to a great deal of economic and employment problems, but our words have always fallen into the void. I remember that we are the only country in the world that has introduced such a limit for those who work and - above all - that this is a measure that is not health, but political, that is leading to real disasters. Therefore, we are very pleased that we are taking note of this today, but I recall that the Government and the majority that supports it have always spoken out against any of our amendments aimed at putting an end to this discrimination. We will continue in our battle, but it seems to me that time has expired. Moreover, Italians understand the absurd: up to forty-nine years you can go to work without the super green pass, while after fifty you can not do it. I say this without even dwelling on all the procedures that have been provided for the smart working. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-403.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 16 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
