ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on document II, No 12. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteurs, Senators Calderoli and Santangelo, whether they intend to intervene to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u4	Madam President, with your permission, I would ask that we be able to read the report, as agreed with the other rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, who is not present today on health issues, and that we now reserve the right to intervene in more detail in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u5	The Presidency accepts your request, Senator Santangelo. Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u6	Madam President, the amendments to the Senate Rules that we are debating today are necessary for the constitutional changes that have taken place, first and foremost the cut in the number of Members. It is right, therefore, to adapt the forms through which parliamentary activity is carried out to this important change. In addition to this there have also been others, such as the decrease in age to vote for the Senate, the reduction from three to two of the representatives of the Regions for the election of the President of the Republic, as well as other constitutional innovations. It is therefore necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure and to do so with some important forecasts, including, for example, the one establishing the status of the Senator who does not belong to any Group, who did not exist before; it is still expected that if a Senator passes into a new Group because he is expelled from his membership or resigns, no new resources will be allocated to the Group which hosts the Member of Parliament and this is a very important thing. The text also contains other changes that are no less important, which will certainly help to improve the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and its functioning. However, I want to put a fundamental issue concerning the inspection union, which is a very important activity at parliamentary level to make sure that citizens get to know things that happen within the Government and within the public administration for which the Government is responsible. The senator may ask questions to know the government's activity, but there is part of the administrative activity that concerns the state that is not referred to the government, but, for some years now, to the independent authorities. It is not stated anywhere that the parliamentarians can question the independent authorities, and that is strange. We have often been refused - rightly - by the President of the Senate or through the offices some important questions to shed light on facts concerning the independent authorities. These authorities are also governed by European norms and it is right that they are independent of political power, but there is a somewhat paradoxical situation, in the sense that the leaders of the independent authorities are appointed by the government and parliamentarians cannot question the authorities about their actions. However, there is a government responsibility and Members of Parliament, who are the "citizen's operating arm," cannot access information. The independent authorities are heard by us at the hearing, they answer us, they bring us documents, but there is no real and strong formal act by which the parliamentarians can access the information and still have the confidence that this information is actually real. In my opinion, it is therefore necessary to establish this new activity, this new institution, and I thought that the amendment of the Rules of Procedure could be the best opportunity to implement this. Then perhaps it will not be enough and we will need laws; let us reason together and in the debate, in my opinion, we could talk about this in order to find the best way for Parliament to be able to question the independent authorities. Let me give you some examples of facts on which action would be necessary. I am thinking, for example, of ARERA and the price of gas: a few weeks ago a new rule was adopted according to which the price of gas can no longer be referred solely to market developments - which, it has become clear, can be influenced by other factors - but it must also refer to the actual price of the raw material. ARERA every three months with a resolution sets for gas the price of the raw material and, by chance, in the last few days ago it totally ignored this new rule: in this case it would be necessary to intervene. If I still have 30 seconds, let me give you an example of sleeping policies, which relate to IVASS, another independent authority. IVASS has done extraordinary work to highlight how many policies potentially dormant, so much so that from that study of IVASS we have managed to quantify the resources that are available on the chapter of the dormant accounts and we have managed to compensate the savers of the banks that have failed. IVASS, however, unfortunately - he has told us in the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the banking and financial system - cannot investigate whether the insurance actually pays back the people who are entitled to receive sleeper policies. It is a bit complicated, it is not very simple; but it would be useful to highlight how much insurance does not return to the heirs of the policies actually entered into, because it is one thing to have a policy signed and another to go and look for the heirs for this money to be returned. Unfortunately, this often does not happen; IVASS has highlighted it, but unfortunately it does not have the means to sanction insurance. (Appalusi). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u7	Madam President, I would like to concentrate briefly on the amendments I have tabled to the text today, which, although different in their wording, are intended to recall within the Rules of Procedure of the Senate the figure of the parliamentary collaborator, who daily assists us senators in the exercise of institutional functions, but who incredibly does not yet find the necessary recognition. The Regulation already provides for the support arrangements for Article 166, which regulates in particular the organization of the offices, i.e. the administration, and Article 16, with a reference to the staff of the parliamentary groups, where it is specified that the contributions charged to the Senate's internal budget are intended for institutional purposes, as well as for the functioning of the Group's bodies and for the economic treatment of employees. There is no trace of the collaborators. Yet they exist, they work inside the palaces equipped with badge, at our side, every day. I think it is time to give dignity to this professional figure and for this reason I propose first of all to speak to Article 1, in which we talk about the prerogatives and rights inherent in the senator's function. Prerogatives which are linked to the exercise of their duties and for which senators must be able to make use of their employees, whose employment relationship must be governed by an internal regulation adopted by the Presidency Council. It reflects the aims of the second proposed amendment, which deals with Article 12, which - I recall - regulates the powers of the Presidency Council, in order to specify that it is for the Presidency itself to approve the regulations governing the employment relationship between senators and collaborators. Finally, a third amendment introduces an additional article, 166- bis, which specifies that each senator is assisted, for the performance of his duties, by one or more collaborators freely chosen from among staff outside the Senate administration and that the employment relationship is governed by a regulation of the Presidency Council, identifying the methods of payment of remuneration and the payment of the related tax and social security charges within the limits of the resources allocated annually in the Senate budget. On this third proposal I would like to point out that there is no obligation on individual senators, but it is only expected that, if a senator wishes to hire a collaborator, he can do so freely, respecting a framework of rules that the Senate itself is called to give itself. Colleagues, today we have the opportunity to affirm the right of each senator, even without office, to be able to make use of trusted, competent and qualified staff, as an indispensable instrument for a full and effective exercise of his prerogatives. This is what happens in the parliaments of other European countries. Not guaranteeing this principle weakens the function and the parliamentary institution as a whole. I would like to conclude by recalling that the Senate is already committed to recognizing the figure of the parliamentary collaborator. We did so on 21 December, when the internal budget was examined, when the G3 agenda (text 2) was adopted, at my signature, which commits the Senate to regulating the working relationship between the Member and the collaborator. I would also remind you that during the same sitting, Mr De Poli confirmed his willingness to work, in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, on a solution for the discipline of the matter. Personally, I am committed to healing this anomaly, using all the tools that the Constitution provides. I have long presented a draft law on the discipline of the working relationship between Members of Parliament and their collaborators (Act of Senate 2215) and I promoted, with the Italian Association of parliamentary collaborators, a conference on the subject, which took place last Tuesday at the Zuccari Hall of Palazzo Giustiniani. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time for promises has expired. It is time to put a system of standards in black and white. There is little time left for the end of the legislature and the changes we are making to the Senate's Rules of Procedure are aimed at adapting it to the changed constitutional framework. Reducing the number of parliamentarians does not mean reducing the amount of work of parliamentary assemblies: anything else. It is for this reason that we must strengthen the support equipment and give a fair recognition to those who work with us. That is why the new Rules must recognise the figure of the parliamentary collaborator and put an end to this Italian anomaly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that this reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure is not the first of recent times. At the end of the last parliamentary term, a very important one was adopted, which introduced some rules to speed up the work and which, if adopted by the other branch of Parliament, would make it easier for certain aspects of the process of passing the laws. This reform is mainly due to the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, approved with an amendment to the Constitution, which required at least to adapt certain numbers, such as the minimum number of senators to form a parliamentary group or to request votes of a certain type. These numbers obviously had to be adapted to the new reality. On this we all agreed, as well as on some speeches not necessarily related to the issue of the number of senators, but to common sense. I am thinking of the rule set out by President Pesco, of which I have shared many of the arguments and which he has presented. The Budget Committee is always overworked. It is for the work it does generally, for the truth, but, when the Government does not cooperate, as has happened lately, and does not provide technical relations, the work stops completely. The proposal, which has been unanimously adopted and which is now, of course, submitted to the House's decision, is that the budget Commission should not give its opinion on all the amendments, but only on those adopted. This, of course, greatly reduces work and makes it possible for this to be done even more precisely and precisely. We, as the Brothers of Italy Group and specifically Senator Zaffini and I, who have followed the work of the Committee for the Rules of Procedure, have not shared some points of this reform, outside the issue of numbers, which I summarize here. One aspect relates to senators who do not subscribe to any group. Until now, those who left one Group and did not enter another, either by their own will or because no one accepted it, joined the Mixed Group, which has a particular situation. With the text that arrives in this House, which can always be modified by the amendments, it is expected that senators who leave their group and do not pass on to another, will become non-attached to any group. It is a curious thing, because already today there is the institute of senators not enrolled in any group, but it is a privilege of senators for life. I call this privilege without any negative connotations. The senators for life have a particular profile: they are former Presidents of the Republic and people appointed for very high merits, as the Constitution provides, so it is also normal that they may not join any Group. The current Regulation provides for this as a possibility, not as an obligation. That is why it is clearly a privilege. Now, providing any senator with the opportunity to enjoy this privilege we do not believe to be acceptable. The intention is to discourage the transitions from one group to another, but let us not forget that we are at a time when the parties have been belittled, subjected for decades to accusations of all kinds. Let's be clear, the parties have made many serious mistakes, but this is in the dynamics of things: if they were all perfect, a perfect party would suffice, but thanks to heaven there is no one and therefore there is pluralism. However, the fact of getting rid of any party label and even the label of the Mixed Group is frankly a privilege that can be good for the senators for life, on whose discipline we would have liked to intervene more widely, because we do not think it positive to have, as has happened in the past, government majorities that stand on the senators for life appointed in an indispensable way by the President of the Republic. However, since there are, we do not find it positive to equate to them senators who, either by their own will or because no Group receives them, remain without Group; the only disadvantage they have is that of not being able to take advantage of the support of the Groups. However, especially in a Senate with reduced numbers, where every senator is worth 0.5 per cent of the Assembly, there are not only the structures that the Senate can offer; there are immense interests outside the Chambers that have no problem financing all the needs of a senator, provided that he puts himself at the service of those interests; I believe that we must guarantee each senator the same support (since, with or without a group, his vote is as valid as that of those who were from the first to the last day in the same Group), at least to prevent someone from helping enormously higher interests as an entity and often also as a power even political. Just think about when Klaus Schwab, a private citizen, makes invitations to the World Economic Forum and leaders from all over the world run by a private person who evidently has unlimited economic possibilities through him and his friends. I say this to give an example, but this afternoon, during immediate questions, we will talk about a single official of the Government who, with a small signature, guarantees a billion as a gift for Covid refreshments to the poor Benetton and the subsequent managers of the highways. This is the real money, not the small funds that the Groups have or can support a Member. With regard to questions, there is not only the question raised by an interesting amendment that Senator Pesco mentioned earlier about the possibility, which certainly needs to be studied, of being able to question the members of the Authorities in some way. There is, in fact, a problem in this particular case, mentioned by my colleague. At present, the Independent Authority regulating gas prices is making sure that there is a "crest" on the price of gas, which has already tremendously increased. Based only on spot prices and not on long-term contracts, which make up the bulk of gas supply, a real "crest" is created for gas distributors and sellers. This is an example; it is good that these Authorities are independent, but they cannot be totally indisputable and above any possibility of information, investigation, inspection activity, which does not mean going to the place, but asking questions and having answers. In this regard, I move on to another important aspect, which is not the subject of the reform and there is no need for it to be. I am referring to questions: there are not only questions to those to whom they cannot be addressed today, but the Government, under the Rules of Procedure, should reply to all questions within twenty days; the answer to a question has, however, become a part of the lot, i.e. it can also happen to receive an answer, as in the case where, going to play three numbers, these are extracted and a certain sum is won. Instead, this would be a duty of the government. It is particularly serious that no answers are received on issues where the government then takes decisions. In fact, as long as they are answers to issues outside the government's action at that time, in the new measures, they are fine. But when we have a topic that is being carried out by the government and it does not respond to what it does, it is really very serious and breaks the balance that should be there. In fact, as we are a parliamentary republic, there should be Parliament above the government. Sometimes we're really underneath. I would add another aspect that is parliamentary practice, which is certainly not found in the regulations that say nothing about it. Not many years ago, in most cases, when the rapporteurs gave their opinions, they also explained why they were in favour or opposed to a certain amendment. In most cases, when there were thousands, explanations were given to groups. Well, lately, we see the rapporteur turning too often, perhaps almost always, into the reader of the opinions that are given to him by the Government, as the rapporteur himself sometimes says. This is not written in the Rules of Procedure, which does not prohibit it and does not impose it, but I believe that the Senate has a duty to regain its dignity. As has been said, the reduction in the number of senators does not mean less work and should not mean less role, but more role. However, this also depends on the political will of individual groups and senators who must not be mortified. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u10	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to point out that this speech is also on behalf of Senator Gregorio De Falco, who is absent today. The reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, like that of the House's Rules of Procedure, has been made necessary by the constitutional reform that has reduced the number of parliamentarians. It was therefore a technical choice, which was virtually inevitable in order to allow the next Parliament a function, which it could not have had after the so-called cut. Instead, it was decided to also intervene in the matter, in particular by introducing the category of Senators without Group, a sort of pariah senators of series b. In fact, it would not only be a choice of a possibility granted today exclusively to senators for life or law, but also a real sanction against those who decided to leave the Group in which they joined at the beginning of the legislature. This is a reform that the Secretary of the PD Letta had just supported when he spoke of 300 changes in the stock exchange and said that these choices would degrade the Parliamentary Institution by a process of unacceptable intentions, where it is believed that any change in the Group is due to reasons of mere power. Certainly this has happened and Letta probably refers to concrete cases, such as that of Italy Viva, but it is clear that when reforms are made against, sometimes a boomerang effect is created that strikes, sooner or later, the sudden reformer. In fact, it is a real populism in a jacket and tie that speaks foreign languages, different in form, but not in substance from the shouted one that is so stigmatized. A populism that skilfully ignores Article 67 of the Constitution and wants to strengthen the already suffocating control of the parties, in reality not even of the parties, but of leaders and leaders, on the parliamentarians. The current parties and the groups that are their parliamentary expressions will be armored, led by leaders who refuse to listen to the indications that come from below, from citizens and also from parliamentarians, reduced to mere employees who are prevented from expressing their conviction. I say this as a Member of Parliament, suspended by the Group for not voting on the horrendous security decrees that Letta did not like so much. Here, a tomorrow someone can be expelled and happen in the section of senators without any prerogative perhaps because he votes against the abolition of abortion or against other horrible laws such as, for example, security decrees. Attention, then, because the next Parliament may not be what the Secretary of the PD so much liked, who proposed such a reform. Maybe someone could be punished for voting against libertarian laws or laws that humiliate minorities and women. Worse still, among the pariah senators - who will be given time to speak only thanks to the courtesy of the Presidency Council - are also included the senators expelled from the Group, who are therefore punished twice. The first, with the expulsion, without any motivation for such a decision being required, and it is not that a fig leaf the supposed guarantee of the vote of the assembly of the Group, which will also be blackmailed: if you vote for the non expulsion you could be expelled too! The second, in the ban of the expelled parliamentarians, deprived of logistical structures and resources to carry out their electoral mandate properly, introducing, therefore, representatives of the nation without voice and instruments and with very narrow spaces of expression. But it's not enough. The new Article 14 stipulates that these rules also apply to the Mixed Group: an absurdity! The Mixed is a technical group, not a political one, and cannot be compared in any way to others. We do not understand how there can be expulsion from the Mixed One because this, in fact, does not have a definitive political position: perhaps we will have to accept budgets or items of expenditure that are not welcome, otherwise we are expelled. It is also threatening the diction that binds the senator's membership to a group other than the one from which he is coming out - willing or unwilling - to acceptance on the part of the President of the receiving group. Already today, in fact, the entry into the new Group requires the approval of the Chairman of the Group itself, and no unnecessary rules are ever made. So what's the point of this diction? A warning, taking into account the fact that the outgoing Member will no longer carry the so-called dowry, and will therefore be a burden and not a resource for the new Group, therefore he will not be able to join a new Group, even if the old one may have voted for the expulsion of persons with the right to asylum or voted again against the right to abortion, and the Member will be sentenced not to go to any Group. It is also serious to link membership of the Groups to their stay in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and in that of parliamentary elections and immunities. The Councils, not by chance, bear a name other than the Commission; they are certainly made up of political representatives, but they are also, and above all, judicial bodies. The Council for the Rules of Procedure is presided over by the President of the Senate precisely because it is intended as the supreme body of guarantee for all senators, beyond the political position protempore. And the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys is today a principle of inevitability of the component which even prohibits its resignation. Now we want to move on to the mechanism that provides for the decadence of the senator who has left the Group or who has been expelled from it, with the consequence of putting under the control of the political group itself also votes and decisions that must instead be free from constraints and coercions, even more than it is for normal procedures. Imagine having to give permission to proceed for someone and be blackmailed because the Parliamentary Group eventually expels you from that Junta; Therefore, there will be a power of blackmail on the part of the Parliamentary Group. Punitive democracy, therefore, a populism not shouted out, not brought into the streets, but worse, in the Rules of Procedure of the Chambers, very delicate instrument of democracy that now becomes an instrument of repression of dissent, immediately after the foolish reform that has reduced the number of parliamentarians and the increasing weakening of Parliament and parliamentarians towards the Executive. I appeal here to that political force which complains so much about the coercion that the Draghi Executive exercises on parliamentary bodies. It will be worse: the next President-in-Office of the Council will not be welcome, but he will be in charge. A word must also be said about the desire to include in the Rules of Procedure the figure of parliamentary collaborators, whose situation of constant precariousness is unacceptable. Certainly no Member can be bound to choose collaborators who do not enjoy his trust, but it is clear that these professional figures who support us, who at every legislative end find themselves out of work, must be recognized. For this reason, it was intended to include them expressly in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in order to achieve a first fundamental step in the formal recognition of a profession never formalized by the parliamentary order, despite involving people with skills and experience. This would strengthen the commitments made over time by the institution with the agendas accompanying the approval of the Senate's internal budget. Unfortunately, apart from the individual amendments, it is precisely the structure of the reform of the Rules of Procedure that is wrong and aimed at stifling and not protecting the freedom of individual senators, stigmatized in advance and punished if they wish to express the legitimate dissent of the Group of Members and it is not said that the next Parliament is to be welcomed by those who proposed this reform. I therefore invite you to meditate on the fact that sometimes the reforms "against" eventually fall on our heads as meteorites. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u12	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u13	Mr President, it is clear that for a long time the representative institutions and the system of relative representation, as we have known to date, have been experiencing a period of profound difficulty, with all the evidence linked above all to the ability to represent the existing pluralism, but at the same time also to govern in unpublished seasons, at times certainly unpredictable, certainly not easy, and to do both by promoting a high level, as solid as possible of transparency and inclusion of questions and needs of citizens. The distance between people and representative institutions is not just our problem, we would obviously be naive to think so. It is enough to recall, moreover, the dramatic images of the occupation of the American Congress to understand how critical and difficult this phase is. On the other hand, it is undeniable that from our country we all perceive it as a particular and imminent urgency. There are many symptoms that we all know, first of all, of course, the enormous rate of abstentionism, confirmed - alas, alas - once again in the last election round. It is a situation that cannot leave us indifferent, that can and must question us and certainly disturb each one of us. Many, as always, are the causes, not least certainly the great expectation that over the years has grown in front of institutional reforms many times started and unfortunately never went to port successfully. These few premises to remind myself why we are here today: the question to which we must answer is not whether it is necessary or not to guarantee the centrality of Parliament (on this I believe and frankly hope that we all agree now, I give it for acquired), but how we can do so, what are the obstacles that we must together remove so that parliamentary activity is or will return to being a recognizable, efficient activity and therefore capable of really affecting the lives and needs of the citizens whom we are all called to represent here, as that activity is up to expectations that every day, on time, are addressed to it. Today we are here to discuss the reform proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which I personally would like to thank for a thorough and collegiate work, I would like to thank its President, the rapporteurs, those who took part in the Committee and all the members. We are here first of all to complete what we in the Democratic Party, since the process of institutional reform began in this parliamentary term, has seemed to be more than an inevitable and necessary landing place; it has seemed above all an opportunity not to be lost to give back strength and weight to the role and function of Parliament. We know that the reform of the parliamentary regulations has been made even more necessary by the reduction in the number of Members, the adjustment of the organisation of Parliament was an inevitable step and it could have been limited to making the numerical aspects on which that reduction will impact coherent and homogeneous. This was a possibility, perhaps the easiest way, but a choice that in our eyes would have been a downward choice, which would have meant in fact interrupting the reform process undertaken with the aim of bringing the institutions - parliamentarians, in particular - closer to the citizens, in order to make legislative work and all the parliamentary work in general more efficient and more incisive. That is why I think that this text which comes into question is a good starting point, first of all because it deals not only with formal adjustments, but also with problems, anomalies and dysfunctions which today represent a real and concrete obstacle to the democratic life of the institutions, and that was not at all obvious until a few months ago. This text is also the first step that the Senate takes with a broad convergence of many political forces. I therefore believe that this is a result to be assessed first of all for what is there, even before what is missing, as well as we will probably hear in these hours. It is true that the most unreasonable aspects of our bicameral system remain and are likely to weigh even more on a reduced Parliament such as that of the next parliamentary term. It is therefore right to consider the situation as an open field of intervention pending further intervention, on which we as a Democratic Party are and remain available, as well as on the subject of using the vote of confidence and on the means to ensure that Parliament returns to the central role that our system assigns to it. However, we must recognise that some distortions and malfunctions have been addressed. I am certainly thinking of the issue of refugeeism, which is central to us and which is not only a problem of perception in the eyes of the citizen, but also of putting a stop to the games of exchanges and conveniences that are a burden on the parliamentary life and democratic life of our institutions. It is not at all for us to limit a faculty that our Constitution rightly guarantees the parliamentary mandate, but, on the contrary, to recognize in the certified numbers of changes in the field - in fact, numbers raised precisely in this legislature, perhaps even to an extent that we all know well - an abnormal phenomenon of democratic life, which in no way can be considered a physiology of our times, since instead of the obvious distortion of a delegation relationship that must always be exercised with enormous responsibility. We believe that the novelties introduced are right and will also produce positive effects on this front: the recognition of the non-attached senator, as is the case in the experiences of the European Parliament, which is recognised as a consistent area of intervention; the rules aimed at preventing the abnormal expansion of the Joint Group during the parliamentary term; the decadence from the office of the Presidency Council extended to the Quaestors and members of the immunity and the Rules of Procedure; the economic disincentives with regard to the Groups, as well as, in the context of countering parliamentary mobility, the forecast of the need for a greater number of members for the Groups that will choose to form during the parliamentary term. In addition to these measures, I would like to remind you of at least two others, which measure the fact that this reform action is taking place in a number of areas. I am thinking in particular of the novelty of the opinions on the amendments by the Commissions 1a and 5a in the consultative session, which will be limited to amendments adopted, thus avoiding duplication and slowing down of work, often very long, and inevitable burdens on the whole procedural process. Finally, there is the establishment of the Committee on Legislation, which will remain in office for one year in the Senate, as well as in the Chamber, and which will also deal with impact assessments. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that I think I have justified the reasons why the Democratic Party has committed itself to this revision of the Rules of Procedure. It has done so because in recent years, every time the debate on a constitutional intervention has opened in Parliament, as a party we have never stayed on the Aventine. Never have we escaped from a commitment that we thought important to improve the democratic life of the country; instead we always sat at the table with the other forces, asserting our points of reference, our firm points. We have done so with regard to the reduction of Members of Parliament, proposing our reasons for the reform, which did not always, with clear frankness, coincide with those of the other political forces. We have now done so, firmly believing in the need for corrective measures that will come from the reform of these Regulations. We also want to reiterate that the Democratic Party has always put at the centre the need to strengthen the role of the citizen, his power to decide, to be a referee and protagonist of the democratic system of our country. It is a fundamental point for us, when it comes to the electoral system, the choice of address and the majority of government, but it is also a fundamental point when it comes to parliamentary life and activity. I continue to think that representation is a cornerstone of our political system; it is by no means a transitional stage in the history of our democracies, but it remains the best way to protect the complexity of our societies, to ensure stability to the system, to bring together power and rights, the prerogatives of the majority and the expectations of minorities. But if so, then the delegation that the citizen entrusts to his elected representative cannot be exercised without responsibility; it cannot be a volatile relationship, nor can it be violated according to the convenience and opportunity of the moment. If this reform serves - as we believe - to go in this direction, not only will we all have taken an important opportunity to improve our institutions, but we will also have laid the foundations for a debate to be left to those who will sit on these bars in the future and will have to solve problems that are clearly still open. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u14	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make general comments. In the meantime, I would also like to thank those who have done this work, because I know very well how challenging it is to work on the regulations. I would like what I am about to say to be considered a contribution and then it will clearly be decided whether it is worthy of note or not. We have drawn up two types of amendments on which I would like to focus my attention. The first is the understanding of the Commissions: in our view, a combination of defence and foreign affairs must be assessed, because it is based on the idea of conceiving foreign policies as if they were related to defence, which is a subject of another kind and of another kind. That is why Senator Schifani and, above all, the President of our Group have proposed an amendment suggesting a different distribution: foreign affairs go with the policies of the European Union and defence remains apart. This is a hypothesis and we can of course reason with it, but I would ask the House and those who will then look at the amendments to reflect on the issues relating to the amalgamations, with particular attention to the question of defence and foreign policy. There is one rule that struck me in a particular way and that I would like to dwell on, not without pointing out that the measures planned for the 5th Commission are certainly measured: I recognise that from this point of view - I believe that Senator Pesco has already spoken about it, so I am not going to go too far - they are a way in which there is indeed the possibility of making the system efficient. The problem is Article 5, which belongs to the many ways in which we want to discourage the transfer to another parliamentary group. Political ways have been identified - let us call them - but the possibility of withdrawing the measure of the reduction of the contribution is also identified for the group in which the senator ceases to be a member, as well as for the target group. Worse still, it is said that the resulting expenditure savings are allocated to the budget: the concept is expenditure savings. I understand that we have certainly been through a period of great transformation and I think it is also necessary to follow this path, but we must be clear on one point: either we are going to change the constitutional rule of the mandate or on this amendment of the Rules of Procedure I would hope that there would be a minimum of attention, because this is a very important point. This rule, in our view, has unconstitutional profiles. If we want to move from the legal field to the discursive one, I would add that when I read this proposal I thought that a Member of Parliament would be weighed by a pound. It's a change I'd think about. I understand that almost all the groups have changed, the so-called change of name and so on, but here or here we defend the fact that the Member has no mandate or is not defending him. In my opinion, today, with the electoral law that has blocked lists, not defending freedom from the bond, guaranteed in the Constitution, is a mistake. But these are political assessments. It is a way in which, especially in the face of a Parliament with narrower numbers, the choices of Members who then come into natural evolution are too closely linked. Let's think of a force that goes to the government promising the moon. The citizens then discover that the moon cannot be reached and, therefore, the groups representing that political force clearly rise up and change. Frankly, I see this not as a form of transformation, but as the inevitable consequence of some political issues that have taken place and that then, perhaps, have not found their concrete application, determining what we mistakenly call transformationism. I understand when people say there are palace operations and I understand what my colleague Valente said. However, in my humble opinion, the palace operations are born because there are still political dynamics that this country must face in normal parliamentary life. What cannot be hypothesized, beyond the deterrents (also at the limit of the Constitution), is the concept for which the parliamentarians are conceived as expenditure. We are in an Assembly that is attentive to listening and we are seeing to it that we understand each other. I didn't find a single person who told me: good, you reduced the number of parliamentarians. Why didn't I find her? For the very simple reason that the Member was represented as a source of expenditure. After this reduction of Members (and I believe that today we have more awareness of the consequences and fibrillations that have been there), at least let us stop linking the concept of MEP at expense and even the contributions of the Group that - let us be clear - serve to give a Member a chance to understand how it works. [[Applause]] That's what happened to me. I am in the first parliamentary term, but although I come from experience in the Regional Council and have some basic heart attack, you understand that the Parliament of the Republic is a bit different. We took it out on the number and now we move on to the contributions. This means continuing along a path without having understood the mistakes made. For pity's sake, mistakes are always made when you want to make constitutional reforms without relying organically on a constituent Assembly. I want to stress this and so open and close a parenthesis. But let us not persevere. There has been a reduction in the number and now we have to stop comparing the Member at a cost. I do not know if you feel a cost: I frankly do not. Allow me to conclude with two thoughts in freedom. I have noticed that the current regulation has two types of problem if you are in the minority. It is a regulation thought as if you were always in the government and instead no, you are also in opposition. We must therefore be careful, because the opposition can no longer schedule any action. On this I would open a reflection (we talked about it very often with Senator Giacomo Caliendo). Secondly, it is not possible for appeals for inadmissibility to become the subject of underground negotiations. Let's put it back on. If you have to do the work that my colleague Valente was talking about, that is to rethink everything, we also look at the distortions that have been introduced. In my view, in order to make Parliament effective, simple and normal prerogatives have been removed, because they are not always governed but are also opposed. We therefore think of the Rules of Procedure from both perspectives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u17	Madam President, we have come to these amendments to the Rules of Procedure because, given the reduction in the number of Members, we have had to change the structure of the Commissions and we have also taken the opportunity to make more efficient and more effective, if we want, the path of parliamentary activity. We must be careful, however, because this is a very important task and, if the work done by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, where there are people who have devoted themselves to it, it is essential that all Members of Parliament, even the 36% who will not be able to work on it in the next parliamentary term, should be able to do so. Above all, it is important to think about these changes in the light of what Senator Modena said a moment ago, namely that we can stay in the majority, but also in the opposition, bearing in mind the balance between majority and opposition or majority and minority, as you wish, as well as - I add - the balances and prerogatives that derive from the separation between the Executive and the Legislative, the prerogatives and the protection of Parliament, and I would also say the balance that must exist between the Government and Parliament. In fact, we have had a number of problems during the current parliamentary term, with the three governments moving on. We therefore welcome all the amendments tabled to this House, which go further, because it is right that everyone should be able to make a contribution and that the whole House should be able to intervene. In particular, with our amendments we have tried to restore precisely the concept that minorities must be reserved for instruments and possibilities. Before we get to these matters, however, I would like to talk about what is important to attest to with regard to the Budget Commission, which is affected by a very substantial change. I am referring essentially to paragraph 6-a of Rule 40 - a provision which, in my opinion, would be correct to amend - which states that the rapporteur can be entrusted with the mandate to report to the House even without the Commission's opinion, if it is not expressed within 15 days of the Commission's request. Apart from the fact that Article 40 is classified as compulsory, and if an opinion is mandatory, it means that we cannot bypass it, it creates a problem, a vulnus on the Budget Commission, which, as you know, is a filter from which everything passes. Let us make a hypothesis, because the Rules of Procedure must be written precisely in order to protect the various situations that may occur in the course of parliamentary activity. If, for example, the Government is interested in favouring one amendment instead of another, it will not arrive at the opinion in due time. It is written in the Rules that the President of the Senate could also decide to reduce the deadline for the opinion from fifteen to five days - nothing is said about it - and the measure passes without the opinion, which should instead be mandatory. This puts the Budget Committee under the slap of the Government, which is not good, because the balance between Government and Parliament must be maintained. This forecast should therefore be expunged; at the very least it should be said that the 15 days available should start from the last amendment approved by the Commission on the substance. First, Senator Malan said - and it is right - that we will give less work to the Budget Commission, having it examined only the amendments adopted by the Committees on the substance and I agree. However, if the budget Commission has fifteen days to give its opinion and the substantive Commission works for ten days, there are only a few days left to deliver its opinion: at least then the fifteen days must start from the last amendment passed to the budget Commission, but the rule is not built in this way. The same article finally introduced the obligation for the Government to provide within five days the technical report on the quantification of the financial costs incurred by the amendments. However, if it is possible for the President of the Senate to intervene to reduce the time limit for the opinion, if it is set below five days, we would not even have the technical report. This should therefore be taken into account. Certainly, greater protection must be given, not to prerogatives, but to the balance between the Government and Parliament. Then there are some reported changes concerning corrections to the request for verification of the quorum. The new Rules stipulate that a President may request a quorum check, provided that the President is with at least the seven Senators who make up the Group; it is written that only the Presidents of Groups of equal numbers can request it. This means that only groups with seven Members can ask for it. The formula should be 'at least equal numbers', otherwise a group with eight or nine Members cannot make this request. I think it's a matter of form that needs to be settled. We have also asked for action on government appointments. The Government makes appointments for the various bodies participating in the State. We have to say here that Parliament has to help these people, that it has to know who is going to play a role and that it has to set up its own auditions, in accordance with Article 33. I think it's appropriate. Just as it is appropriate for the Senate to give answers to the citizens. We are here on behalf of the citizens; we are the people here in Parliament. And it is right that, when citizens submit petitions, they are analyzed by Parliament, otherwise they remain dead letters as in the past. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to include in the Rules of Procedure the obligation to begin, within 60 days, the examination of petitions which come to Parliament. The possibility of submitting petitions electronically could also facilitate the work of citizens (this amendment has also been reported) Finally, I would like to talk about one last question: gender language. It is true that equality between men and women does not only pass through gender language, but gender language does not cost. And yet here I personally had to fight a lot with the offices to start speeches by addressing myself to senators and senators. I think it is appropriate to intervene, because the Italian language conceives it; it is not like the English language, which prefers the neutral form. These are not changes in the Italian language, but correct application of the Italian language, and I believe that Parliament should take action in this respect. It makes me smile a little, honestly, the fact that many people can consider gender language as something that is - forgive me - cacophonic to hear. The evolution of the language has allowed to arrive to changes type from "family" to "family" with the "gl." That was a modification of the Italian language; instead the gender declination has always been there. Now hearing about "lawyer" is not a problem; for me it is "the President" of the Senate and not "the President." The Italian language allows it, it's not a problem. I believe that we must also take action in this respect; it is not cost-effective, but it is appropriate to do so. Finally, we have said that this regulation must be corrected. However, it has also been modified by removing something, because it has never been used and therefore to be eliminated. I think it is a mistake, because if it has not been used so far, it could still be used in the future. We must not create something new, because it is already there. I am referring to the possibility for senators to table amendments in this House with the signature of five senators. It has never been used, but it can still be done. I don't see any reason to delete a rule that's there and that tomorrow, in variation of those that are the layouts and numbers, could be useful. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u18	Follow-up of the examination of the document to another sitting. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.35 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u19	The next item is the immediate questioning under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development, the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the Minister for Culture will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Presutto has the right to explain the question 3-03456 on RAI's participation in RAI Way for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, RAI Way is the joint-stock company of the RAI Group operating in the field of network services infrastructure for broadcasters, telecommunications operators, private companies and public administrations, and has the network for broadcasting the RAI radio and television signal with the task of managing and maintaining it. RAI Way SpA's share ownership consists of 64.97 per cent of shares held by RAI SpA; Decree-Law No 66 of 2014, which includes urgent measures for the competitiveness and social justice of RAI SpA, in article 21, paragraph 3, established that 'for the purposes of efficiency, rationalization and industrial reorganization in the context of the participations held by RAI SpA, the Company can proceed to the sale on the market, in transparent and non-discriminatory ways, of shares of RAI Way, ensuring the continuity of the service provided by RAI SpA. On March 19, 2022, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 17 February 2022, which reduced RAI SpA's participation in RAI Way SpA, was published in the Official Journal. It provides, among the premises (which form an integral and substantial part of it), that the President of the Council of Ministers, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Development, has considered it appropriate to favour the aforementioned development plans of RAI SpA and RAI Way SpA through a further opening to the market of the latter, to be pursued in particular through operations with industrial content, thus allowing RAI SpA to decrease its participation in the capital of RAI Way SpA in the context of maintaining control over a strategic infrastructure. The measure has provoked reactions both from the trade unions, who have expressed doubts about the many uncertainties of an operation that seemed at least hasty and that risks depriving RAI of a strategic asset of the public service, as well as between the various political forces and within the Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. In particular, the operation has integrated what has appeared from the outset as an unacceptable institutional rudeness, insofar as the competent and vigilant parliamentary institutions have not been involved except in the phase immediately following the decision, without in fact having the opportunity to express a real direction. It is asked to know what is the state of progress of the process of reducing the participation of RAI SpA in RAI Way SpA and what guarantees the Minister in address considers to be able to provide in order to safeguard the strategic assets connected to the control of the network infrastructures of the public service radio and television. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u21	Mr President, as you know, RAI Way is the joint stock company of the Rai Group, listed on the Milan Stock Exchange, which owns the network for broadcasting the RAI's radio and television signal and which is responsible for managing and maintaining it. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 February 2022, by which RAI was authorised to reduce its share in the capital of RAI Way SpA, was recently adopted on a proposal by Mise and MEF, up to the limit of 30% of the capital. Already on 15 March 2022, I spoke on this subject before the Parliamentary Committee on the General Address and Surveillance of Radio Services. During the hearing, I made clear what the Government's wish was on the decree authorising RAI to reduce its participation in the subsidiary RAI Way to 30% of the capital, which sees the Minister of Economics and Finance as shareholder and holder of RAI shares as the main actor at government level. I have described here, to which I refer for due consideration, what the industrial scenario was. Above all, I have made the commitment of the Government, then punctually respected with the publication of the act of address on the guidelines for the next contract of service, to allocate the activities own of the service to eventual resources deriving from extraordinary operations realized from the RAI, including those of the eventual cession of the quotas of RAI Way. This is something that I also mentioned this morning at a further hearing at the Supervisory Committee. Therefore, I repeat that every resource that should be obtained will have to be reinvested by RAI in order to have direct and concrete reflections on the quality of the public service. In industrial terms, I repeat that the State must not give up the entire stake in RAI Way, but must remain a shareholder with a threshold of not less than 30% which, as such, is strategic, possibly involving deposits and loans in the Cassa operation, which could acquire a share of participation. In this context, RAI has chosen its advisor to follow the path of further enhancement of RAI Way, which provides for the possible reduction of participation in the company. As soon as the study on possible industrial options is completed it will be possible for the administrations involved (i.e. the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development) to carry out further assessments of their own competence on an operation that - it is reiterated - will have to be industrial and foresee the integral investment of resources in public service activities. In conclusion, it is hoped a management synergy and therefore a reduction of costs to the benefit of the RAI, but still maintaining the control of the infrastructure considered strategic for the Country, to guarantee the pluralism of information and culture, as well as the third-party and independence of the Network. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Presutto has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Giorgetti for his timely reply. As the Minister will have intuition, the attention to the strategic assets of the Country is of fundamental importance for Italy also in the immediate. Of course, in addition to the part concerning RAI data transmission, there are also other projects in place at this time, such as the single network; the political focus is therefore on the control of assets that represent in a perspective of development elements of fundamental importance in a perspective critical phase that is affecting us. The Minister has made it very clear what the revenue that can come from this operation is; the prayer that I address to you on behalf of the Group to which I belong is to pay attention to the protection of the infrastructure, so that it can remain in the hands of a national body, so that there can be no dispersal of value on certain assets, such as that of communication, which will certainly make the difference in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u23	Senator Garavini has the right to explain question 3-03459 on measures to support consumers in relation to increases in energy costs for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to express to Mr Giorgetti all our concern about the constant and disproportionate increase in energy prices, given that within a couple of years gas and oil costs have more than fivefold and are in serious danger of jeopardising recovery. Because of the rise in prices, more and more companies are in danger of losing competitiveness and market share, to the point of fearing repercussions for their own survival. In great suffering are also the families that, according to estimates of Federconsumers, due to energy increases, must be borne on average up to 264 euros of additional costs per year per family. We know that Italy has acted in a timely manner to deal with the dear bills; President Draghi was the first President of the Council to submit the issue of energy to the European Council and to the G7 and to propose concrete solutions, some of which have been adopted, only that the problem unfortunately remains, indeed worsens, and risks literally putting families and businesses on their knees. The ordinary citizen is aware of this every day: it is enough that he goes to refuel. I myself went by several petrol stations this morning before coming to the Senate and I could see how the price of petrol splashed today even at 2.30 euros per litre and that of gas even higher. They are increases of more than a third of the price in just four months and this against salaries that have remained unchanged, indeed they have become lighter because of the generalized increase of the cost of living. The economic and productive fabric is also in serious suffering: many companies see their profit margins evaporate because of the explosion of costs and not only companies with strong energy consumption, even those of the hotel sector or of the agricultural sector, already in crisis due to the problem of drought. With this urgent question, Minister, we want to put to your attention and the Government the question of energy price increases, because despite the measures put in place so far, the situation continues to be worrying and the development of events at international level is likely to make the situation even worse, as the quantities of gas and oil available to Europe and Italy are still reduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u25	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u26	Mr President, Senator Garavini, two separate demands are put forward in this act: to promote a European instrument to help Member States reduce the burden of energy bills and to take steps to stop speculation on fuel prices, and also to propose a further cut in excise duties. As far as the Ministry of Economic Development (Mise) is concerned, I point out that the topic has been addressed several times at government level, as evidenced by recent decree-laws, in which provisions have been introduced such as the social bonus for the weakest subjects and the measures in support of the enterprises, that have seen a direct involvement of the Mise, that has strongly wanted them and that continues to work to implement them, in order to assure to the entrepreneurial realities the effective sustainability of the costs and the competitiveness at international level. I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate my intention to ensure and remedy the introduction of de minimis in relation to the recognition of corporate tax credit. It is precisely from this perspective that the provision of specific measures at European level aimed at guaranteeing individual States the financial provision for compensatory measures is certainly a desirable choice and should be stimulated in this respect. To date, a common framework has been adopted on the specific subject in the field of state aid by way of derogation, of which the Government has already made extensive use of for the measures taken, but the problem of funding put back to the individual States remains, with consequent disparities due to the different situations of their budgets. I stress that, because of the need to modulate the possible interventions also on the basis of the needs of keeping public accounts, the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be able to assess the feasibility of a further reduction of excise duties on fuels, which however represents only one of the possible measures to compensate for the rise in fuel costs, on which Mise has long activated a particular monitoring and control through the action of the Guarantor for the surveillance of prices, whose structures and powers have been recently implemented by Decree-Law No 21 of 2022, using the support of the Finance Guard. I have already made it clear that the figures so far have shown that the increase in petrol and gas oil prices is mainly due to the increase in the international price of the refined product and, consequently, to the refining margin, while there is no significant change in the fuel distribution margin, which leads to an increase in prices to an extent that is absolutely prevalent in the international market situation and in the restrictive measures relating to imports of oil from Russia. In particular, after a month of June in which the price at the petrol and diesel pump had increased by almost twenty cents of euro per litre compared to the previous month, in the last week there was a decrease, albeit very slight, of the prices at the pump, caused precisely by a return of the refining margins. From the fuel price observatory system data, the average price at the petrol and diesel pump on 4 July is EUR 2.04 per litre and EUR 2,002 per litre respectively. The relevance of the rise in prices to the above-mentioned causes largely justifies the requests for specific measures at European level, both in relation to the issue of supplies on the international markets of the relevant purchase price and in relation to specific measures of financial support to individual States, while the ongoing monitoring of price developments at national level by Mise through the Price Supervisor is functional in avoiding speculative practices whose conflict and repression continue to be a priority objective. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u27	Senator Garavini has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr Giorgetti, we are aware of the work done by the Government, but we also know that with current prices Italy risks having a further increase in the national energy bill estimated at between 6 and 7 billion per month, a figure to shake its wrists, destined to have a heavy impact on the pockets of citizens. For this reason, we ask that the government's action should continue and not diminish, at national level, through the reduction of excise duties on energy costs - and we are pleased that you evaluate the hypothesis - and at international level, so that Italy insists on the adoption of a maximum ceiling on the price of gas, oil and emission trading schemes (ETS) certificates. In the markets for the exchange of energy-intensive securities there are still alarming speculative phenomena by operators often purely financial, not related to the sector. We therefore believe that access to energy markets should be reserved only to physical traders, in an attempt to avoid the creation of derivatives and other purely speculative financial products, which are otherwise of considerable concern. We must also insist that joint purchases of energy sources be made by Europe in order to be able to negotiate more advantageous prices. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to envisage the establishment of a financial instrument similar to the Next generation EU because, as the recovery fund has been achieved in response to the effects of the pandemic, it is also necessary now to equip States with a similar instrument that puts them in a position to cope in a manner that is supportive of the difficulties of households and businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u29	Senator Misiani has the right to explain question 3-03361 on the compensation fund for property damaged by pollution from the former Ilva plant in Taranto, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u30	Mr President, about a year ago, thanks to the adoption of an amendment tabled by the Member of the Ubaldo Pagano Democratic Party, a fund was incorporated and established in Decree-Law No 73 of 25 May 2021, with a budget of 5 million for 2021 and 2.5 million for 2022, to recognise compensation for the damage suffered by buildings resulting from prolonged exposure to pollution of the Ilva Group's establishment in the city of Taranto. The amendment - which became article 77, paragraph 2 -bis, of the decree-law - specifies the criteria of organization of the compensation, the maximum limits and whatever else, entrusting to a decree of the Ministry of Economic Development, in agreement with the MEF, the definition of the conditions and modalities for the submission of the request for access to the fund and for the liquidation of the compensation and giving a term, then, of sixty days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion for the adoption of the decree implementing. A year has passed, of the implementing decree we have not had trace; therefore we ask Minister Giorgetti what is the point of the situation for the definition and adoption of the implementing decree cited in premise, and why this delay for a quantitatively limited act has been accumulated - we speak of 5 million for a year and 2,5 million for the following year - but very significant, very important for a community, like the city of Taranto and in particular the Tamburi district, that many damages have suffered because of the proximity to the plant of the former Ilva. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u31	Senator Misiani, as he recalled, Article 77 of Decree-Law No 73 of 2001, so-called support- bis, provided for the establishment, through a parliamentary amendment, of a forecast by the Ministry of the economic development of a fund of 5 million euros for 2021 and 2,5 million for 2022 to compensate the owners of properties exposed to pollution of the former Ilva plants in Taranto, in favour of which compensation has been arranged for damages pursuant to a final judgment. The purpose of this compensation is to compensate for the increased costs associated with the maintenance of the buildings for the reduction of the possibilities of enjoyment and for the depreciation suffered by them due to the polluting emissions from the iron and steel plants of the Ilva group. Following the approval of the norm, as foretold by non-governmental origin, a series of criticalities have emerged related not already to the purposes of the provision, in itself absolutely deserving, but to the demarcation of the audience of the recipients and the implementing mechanism, as well as to the circumstance that this type of benefit does not fall by type and object among those ordinarily in the competence of the Mise, with impossibility therefore to use tried schemes. In-depth technical interlocutions were therefore necessary in order to establish a coherent selective framework, capable of combining the beneficiaries of the rule, identified by law in those who have obtained a final judgment on damages, with the limitation of resources and with the reduced period of time, which could exclude a number of subjects only because the judgment in favour of them is not final for mere reasons of length of proceedings. Moreover, the complexity of the identification of parameters suitable to quantify the compensation for which the law provides only the maximum limit, the need to allocate resources among the beneficiaries also because of the number of requests and to define the factual assumptions for which the Ministry is required to verify the investigations, first of all the value of the property as basis and necessity of calculation, have required an additional analysis also with the other Departments concerned. Following this assessment of activities, the Ministry of Economic Development has completed the preparation of the draft decree that has been forwarded to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the checks concerning the financial aspects and for the concert that is previewed from the norm. As far as competence is concerned, I can already say that the criteria for simplifying and speeding up the management and submission of applications have been preferred, reducing as much as possible the bureaucratic requirements and identifying in fixed parameters and rapid verification those elements such as the value of the property and the calculation of the compensation parameter that the law has referred to the ministerial decree. The wish is therefore, for the full and rapid sharing by the MEF of the aforementioned scheme, that once it has acquired the relevant concert, it can be forwarded to the control bodies and then published. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Misiani to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Giorgetti for his reply, which we take note of and which shows that we are perhaps at the last act of an affair which, despite all the difficulties that the Minister has mentioned, has continued for too long. We hope that the concert of the Ministry of the Economy will arrive quickly, as well as the last institutionally planned steps, in order to realize a compensation for which the resources have been allocated. A year has passed, families, starting with those who have had a final judgment of compensation in their favor, are waiting for that refund. Let us hope that we can quickly come to the definition of what Parliament approved a year ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u33	Senator Malan has the right to explain the question 3-03454 on the rest of the motorway dealerships for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u34	Mr President, in order to meet the Italian companies that have been very much in serious difficulty for the Covid emergency, for the highly restrictive measures, sometimes of total closure, established by the Government, the government, the latter and Parliament have approved several measures called refreshments. Synthetically, the conditions for having refreshments were: a decrease in turnover of at least 33 percent, otherwise there was nothing; a maximum refreshment limit of 10 percent of the turnover to be refreshed if the company had more than 4 million turnover, below this threshold you could reach up to 20 percent, but in any case the amount could not exceed 150,000 euros. Well, these measures have proved to be largely insufficient, tens of thousands of companies have failed or closed down, because when you lose 100% of the receipts and many expenses remain and the state only refreshes 10%, it is clear that you are forced to close and sometimes you do not close after the bankruptcy just to avoid troubleing creditors and employees and at least not to affect your personal assets. Many companies, on the other hand, have completely failed. At the same time, an official of the Ministry of Transport, on his own initiative - but I hope the Minister is aware of things that concern billions of euros - writes to the motorway dealers, that they were not directly affected, although certainly indirectly so, because there were fewer people circulating on the streets, but the highways were not closed. The monopoly regime continued and while restaurants and bars had to close down, the so-called grills continued to operate and for the highways it was agreed with the dealers a refreshment of 100 percent even without reaching 33 percent reduction in turnover and without maximum limits. That is absolutely unacceptable. This money is paid with the umpteenth increase in motorway tolls that will also have to pay the companies that, still in a thousand difficulties, manage to get ahead, including the owners of the companies that have had to close. It is a clear injustice, an unjustifiable thing that is added to another element: only at Autostrade for Italy will be recognized a billion of compensation, 452 million are already established in a document that I monster Minister, because I see that shakes the head, and at the same time these same benefits will affect all the motorway dealers, who also have always cashed everything even when they cashed, as in all previous years, much more than the economic and financial plan approved also by the Government previewed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u35	The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to recall in general that the concessional motorway network is operated by public and private operators on the basis of specific conventional acts. The tariff levels applied on the concession highway network are defined in accordance with the conventional provisions and the tariff variations are made effective through the adoption of specific interministerial decrees by the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the Minister of Economy and Finance and not already through mere measures adopted by the ministerial leaders. According to the forecasts referred to in Article 16 of Decree-Law No 109 of 2018, the so-called Genoa Decree, the definition of tariff adjustments is the responsibility of the Transport Regulatory Authority (ART), which introduced a new tariff system based on the principle of price cap, which ensures a tariff level related to the cost of the service. From 2019 onwards, no tariff increase has been applied on the motorway network in the light of the adoption of the new ART tariff system. As regards the economic measures aimed at mitigating the effects of the health emergency from Covid-19, it is represented that they are determined in strict adherence to the methodology defined and communicated by the ART by note of 15 July 2021 and applicable to all concessionary companies. This methodology, when providing only partial refreshment, refers to the actual economic prejudices and therefore takes into account not only the lower revenues of the period, but also the lower costs incurred. As regards the amount of EUR 542 million, reported in the third additional act to the Convention, signed on 21 March 2022 and approved by interministerial decree No 72 of 23 March 2022, registered by the Court of Auditors on 29 March 2022, it is evident that this amount does not constitute any credit of that company as it is fully exceeded by the new calculation methodology defined by the ART. In fact, as specified in the financial economic plan (Annex E, sub-Annex 1), the economic effects produced during the entire emergency period by Covid-19 will be quantified by the concessionaire having regard to the entire emergency period and on the basis of the methodology defined by the ART and assessed naturally by the latter with regard to the correct application of that methodology. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Malan to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u37	Minister, I have seen everything over the years to defend the interests of motorway dealers at the expense of citizens and not just those who travel on motorways, because we all pay the costs of motorway tolls. In fact, anyone who buys something knows that those goods will almost always be passed through a highway. Well, I have seen everything so far, but the turns you have expressed in this House really go beyond any limit. You mentioned Annex E, but look at me as well: in it it is written 542 million at the Aspi, Motorways for Italy, for the only months from March to June 2020 and you said that the refund is only partial. He said a very partial truth, in the sense that in fact - his goodness - the Ministry decided that if they cashed 100 less, but they also spent 10 less, the refund will not be 100 but will be 90. In this sense, reimbursement is only partial. But then I ask you, Minister, what is the point of the ristori decree, which you also voted for, because you are also in the Council of Ministers and not just in meetings with motorway dealers; what is the point of setting limits for others and then exceeding these limits for those who are in huge advantage, having profits that only in the traffic of cocaine are achieved and are in monopoly situations? This is indeed a very serious injustice. Thousands of companies have failed and the profits of international investors are being financed, because Aspi now has a foreign majority and the Deposit and Loan Fund is in the minority. This is absolutely unjustified and shameful. I will give all the acts to the Court of Auditors and ask that the executive, who has been there for twenty-five years against the anti-corruption law, be dismissed, because it clearly acts not according to the dictates of the defence of public interests, but to defend other interests. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u38	Senator Vono has the right to explain the question 3-03457 on investments in water infrastructure, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u39	Minister, I would like to thank you and, through you, thank the entire Government for having resolved the declaration of the state of emergency until 31 December 2022, in relation to the current water deficit situation in the territories of northern Italy. At the same time I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that many other regions of the South Centre need the same attention for the same serious situation due to the drought period, which unfortunately persists. It is true that with the Decree-Law infrastructure, Decree No 68, currently under examination by the Commission public works in the Senate, Article 2 provides for interventions to simplify procedures for the approval of projects for the construction, control and maintenance of large dams. Its Ministry, the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility (MIMS), provides for interventions of more than 12.3 billion investments on water infrastructure, with resources available for 4.6 billion, which also use the funds of the PNRR, the NOP infrastructure and the Fund for Development and Cohesion, as well as a further 7-8 million of the National Water Security Infrastructure Plan. There would therefore be a shortage of around 7 billion to complete the plans, operational programmes and interventions in water infrastructure, as provided for in the Annex infrastructure to the DEF. In addition, the strengthening of these water infrastructures would help mitigate the negative impacts of the lack of water in agriculture, with benefits for this sector and for all other connected ones, but also for the final consumers of agricultural products. Having said this, a complete plan of interventions must be carried out, including the dredging of the lakes and hydro-electric river barriers that are found underground, the transformation of the disused quarries into reservoirs of accumulation, the transformation of the irrigation systems (scrolling, rain and drip), the reduction of the losses of the beehive on the main derivative streams, the contrast of the salt wedge of the Po basin. In this context, I ask you whether your Dicastery intends to support the definition, through the announced decree-law drought, of a comprehensive plan of urgent interventions and regulatory changes to speed up the process of those infrastructures already planned, and to exceed the limits to the spending capacity of ordinary funds by the implementing bodies; a plan that should be accompanied by the request to the Commission of the European Union for a change of the legislation of the Next generation EU to allow the financing with the PNRR of all water infrastructures in order to solve in a structural way the criticality of the Italian network. I ask you what is the orientation of the Government regarding the construction of two hundred new invaders throughout the national territory, according to the plan prepared by the National Association of consortia of management and protection of the territories and irrigation waters, which has an estimated cost of 3.5 billion euros. There is one last topic on which we want to know its orientation, relating to an institutional development contract on the subject of water resource involving the territories concerned to speed up the procedures and have the funds available. Even through this mechanism, more than EUR 1 billion could be available in procedures similar to those of the PNRR, already prepared by Minister Carfagna's Ministry of the South. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u40	Senator Vono, as you mentioned, in the last eighteen months the government has taken unprecedented steps to make the water resource management system more robust and efficient, investing considerable resources from the PNRR and national funds, and making important reforms to solve the problem of water scarcity in a structural way, taking into account the effects on the water system of the climate crisis. With regard to the management of water resources and related infrastructure, the current legal framework provides for the intervention and involvement of various ministries and bodies. The Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility (MIMS) is responsible for the financing of primary water infrastructure and interventions aimed at reducing losses; the supervision of the safety and control operations of the dealers of large dams and derivation works; the evaluation and approval of projects of large dams and works of derivation and adduction, the planning and programming of interventions on primary water infrastructure. On the other hand, the Ministry of the ecological transaction is responsible for environmental regulation and energy policy; the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry policies are responsible for the planning of irrigation infrastructure needs, the ARERA for economic regulation and finally - but no less important - the Regions, as grantors, are responsible for the management of the water service, to which are added 7 district authorities of the river basins. So, it's an objectively very complex situation. The initiatives taken by our Ministry over the last eighteen months - so well before the current crisis - which you have mentioned in part, concern the simplification of legislation and the improvement of governance for the rapid realization of investments in water infrastructure. This is one of the commitments of the PNRR implemented by Decree-Law No 121 of 10 September 2021. In this context, the National Water Resources Plan has been drawn up, which is absent from the legal system until this reform. This explains much of the situation we are in. The decree laying down the principles for the definition of the Plan was prepared by the MIMS and is currently signed by the Concerting Ministries. The breakdown of the primary investments within our competence is expected to be around 4.7 billion; the increase to over 2 billion in the amount of funding allocated to the implementation of the aforementioned National Plan and the use of the resources of the Fund design priority works also for the financing of projects related to water infrastructure. Evidence, then, that the new National Plan pursues the objective of ensuring a more complete planning of the interventions, putting together all the various components, including the so-called Laghetti Plan. I would also like to point out that the actions financed by the PNRR and the Complementary Plan already benefit from accelerated procedures that could be usefully extended to other types of interventions and that further simplifications and specific accompanying measures are being considered in favour of the granting entities and the implementing entities that often do not have the capacity, from the point of view of human resources, to make the plans. Finally, I would like to point out that 169 projects for collective irrigation infrastructure have been financed for more than EUR 1.2 billion, plus an additional EUR 440 million provided for by the last budget law. For what concerns, Senator Vono, its reference to the possible signing of the institutional development contract, is imminent the establishment of a special technical table, of which the MIMS will be part, aimed precisely at the definition of the investment plan of more than one billion euros relative to the entire water cycle, from the adduction and distribution of the water resource, to the purification of the waste water and the reuse of the same. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Vono to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u41	Minister, thank you for your reply, of which we can feel partly satisfied by the clarification of new investments. However, on the basis of the indications that you yourself have given, I would like to stress the need - and there seems to be this willingness - to update and implement the maintenance plan of the same water infrastructure in a timely manner, speeding up the procedures for assessing the impact of possible excavations and using the legislation of greater procedural expedition already approved by the Government. This legislation, without prejudice to environmental protection, allows a quota of the time needed for the rapid implementation of such interventions. Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I should like to express my condolences to the victims of the Marmolada tragedy and their families. Such a strong and serious environmental disaster requires us to note that climate change can no longer be ignored and that we must work together to make better and more appropriate use of resources, by making bolder choices. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u42	The Presidency, on behalf of the House, renews its feeling of condolence for the victims affected by such a serious disaster. Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-03430 on the photographic rights of a publication on the archaeological site of Pompeii, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u43	Minister, on 3 May, the director of the Pompeii Archaeological Park invited "Sciences and Letters," a historic publishing house specializing in the scientific dissemination of humanities, to exhibit a copy of the authorization to use 12 images placed in support of the pamphlet "Pompei." The disaster (2014-2020 A.D.) is published a couple of months earlier. In fact, the manager claimed that, pursuant to Articles 107 and 108 of Legislative Decree No. 42 of 2004, the entity managing the reproduction rights should be asked in advance to decide whether and at what price to allow the publication of the photographs. In fact, Article 108 of the Code of Cultural Heritage establishes the free use of images of public goods for purposes of study, research, free expression of thought and promotion of knowledge of the cultural heritage: all conditions fully fulfilled by "Pompei." The disaster (2014-2020 A.D.) is in progress. Nevertheless, the bump and response between the director of the Archaeological Park and the Science and Letters continues. That of the super conductor Zuchtriegel, the same one that you defended in this Chamber last year from heavy disputes about the restoration of the Hellenistic-Roman theatre of Velia, confirmed then by ANAC and the investigations of the Carabinieri of the TPC Core on behalf of the prosecutors of Vallo della Lucania and Potenza, rather than a super retaliation, seems a disrespect, moreover badly orchestrated against those who have revealed the secret of Pulcinella of a Pompeii reduced by her and by Professor Osanna to mere time discovered. I allude to the authors Helga Di Giuseppe and Marco Di Branco, both archaeologists. As for the identity of the architects of such gangherate revenge, it suffices to say that the documented pamphlet, which without any means defines Pompeii's management in the period 2014-2020 as a scientific, ethical and cultural catastrophe caused by the dissent politics of Dario Franceschini and his court of miracles, which pales that of 79 A.D., reconstructs with punctuality the lightningy Pompeian career of Massimo Osanna who, then called to Rome by her, freed to Zuchtriegel the chair of general manager of Pompeii. I would ask you, Minister, with this question - my 188th question to your attention, against only 19 answers - to clarify whether you and Osanna were aware of the initiative against Science and Letters and who it is and to what extent the alleged external expert was paid that would have convinced Zuchtriegel to demand unnecessary authorization from the publisher and payment of EUR 619.8 of unpaid rights. I would ask you, again, to promote an inspection investigation to ascertain whether the initiative of the director of Pompeii, causing a serious image damage to the so-called Ministry of Culture, did not have the prior consent or even the input of the entire chain of command of the MIC. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u44	Mr President, with regard to the questions asked by the interrogators, we have asked the offices to reconstruct the whole matter. It appears that, with regard to the request for payment of fees relating to the reproduction of cultural objects, the offices considered that there was no evidence of any eminently retortive and intimidating nature - as has been pointed out - by the Director, who carried out the activity in accordance with the legislation in force. With regard to the finding that Article 108 of the Code of Cultural Heritage justifies the exemption from the payment of fees due to the reproduction of cultural goods, it has been pointed out that the provision cited above provides for such exemption only where reproductions are used for non-profit purposes. In the present case, contrary, as also represented by the same interrogators, it appears that the volume has been marketed and this circumstance justifies the request for payment of fees related to reproduction. With regard to the mysterious external expert called to carry out an evaluation on the case submitted, the offices reported that the opinion, requested precisely to ensure a third and impartial judgment and to ensure a timely application of the legislation of the field, was made free of charge and the expert involved is the director of the German Archaeological Institute of Rome, Professor Daly. Finally, it is precise that, taking into account the special autonomy granted to the Archaeological Park of Pompeii, it is not required, nor has there been any authorization by the Directorate-General for Museums, much less by the Minister for the activities that the Park is called to undertake in implementation of Article 108 of the Code of Cultural Heritage.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u45	Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u46	Minister, your answer number 19 could not be more disappointing, but not everything is lost. His resignation would be - I quote from social media - that necessary step which could also convince us that there really is hope of redemption for everyone, even for her. It is his responsibility, in fact, for the latter abuse of power by the director of Pompeii, because, instead of removing it, he defended it - I repeat - from serious and well-founded accusations, with presumptuous arguments. And again today he gave this Assembly inconsistent explanations, to justify at any cost, in Zuchtriegel, the ineptitude of all the directors of autonomous museums and to be able to declare to the media that the reform as a whole has worked, that in museums we go not only to see a work of art (i.e. to learn and to grow), but also to live an experience and spend a day; as from the aesthetist, Minister, as on a cruise or in Gardaland; the ticket now costs almost the same. There are forty-four stages where the sorcerer apprentices of his neoliberal policies exercise the arbitrariness that she has granted them. They know well that, if he admits a mistake - and they do it all the time: think of the scandalous management of the Palace of Caserta or the MAN, of the museums of Capodimonte, Matera, Taranto - he would also accept it to himself, being all his trusted appointments those of the international selections, as he likes to define them; his or Massimo Osanna, however chosen by her. Everywhere, but in particular in Pompeii, you have imposed the idea that making the market of public cultural heritage is valorization. Thus, the writing of the competition for the new leaders, last Tuesday, asked the candidate how to organize a national and international event and how to find the resources from the private: an unprecedented shame, a humiliating trace for those who study years as a technician of protection. But the profile you are looking for is that of the head of the family, or rather of the guito, and everywhere you have mixed technical and political roles. It is a scandal also his consultant imposed as expert in the technical-scientific committee for fine arts and voted then president. Go away, Minister, and hope that oblivion will fall on his name and his... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u47	Senator Alessandrini has the right to explain the question 3-03458 on the management of the ITsART platform, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u48	Mrs. Minister Franceschini, during the lockdown, with closed theatres and cinemas and without being able to participate in concerts or shows, the idea of establishing a digital platform that would allow all Italian artists and museums to distribute content streaming for a fee seemed interesting. With regret, however, we have to note that the management recorded heavy losses, almost 7,5 million euros, in fact reducing its liquidity, since the company had taken off with approximately 16 million euros effective, of which approximately 6,5 million euros paid by Cassa deposits and loans and 10 million euros from the Ministry of Culture, with the decree throwing again. In its first year of life ITsART, with 1,400 content titles offered, has recorded only 141,000 users; but an even smaller number, once entered the platform, bought something. One of the causes of this flop is to be seen mainly in the lack of advertising: this platform does not know anyone, Minister. Moreover the analysts of the field advance other hypotheses on this economic failure: a collection of titles not attractive, but above all prices totally out of market (7 euros for the virtual tour of a museum, when the ticket to visit it in person costs 10; documentaries to 5 euros; films that are available in streaming free everywhere, also on Raiplay, while on ITsART they are paid). I therefore ask you, after the change of the third CEO in less than a year, what is ITsART's industrial strategy, who will have to continue to finance this platform or if instead it is not the case to stop the operation, which has proved economically unsustainable, more rightly in view of the exceptionally negative economic situation, so as not to justify such an expenditure of resources of the Italian taxpayers. Finally, Minister, since the intention is to disseminate content and products made by the great Italian cultural institutions, why not, instead of ITsART, we call it an Italian name? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u49	The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u50	As the questioner recalled, ITsART started on the basis not of an administrative choice of the undersigned or the Ministry, but of a rule of law approved by Parliament, just starting from the experience of the pandemic, when spontaneously most of the theatrical and musical institutions, not being able to carry out their activities in the closed rooms, moved on the net, with a good return of public and success, filling that void. The idea of having a platform to integrate the offer of live entertainment, offering the Italian public and, over time, also the international public the opportunity to access online cultural content of the country. I continue to be convinced that this space is and is very substantial, because the success of Italian culture in the world is such that an online offer of all production, of shows in particular, but also of museums and other online activities, could - in my opinion - interest a very strong potential audience. On the basis of that standard and in compliance with it, the industrial management of the operation and the choice of the private partner, as permitted by the law, were entrusted to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. Since then, as it should be, politics has been called outside. In fact, at the same time, we cannot expect politics to remain out of management and industrial choices and then, when things work more or less according to our wishes, it must come back. That's what happened. The Ministry did not participate in the industrial choice, it did not participate in the choice of partner, it did not participate in the industrial strategies, except by giving the address that Parliament has indicated. This morning, in anticipation of the answer to this question, I met the managing director of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, who confirmed to me that the Cassa considers there is a very strong industrial space and that some corrections must be introduced, in particular through the collaboration with other institutions (the RAI, several times urged by Parliament); focusing more on the subscriptions than on the sale of the single show; through the widening of the company and above all through an activity of promotion and consolidation in order to give a more innovative image, stronger and more structured of the operation. In addition, I understand that politically this is the case, but one year, for an industrial operation starting from scratch, is not enough time to make an assessment. The losses in the first year are naturalized to a start up that starts. It will take time, and Parliament, rightly, on the basis of a rule of its own, will be able to give an assessment, but when time allows it to be written fully and not a little hastyly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Alessandrini has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u51	Minister, I am not satisfied with your reply and I explain why. It is the duty of politics to intervene when the money of the Italians is spent, which should be invested, in a moment of crisis like this one, to give answers. Good morning can be seen from the morning. Definitely this platform started with an intent, but it started late, almost at the end of the pandemic and certainly did not prove to be up to the Italian sector of culture, which is a world excellence. There have been and have emerged - as you said before - of the naiveties - let us call them so - management. Of course the offer wasn't competitive and didn't even include an agreement with RaiPlay on the cost of the films. We are seeing what the Italian situation is: there will be some restrictions in the autumn, with the cinemas that continue to close and that are forced to fire their employees, with artists and underpaid workers. I find this unacceptable, because the serious thing is that millions of euros of Italian taxpayers have been wasted unnecessarily. We will continue to watch, hoping there will be a reversal of the march. As it has been managed so far, I would ask you to consider closing the platform and using the funds to give answers and act as an economic flywheel for the cultural and tourism sectors, because we know that they often have little money at their disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u52	Senator De Lucia has the right to explain the question 3-03455 on the shortage of staff in the central and peripheral offices of the Ministry of Culture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u53	Minister, I would like to say that on 4 July 2022 a demonstration took place, right in front of the headquarters of the Ministry of Culture as well as in several Italian squares, to protest against the situation of chronic undersizing in which its Dicastery is placed because of a serious shortage of staff (according to the latest estimates, we are talking about 10,567 employees compared to a theoretical endowment of about 19,000 units). I still remember that most of the places of Italian culture suffer the same lack of staff, as evidenced also the letter opened to her addressed by the Archaeological and Art Museum of the Maremma of Grosseto, in which we denounce once again the problem of the persistent lack of staff and the need to intervene quickly on the topic of recruitment, penalty the obligatory closure. Outsourcing of employment relationships and the use of service contracts such as trustees is now widespread throughout the territory, resulting in the recognition of increasingly declining wages. At the same time, there is a growing surreptitious use of volunteering to fill staff gaps. The media learn that these practices would already be in place in important museum institutions, such as the Egyptian Museum of Turin, the National Museum of the 21st Century Arts (MAXXI) in Rome and many others, including the civic museums of Trieste that have been in turmoil since last April. In addition, the delegation law on entertainment operators is in the final phase of approval, which has among its aims also to define a welfare system adapted to the professional figures in the specific sector, taking into account their different peculiarities. It should also be considered that Article 9 of our Constitutional Charter requires the present and future commitment of all the institutions of the Republic to the protection of cultural heritage, also in order to allow its usability by citizens and that another fundamental principle, the one relating to work, referred to in Article 4 of the Constitution, then renewed in the forecasts referred to in Articles 36 and 37, recognizes the right to remuneration proportionate to the quality and quantity of work done and working conditions in safety. It should therefore be considered that its intervention is urgent and that, on the basis of the aforementioned delegated law, it would be consistent to adapt, where necessary, also the welfare system of workers of culture. We therefore ask you to know (me and all my colleagues in the 7th Senate Commission) what concrete measures you intend to take in terms of organization, employment and investment, in order to finally equip the central and peripheral offices, including libraries and archives, with the right organic endowment and what initiatives, including regulatory ones, you intend to promote to stop the distortions caused by an abuse of volunteering and the externalisations that are leading to a downward race of wages and protection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u54	Mr President, the questioners raise a serious issue, the lack of staff, which comes from a number of elements, such as the advanced average age of the employees of the Ministry - and not just what I am dealing with - and the 100 quota, the consequences of which have led to an early exit of many people. We have a number of procedures in place that aim to fill these gaps, which I would like to quote briefly. From 2017 to 2022 more than 1,500 staff units have been set up; in particular since March 2022, following a competitive procedure, they have been included in the roles of the Ministry 289 administrative officials assigned to the central and peripheral offices; the selective tests aimed at the recruitment of 334 administrative assistant units and 100 IT assistant units are currently being carried out; for the performance of the reception and supervision activities in the museums, the Ministry has called for a recruitment procedure of 500 staff units and has already undertaken the recruitment of 250 selected units and the procedures for the classification of the remaining staff units are being completed. In addition, the public competition for the recruitment of further 1,052 units of permanent care and supervision staff is currently being concluded. In the process of adopting the three-year plan of staff needs, the Ministry has initiated procedures for recruiting 520 staff units, including 250 technicians, architects, engineers, paleontologists, restorers, librarians and archaeologists, and 270 state archivists. A competition is being held at the National School of Administration (SNA) for 20 administrative managers and the first course-competition is being held by the National School of Cultural Heritage Administration for 50 managers with technical-specialistic professionalism. The Ministry is starting the recruitment of 12 administrative managers, again from the next course-competition; 12 staff units at the mission unit for the implementation of the PNRR are already in service, such as the collaborations authorized by the law for the implementation of the PNRR. I know perfectly well that's not enough. I also believe that in general public administration - it is difficult to proceed for individual ministries - fast recruitment procedures are necessary in accordance with constitutional rules, which allow, however, to bring new young energies and genuine professionalism into a very large number. This would make it much easier to implement the objectives of the PNRR, with a young and digitised staff and with the energies of those who enter the public administration, rather than those of those who are about to leave. On welfare, as the questioner well knows, is coming to completion - next week, I hope - the approval of the law delegates to the House in the text approved to the Senate, which contains innovative measures - finally! - on the theme of show welfare. I think it would be very useful for the Government and Parliament together to understand and reason on how to extend those measures also to other sectors of culture that need more protection from the welfare point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Airola has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u55	Mr. Minister, it is clear that this issue is extremely wide-ranging and therefore requires an appropriate plan, with planning. In making a proposal, we raise two issues that have not touched on, but which are fundamental: firstly, a circular should be sent to all institutions dependent on the Ministry (whether museums, archaeological sites or cultural sites) in order to adapt the salaries of the outsourced staff. The externalizations are increasingly widespread and certainly do not encourage young people to undertake certain careers, because of pay between four and five euros per hour and even, in some places, from the obligation to buy also the uniform (the employees act as museum staff or assistance). This could be a formal, but substantial, act to make a change. Secondly, there is the aspect of the excessive use of volunteering: we respect very much the generosity of the volunteer, but it cannot replace the professional figures - even for its own safety - by reducing perhaps even the skills. This is another limit that stops a young man who wants to embark on a career in the cultural sector, causing damage to the whole economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u56	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u59	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only last 25 June Oslo was the scene of a vile and bloody attack, by means of a gunshot, which saw the death of two people and the injury of twenty-one others. The authorities called it a terrorist attack: it targeted the LGBT community in Oslo and the Norwegian city. So much was bloody and frightened that attack, that the pride, which should have been held two days later, was cancelled, being no longer considered safe its conduct by the authorities. Nevertheless, many people marched right on the scene of that horrible crime, to testify to their existence and their right to visibility. On July 9, the day after tomorrow, the first pride of Viterbo will be held, which is one of those widespread, in the sense that, contrary to what has been used lately, the pride now takes place in many cities, even in the province, and on the 9th it will be Viterbo. Now, someone - a social media user - has well thought of suggesting that they take an M4 with them on that occasion. I had to look at what it was on Wikipedia: it's an assault rifle, capable of killing, with a flash of bullets, as many people as possible. On social media came this chilling threat, under a post that announced precisely the pride of Viterbo. In light of what happened only a few days ago in Oslo, this threat naturally takes on its own considerable danger. I must thank the Forces of Order who, on the advice of the Promoter Committee, intervened promptly, identifying and stopping the author of that comment. I ask the newly established Frontini administration to grant patronage to the pride of Viterbo because it is essential that the institutions clearly choose the part to be on. The Movimento 5 Stars will naturally participate in the pride of Viterbo, and I want to emphasize once again how the responsibilities, unfortunately, of such hatred and of its incitement fall also on this Assembly, where the laughter and demonstrations are still echoed in jubilation at the sinking of a law that said a very simple thing, which has been reiterated today in the motivations deposited by the Cassazione: the political criticism is something different from the incitement to hatred [[Applause]] I hope that this is also understood by the well-known Legist senator, the subject of the sentence, who has made the confusion between hate incitement and political criticism its distinctive figure. I therefore invite all the authorities, these present and the local ones, to participate in the pride of Viterbo in order to show their solidarity with the LGBT community still being attacked. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u62	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Madam President, according to the UN climate change refers to the long-term variations in temperatures and weather patterns which, since the 19th century, have been caused by human activities as a major factor attributable to the burning of fossils, coal, gas and oil. The scientific community blames human activity for the climate crisis due to the increase in greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere, whose concentration has reached record levels: carbon dioxide plus 147 percent, methane plus 259, nitrous oxide plus 123, compared to pre-industrial levels. The CO2 in the atmosphere is currently estimated on average in 413 parts per million: a concentration that has not been recorded for at least six hundred and fifty thousand years. Pollution alters air, water or soil in such a way that it can make them harmful to people and nature. Among the different types of pollutants, chemicals released into the environment cause serious imbalances in the ecosystem, often irreversible damage and negative consequences for the health of living beings: plants, animals, men and women included. The Belgian multinational Solvay, operating in Italy since 1912, produces one million tons per year of carbonate and baking soda in its plant in Rosignano, whose production process consists in the use of limestone extracted from the quarries of San Carlo, in the withdrawal of more than 10 million cubic meters of water per year from the river Cecina, in the extraction of salt for 1,6 million tons per year from the sodiera of Volterra, Montecatini, Val di Cecina and Pomarance and in the discharge on the coast and in the sea of more than 250,000 tons per year of solids suspended on the shore and then in the Tyrrhenian Sea, with formation of the white beach: a real landfill for hazardous waste coming from the chemical spills of the multinational. On 7 August 2015, the Minister of the Environment issued the integrated authorisation for pollution prevention and reduction. On 20 January 2022, five years before the deadline, a new authorisation was issued by the Minister of the ecological transition to Solvay, which makes changes to the permits compared to the previous one. In the new authorization - valid until 2034 - the problems of the activity highlighted in the old one have been removed or modified. Several interventions that were present in the previous have been removed. Anomala appointed her as Minister of the ecological transition of Cingolani, the same that eleven days earlier had made a trade agreement with Solvay. Madam President, there are many polluted sites; there is even an important contamination, put on the index, together with the solvay plant in Rosignano, by the UN special rapporteur on the impact of toxic substances on human rights, Marcos Orellana. I urge the answers to the questions, especially regarding the new authorisation of 20 January 2022, issued by the Minister, which can confirm the safety and full compliance of Solvay's operations, which in fact has been able to discharge more than 13 million tons of suspended solids, 400 tons of mercury in the Mediterranean Sea for more than a hundred years.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-450.ana.u64	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 16.11 a.m.)
