ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 747-2262-2474-2478-2480-2538-B, already approved in first resolution by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative constitutional bill of Senators Iannone and Calandrini; Biti; Agussori; Garruti and others; Gallon and others; approved, without amendment, in first resolution, by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. As the government representative is absent, I suspend the meeting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.50 a.m.) Let's resume our work. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u5	Mr President, representative of the Government, we are at the second reading of the constitutional reform which introduces the right to sport in the Constitution, precisely with an additional paragraph to Article 33. As you know, this is an examination which does not include the vote on amendments, but only a dry vote, with the general debate and explanations of vote. I would just like to remind you of two important facts: firstly, this amendment confirms the importance of sport as a factor of psychophysical and social well-being and as a factor of civil importance and secondly, around the reform, a very important consensus has been achieved between the political forces, which has led us to put in place a brief parliamentary process and to have significant numbers of approval in the two passages that have taken place so far. In the Senate vote of 22 March, 213 votes were cast in the Chamber of Deputies on 14 June, 365 against only two votes against and two abstentions. This too seems to me to be a significant fact, for which I wish to thank all those who have made it possible. Precisely on the matter of the times, I am obliged to inform the House, in fairness - as I did yesterday in the Commission - that today is 22 June, that we voted in first resolution in the Senate on 22 March, that the Constitution provides for the second resolution to take place at an interval of not less than three months and our Rules of Procedure says "after three months have elapsed." It seems to me that we can interpret our Rules of Procedure in a constitutionally oriented manner, in the light of what the Charter has, and therefore today we are voting on this very important reform, in the second resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u8	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification. An interpretation was given by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, precisely for the discrasia with the Rules of the Senate. I would also like to point out that, in the first resolution, we voted on the measure not exactly at the same time in the morning and therefore I believe that it is absolutely necessary for the Presidency to have an authentic interpretation. We are in fact preparing for a constitutional change and I do not think there can be any uncertainty like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u9	Senator De Petris, if I have to think carefully about the interval of not less than three months, today is three months. I would therefore ask the rapporteur whether they have made any further details on the meaning of the three-month period and the three-month period.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u10	Mr President, the assessment made in the Commission is what I have just reported: the three months, not less.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u13	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to remind you that a conference of group leaders took place a few days ago and it was unanimously decided what the timetable for this morning's work should be. I therefore turn to the Presidency, to ask for explanations on this matter, because we voted unanimously on the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u14	Senator Sbrollini, unfortunately, the decisions of the Conference of Leaders, even when taken unanimously, can do nothing with respect to the deadlines laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that we proceed with the general discussion and the related process. In the meantime, let's do a verification and an in-depth analysis of that "not inferior" and "pari" and, of course, before the vote, we will make a decision on this. She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today sport enters the constitution. In Article 33 a final paragraph will be added, which reads as follows: The Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. By accepting international legislation, the value of sport becomes an absolute, inviolable and no longer discretionary value. Although there are few words, they represent an epochal change. In Parliament we are all called upon to contribute by our vote and to enrich the Constitution by taking a step forward in the direction of full social inclusion, which is the foundation of the Constitutional Charter itself. Sport is a piece of primary importance in our culture and our national identity, a piece of the economy of our country. Upon my entry into this Senate I presented two draft laws, one of which, the one relating to sport in the primary school, was transposed into the last budget law. I am very happy, precisely because sport represents a psychophysical and human enrichment. Sport is an instrument of socialization, sharing, proper lifestyle and interpersonal relationships. Sport is recognized as an irreplaceable means for the prevention of many diseases and dysfunctions related to sedentaryness. Education and sport, a combination that needs synergy: today more than ever a strong alliance between sports and educational institutions is fundamental, in order to activate a positive contamination of the universal and timeless value of sport, because the structuring of society requires a cultural and social pact that guarantees in all learning environments, skills and values such as to transfer them into their personal and professional life. Sport is the third educational agency, after the family and school. At a time when the emerging phase that traditional educational agencies are experiencing is being pointed out by several parties, sports practice cannot be for the benefit of a few, but it must be protected, because the aggregational moments that it manages to express often become a real still of salvation for many young people, without distinction of sex, without distinction between skillful and skilled differently. It is necessary to disseminate the benefits of sport and to facilitate and support the virtuous subjects who practice it. It should be borne in mind, as a direct consequence of changing life habits and as noted by the World Health Organisation, that one in four adults does not follow recommended levels of physical activity and that more than 80% of adolescents are insufficiently active, a situation certainly aggravated by lockdown. The amendment of our Constitution is certainly suitable to pursue this goal and to protect sport at both competitive and amateur level. Sport must be for everyone and this opportunity must be given to everyone. At a historic moment where the images of war are imprinted in each of us, talking about sport could also make us remember that sport is peace, that the Olympic Games in ancient Greece represented a moment of truce. We hope that the adoption of this legislative amendment will be a wish for the end of the war. I hope that every school and country has adequate gyms, swimming pools and facilities for everyone. I would like to end with a praise to my co-regional Benny Pilate, gold medal at the World Cup, frog style. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u17	Mr President, in fact, with regard to what we said at the time of the first passage of the measure in the Senate, I would like to express my satisfaction with the Presidency and all the parliamentary groups for the prompt timing of the measure under consideration precisely at the end of the three months. This indicates that there is obviously a strong awareness in all political forces that this amendment to the Constitution, with the recognition of sporting activity in all its forms, can give the sporting world the dignity it deserves. In our view, the dictation is clear, but of course we are sure that the Presidency will be able to clear up precisely on the issue of not less than three months' time. In any case, it seems to us a highly qualified moment in this Parliament to give the possibility to the constitutional change under consideration to know its light. That of sport is a world that represents the best story - in our opinion - of our nation because - as we have had the opportunity to reiterate also with the undersecretary Vezzali on the occasion of a demonstration held at the CONI - has given our homeland a lustre for which we must be grateful. We must also be aware of the fact that sports practice has a social reverberation of extreme positivity in all its aspects, because sport represents for all Italian citizens of every age group, especially for our young people, a positive model that transmits values that today there is an infinite need. Sport is also the best tool for social inclusion, erases differences, promotes the culture of merit and sacrifice, breaks down differences and barriers and represents a metaphor of life in which everyone starts from the same starting point, but then the best must go and go further. We have always felt that sport should be recognised in the Constitution. It is a historical fact that goes beyond this parliamentary term. I would like to remind you once again that the first draft constitutional amendment that provided for this recognition was by the leader of Alleanza Nazionale, the late Giulio Maceratini, in 1996. We are not interested in placing a flag, but in the political program of Brothers of Italy our leader Giorgia Meloni wanted expressly to include this point as a qualification of our political proposal on sport. Therefore, as early as August 2018, a few months after the beginning of the current legislature, I presented draft law n. 747. We are delighted that there is this determination on the part of the whole of Parliament. We are very happy with the interlocutions that have been made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the definition that has been found. Our draft law provided for a link to Article 32 of the Constitution, because we believed that health protection was the main issue. But we are also very satisfied with the work that has been done and I would like to thank the Undersecretary Vezzali for the work he has done. I am convinced and hope - there are all the prerequisites - that we can all achieve together in the current legislature this great goal that renders justice to a world that with its turnover of passion represents Italy's commitment, sacrifice and merit. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u18	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u19	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to debate and - hopefully - to approve, in the context of the second resolution, this draft Constitutional Reform Act aimed at introducing sport, in all its forms, within our Constitutional Charter. Thanks must certainly be given to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to President Parrini and to all the Commissioners who have again worked on the measure, reaffirming with almost a unanimous vote the will and importance of moving forward with the introduction of sport into the Constitution. We know - and we have said this several times - that it was time to give recognition to sports activity and not only to what we are all used to admiring and for which we rejoice a lot, even in these days, with the many medals that come from swimming and fencing. The words intended to be introduced in Article 33 of the Constitution are important: The Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. We know the sport for the great impact it has on our lives, also in terms of popular aggregation and to celebrate the great events, but also for the undeniable value it has regarding the personal growth of each of us within a social community and education to respect. Sport has perhaps remained - and we hope it continues this way - one of those places where compliance with the rules is primary in order to participate: if you do not respect the rules of the game, you cannot play. And this has an invaluable value for our boys and our girls because it leads us, first of all, to know, in the other and in respect of the other and the rules, the value of the person we have before us. If you want to play and win, you have to respect the other, you have to compete with the rules and, from there, take the lead to improve every day. It is undeniable that there is another very important function for sport, namely integration at all levels. Sport also has this capacity, especially among the youngest, in schools and associations that allow the first contacts with the various disciplines i.e. to cancel those social inequalities that we increasingly, unfortunately, perceive and live in our territories. To all this is added another function that must be considered and that cannot be told, that is, the promotion of correct lifestyles. We know that, through sport and physical activity linked to sport and play (or, in any case, in professionalism, to any kind of activity), an education is also accompanied to the attention of our body and our well-being not only from a physical but also psychological point of view. We have repeatedly talked in this House about the great impact that the last two years of pandemics have had on each of us from a psychological point of view. We all remember, especially in the early days, how much the possibility of going out was invoked, because we know perfectly well that physical activity also involves a psychological well-being that cannot be denied at all. Indeed, precisely because we know that it is fundamental, we wanted to put it within the Constitution, our fundamental Charter. The Constitution is therefore touchable, editable. Our constituent Fathers had foreseen it in precise ways, aimed at ensuring that it was not so agile and simple to change it, but it was possible to adapt it to the times. This morning we are dealing with these rules, so much so that we still do not know - President Parrini and President Calderoli have told us, even urged by Senator De Petris' remarks - if we can vote. This tells us that we are exactly in the wake of what our constituent Fathers wanted for the Constitution: they wanted it to be modifiable and adaptable to the times, but only with ways to guarantee the absolute goodness and importance of what was intended to be introduced. We're here on sports. The sporting enterprises that inspire us are many, from the dawn of time: we remember the wonderful Greek statues of discoboles and athletes, but there are also wonderful stories that concern not only physical enterprises, fundamental to our history, but also situations of social redemption. The Democratic Party has certainly put these issues - the educational value and social value of sport must be the first aspects to remember for sport in the Constitution - and it has as its priority cultural education to respect the other also through sports activity, which is fundamental. Compared to integration, which I have already mentioned, we must remember our Paralympic Committees, which represent a flagship for our competitive sport, teach a lot and testify every day how much those who engage can achieve results truly unimaginable until some time ago. All thanks go to them personally for the fact that they witness with their lives, every day, how much sport is not only beautiful and challenging, but also and above all important in terms of motivation and growth for all of us, personally and for the society in which we engage. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u20	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u21	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur recalled, we are at the third reading of this amendment to the Constitution, which has found its justification not only for the value that sport naturally has for the population, but also in the same values as the Constitutional Charter: in particular that of equality, the fundamental principle of solidarity and that of social inclusion. It has been discussed - I would like to remind you here - in trying to find a text on which all political forces could converge, if this amendment were to fall under Article 33, Article 32, or Article 9 of the Constitution. The choice then fell on Article 33, precisely because it links the fundamental concepts of our Constitutional Charter of Education and Training. This is the meaning that we want to give to the change that we are going to approve today for the second time in the Senate. Sport is certainly important to health, although it has not been included in Article 32 of the Constitution. We are all now aware of the psychophysical well-being that comes from sports activity, linked to a modus vivendi especially of our young people, but also of the people of a certain age, who in the context of their own existence practice any sport. These are the terms that have been precisely identified. In fact, it is also right to remember that since the years Seventy the European Charter of Sport identified sport as an important element for human development and therefore - as I mentioned before - for the psychophysical well-being of people. It is also right to recall the contribution that Forza Italia has made to the elaboration of the modification under consideration; let us first think of the National Sports Day, established during the Berlusconi Governments on the first Sunday of June, and also of the great activity by the Department of Forza Italia with reference to constitutional work. In this respect, I would like to mention Mr Versace and also, of course, the legislative input. As far as our Group is concerned, in fact, in the Senate we started from a prepared text of law, which had as its first signatory Senator Gallone. The message we give today by incorporating this principle into the Constitution is important because then it will have a series of repercussions in the adoption of laws and also in the legislative and administrative activity of the Regions and in the administrative activity of the Municipalities. This is a principle that will be assessed by the Constitutional Court whenever it is considered that a rule cannot be constitutional precisely because it specifically deprives of the reference to sports activity and - I insist - the psychophysical well-being of people. As has rightly been mentioned in previous speeches, we have focused on the aspect of psychophysical well-being because most probably, before the pandemic, many of us took almost for granted the possibility of practicing sports activities. Instead, it is a result of that experience that we have put sport among the principles, or rather institutional values. The inclusion of this principle will have an impact - as it is right that it is and as I mentioned before - also on all aspects of education and school. Finally, I would like to remind you that sport is also an extraordinary vehicle from the point of view of both sociality at every level, as surely the pandemic taught us, and social inclusion. Above all, sport teaches another fundamental thing in the life of each of us: practicing sport means doing a sports activity that can lead you to victory, can lead you to a defeat or a non-victory, but that testifies, however, the value of preparation, competition, confrontation and above all of the sporty confrontation. This is a great principle, which sport communicates to all of us. That is why it is right, in the multiform way in which the amendment has been incorporated, i.e. for all sporting activities, that we should make this amendment to the Constitution, updating it to the times we have gone through. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u22	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this very important measure acts in a simple way on our Constitution, but it adds a fundamental piece, a subject which is always a little neglected by these classrooms, but which is so important for mental and physical well-being. Let's talk about sports. It should be remembered, for those who listen, that the only article in this draft Constitutional law goes to add these words to Article 33 of the Constitution: The Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. [[Applause]] I have always supported him and I have already supported him on several occasions in this House. As a former cyclist, passionate about this complete sport that gives wellness to the body and spirit, today I say: finally! Finally, this step is being taken in the right direction. It is recognizing the value of sport, of all sports that are a real touch for the physical and mental health of citizens. Everyone should practice a sport. Sport is a master of life. In cycling the ascent teaches that, in order to reach the summit, you have to commit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] You have to be stubborn. We must also suffer and thus reach the goal, which is also satisfaction and satisfaction. Then comes the descent. You taste freedom, but only after you have conquered it with the ascent. Those who practice competitive sport know that practice teaches a method: sport becomes discipline, teaches to be part of society. Team sports, practiced since the young age, teach to be an active part of a group of people with a common goal and so-called individual sports teach to belong to a community that, sharing the same passion, also shares the principles. Those who practice sports develop an exceptional physical strength and in any case a lower propensity to illness. In fact, people with health problems often find sports a valuable ally to overcome them, thus making less and less use of pharmaceutical care. Finally, I would like to mention sports in disability. I had the honour of meeting a beautiful girl, who is no longer there today: Sara Stealto, Piedmontese, who had made sport in disability her mission of life. He also met Minister Stefani. Sara had a weak heart, which caused her some problems, but with sport she accompanied the disabled. Bringing the culture of sport into disability had also surpassed his disability. Sport made her a strong person, not a sick person. With his Giro d'Italia solidaritye, about fifty stages with arrival in Turin, he brought this message throughout Italy, bringing so many disabled people closer to sport. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Today Sara is gone, but she would have been happy to see this passage that we are making here in the Senate today. For this reason, with the commitment to continue the valuable work that Sara was doing, today I firmly thank Parliament for this important initiative, which must be a first step in promoting sport at all levels and giving the right importance and dignity to sports practice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u24	Senator De Lucia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u25	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic recognizes the educational, social and promotional value of the psychophysical well-being of sport in all its forms. This is the text that we are inserting in Article 33 of the Constitution; we are a step away from final approval and it is right to analyse in depth the innovation that we are bringing into our community. Inserting a new principle in the Constitution must not be an abstract and only symbolic exercise; each of us must take responsibility for giving concreteness to the modification that we are applying today, possibly and dutylessly in every place of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I would like to focus on the first aspect of the reform: educational value. As some of my previous colleagues have already pointed out, I consider it very important to recognise the educational capacity of introducing sport into our Constitution. The values of sport, those that are learned day after day from within, form structured, loyal people, able to set themselves high goals and pursue them with commitment and determination; all this supporting the processes of development of motor, cognitive, emotional and relational skills, conveying values such as self-respect, others and the environment, equality of opportunity, solidarity, ability to live in a group, helping to know their limits, enhancing their potentialities, building success on physical fatigue; stimulating continuous confrontation with themselves and with others with a critical and constructive spirit. According to Save the Children, one of the largest independent international organisations working to promote and protect the rights of childhood and adolescence, authoritative scholars demonstrate that the skills acquired in sports are effectively transferable also in other cultural contexts, from early childhood. The organization of a competition, the definition of roles, the determination of times, the strategies of play are real intellectual skills that can be transferred in any working context and represent skills that everyone should be able to put into practice when making decisions or preparing an action program. Sport enters into the lives of many citizens already at an extremely tender age, precisely in the years of the formation of the person. Sport teaches the importance of rules and ethics; in this sense sport becomes an instrument of civic education. That is precisely why I hope that, in implementing the constitutional change that we are approving, motor education in schools will become more important, become real psychophysical training for our children. However, we also need a great cultural effort, because unfortunately the mainstream sport also conveys bad examples, diseducational behaviors for young people. In that case, sport, as an educational agency, becomes a bad spectacle that damages society, instilling deviant models. Inserting this paragraph into the Constitution obliges us, therefore, to fight to affirm the true sport everywhere and not its degenerate version. With today's vote of the Senate and then with the next one in the Chamber begins a journey that is part of our fundamental Charter, but that will have to arrive at the smallest gym present in our Italian territory. I close by stealing a sentence from Shimon Peres: In sport you win without killing, in war you kill without winning. So let us try to instill in our children, in future generations only the passion and the idea that sport can help to live well, not only from the physical point of view, but also and above all from the psychic point of view. It is for this reason that this small amendment which we intend to introduce in our Constitutional Charter has a value that goes beyond the few words in Article 33. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u26	The general debate is closed. The Presidency has also deepened the issues raised by Senator De Petris in relation to time limits. Article 138 of the Constitution states, in the first paragraph, that the laws of revision of the Constitution and other constitutional laws shall be adopted by two successive deliberations at an interval not less than three months. Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure states that the second resolution provided for in Article 138 may be adopted only after three months after the adoption of the draft law, in the same text transmitted or subsequently approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In this respect, the following paragraph 2 expressly states that the three months shall be counted in accordance with the common timetable. The regulatory provision is therefore in perfect harmony with the principles on the calculation of the time limits in force in the general order that are explicit in Article 2963 of the Civil Code. This provision stipulates, in particular, that the limitation periods provided for in this Code and in the other laws shall be calculated in accordance with the common timetable. In addition, in accordance with the principle that dies a quo non accountuur, dies ad quem accountuur, the second paragraph specifies that the day on which the initial time of the deadline falls is not calculated and the limitation occurs with the expiry of the last moment of the final day. In particular with regard to the deadlines fixed on a monthly basis, the fourth paragraph of Article 2963 states that "The limitation to months shall occur in the month of expiry and on the day of the expiry corresponding to the day of the initial month" and the last subparagraph shall specify that "If that day is missing in the month of expiry, the deadline shall be completed with the last day of the same month" (see paragraph 4 above). The general nature of this principle is confirmed by the content of Article 155 of the Code of Civil Procedure, Article 14 of the Criminal Code and Article 172 of the Code of Criminal Procedure based on the same principles. The precedents we have found - three of the Council of State and one of the Court of Cassation - go in this direction, as well as the three previous approvals of constitutional reforms were voted in second resolution on the day following the three months. The Presidency will therefore, after giving the floor to the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, if they think they can speak, postpone the explanations of vote and the final vote to the first useful sitting, because it would make no sense for twenty-four hours to see a dream that has seen us all so united and convinced. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u27	Mr President, I agree with what you have just said.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u30	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we take note of your communications which lead us to move on to explanations of vote and vote on the measure at the first next sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u31	I didn't talk about the first next session, but the first useful session. I can be more explicit: there should ever be a sitting tomorrow, if necessary, for other reasons, we could have the vote tomorrow. Otherwise, it will be included on the agenda for Tuesday's sitting. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you. We just wanted that clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u32	Mr President, I agree with what is proposed, namely that explanations of vote can be held at the first useful sitting or next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u33	I therefore refer the following of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00489, tabled by Senator Faith and other senators, on support for the work of the International Criminal Court, with particular reference to cases of women victims of violence during wars. I would ask the Undersecretary Vezzali to stay as representative of the Government also for the conduct of this item on the agenda. I call Senator Faith to explain the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u35	Mr President, I will briefly present this document, which stems from the joint work of all the members of the Senate Human Rights Commission, which I would like to thank for the excellent work that has been done. Basically, the motion has found support and has been signed by all of the Commission's colleagues except one, so it interprets a feeling shared by the entire Senate Human Rights Commission. We all in this House and not only the Italian public, but I would say of the entire international community, have been deeply affected by the deaths, violence and suffering that have occurred in Ukraine as a result of the attack of 24 February. Bucha, Borodyanka, Kramatorsk, Mariupol, Kharkiv: many of us ignored the existence of these cities, which unfortunately have come to the fore in these months of war because they are the scene of terrible atrocities. According to sad accounts by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the civilian deaths of the war in Ukraine are now well over 4,000. This figure is for civilians only. For this reason I recall an indication that Judge Aitala gave us, that we heard at the hearing: in the First World War the relationship between deaths in the civilian and military population was one to ten dead, in the Second World War we reached one to one; in this conflict we went from ten to one, a truly impressive number that makes us understand how the civilian population today in this conflict is terribly exposed. This must lead us to sound reflection because these atrocities cannot remain unpunished and must never happen again. We must not forget the tens of thousands of women and men in uniform who have lost their lives in this conflict. Unfortunately, in this dramatic scenario, horrible acts have also emerged against the civilian population, which are to be recorded as real war crimes and which represent the denial of these intangible principles that govern international law. These are terrible facts that we hoped history had given to the past and instead they have returned to Europe today and we see them with a terrible authenticity. Just to shed light on events of this magnitude and gravity was established the International Criminal Court, a very important reality that has seen our country in the front row in its institution. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court was signed a few hundred meters in line of air from here, in the Capitol, on July 17, 1998. The Court has jurisdiction over genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression. The work carried out by the Commission on human rights in the present historical moment, with a tragic war in progress in Europe, and the International Criminal Court has been about two moments. The first one saw the intervention in the Commission of the judge of the Criminal Court Rosario Aitala, the second one saw the presence of the undersecretary Mr Benedetto Della Vedova. Both these two authoritative voices have made an important contribution, in order to understand concretely what the role and role of the International Criminal Court can be in the current crisis situation and how our country can help to support its work and to acquire elements aimed at making this institution ever more effective and incisive. This motion consists in particular of three profiles, the first of which concerns the need for financial support appropriate to the Court's activities. In this sense, Italy is doing its part well: it is the fifth contributor to the Court's budget and it is timely in the disbursement of funds, which is not of secondary importance, and it is necessary - in this sense the motion is moved - for our country to continue on this path. The resources are necessary, in general, so that the Court can carry out its tasks fully and well and I would like to stress that the direction which Italy has always maintained cannot and must not be linked to this or that investigation of the Court. Resources must enable the International Criminal Court to promote its action where necessary. Another point raised by the motion, which seems crucial to me, is the fact that rape, in the context of war, can be recognized not only as a crime of war and crime against humanity, but also as an act of genocidal nature, highlighting even more clearly its absolute gravity. This is an important point, which does not fully agree with the international community and therefore requires work. I think that Italy has all the cards in order to pursue a stronger approach, in international justice, towards this unbearable contribution of suffering and we continue in this role, according to our international commitments, also by implementing the Agenda "Women, Peace and Security." The third and last important point concerns the role of the committee set up by Minister Cartabia in drawing up a code of international crimes. This is also a task that we must do, in order to ensure that the commitments of the Rome Statute are fully fulfilled. I therefore believe that today we must respond to the three issues mentioned above and, in conclusion, I think there is an opportunity to say, once again, that rights form a common heritage of this House, of the whole country and of the entire international community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u36	I declare the debate open. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u37	Mr President, we have done a long, thorough and very specific work in the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, and for this I would like to thank President Faith and all colleagues and colleagues. It must not only remain in Parliament's proceedings, but must bear fruit as soon as possible, and I am sure that the presence of Mr Sisto will also help in this respect. The motion before us concerns an ancient and, unfortunately, at the same time, tragically topical subject: we are talking about the effects of war on the condition and life of women. Only a few months ago, we had been dismayingly present here in the Senate, and we had talked about it for a long time with President Pinotti, about the dramatic fate of Afghan women, who suddenly, from one day to the next - the reasons we know them: for the guilty choices of the American government, superficial, hasty and dictated by many other reasons - they were again and suddenly under the yoke of the Taliban. After years of slow stabilisation and just as slow recovery of citizenship status, the Afghan girls and women were suddenly closed up, but the right word to use is "recluded" within their homes, submitted to the male authority, with the prohibition of working, going to school and building the future that we Westerners had promised them and that we had helped prepare. Today we are faced with another situation and another tragedy: the Russian invasion of Ukraine confronts us with a humanitarian emergency which, again, is primarily and primarily affecting women. Women forced to flee to protect themselves and their children, raped women subjected to violence of all kinds. Already in his last term this Senate reasoned and voted on a resolution on rape as an act of war. I remember her perfectly; she worked with us with certain experience and ability precisely the President Faithful. The effects of rape are always dramatic and devastating for those who suffer them, but they are even more dramatic if that rape is an act of war, because in this case that specific rape has peculiarities: it is impossible to denounce, it is impossible to cure, it is impossible to have medical support very often and it is almost always impossible to abort. This is why rape as an act of war has a specific peculiarity: to give birth to the son of an enemy, to give birth to a child who is very often rejected for the way in which he was conceived. This very often brings with it the stigma of the families, who unfortunately many times hunt these women. So the women who were pregnant as a result of those violence are unable to stop their pregnancy. Very often these women - we have seen it on the borders of Ukraine - have been misadventure refugees in countries like Poland, which even in that extreme case admits that a pregnancy can be interrupted. Once again we are dismayed at the escalation of violence, at a war that, like any war, effectively suspends the right and rights and, at the same time, exasprates the dynamics of humiliation and subordination already existing in the fact of being a war. This concerns - as I have already said - especially women, but not just women. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it is right to remember that here today, although this is not the direct object of the motion that we are debating. Our focus - on this I will return - is certainly on the specific vulnerability of women and in particular on the sexual and gender violence that war carries too often with it. But war exasprates all vulnerability and hits even harder those already in peacetime suffer discrimination and violence for their identity. The war in Ukraine has shown us this: since the first days of the war not only women, but also all the people belonging to the LGBT+ community have suffered very serious violence. I cannot forget the requests for help that we have received, and about which we have spoken in the Commission about human rights, precisely by the trans-European people, blocked at the border because they are still waiting for documents corresponding to their gender identity: women in fact still considered men and sent back to fight. I cannot forget the huge mobilization of solidarity by people and associations throughout Europe. A drama, this, which has mainly concerned trans women. We should never forget, colleagues and colleagues... [[Brusio]] I hear, President, a total disinterest, an incredible buzz. But that's okay: I'm used to talking about these issues in front of the disinterest of the most. And that's what I want to tell you; it reminds us also the internal chronicle of our country, too often. I'm thinking about what happened dramatically with Professor Cloe Bianco's suicide. I want to say it out loud: Professor Cloe Bianco. [[Applause]] I say this aloud, because someone, an associate of the parties of this Parliament, Mrs Donazzan, even after her death continues to deny that Cloe Bianco had the right to be a woman. However, I shall return to the subject of today's debate. The motion that we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, is an important document, because it seeks to overcome the dismay by the force of reason, by lucidity and by good policy. It does so by entering into a very solid international path, which began with the signing of the Statute of the International Criminal Court in 1998 in Rome, and continued with the UN Security Council Resolution of 2000. This resolution, as well as the 2008 resolution, stigmatizes the use of sexual violence as a tactic of war. I would like to stress three aspects which seem important to me. First of all, the motion focuses on the International Criminal Court and its strengthening as a specific instrument to deal with war crimes, and in particular sexual violence as a war crime. The very existence of the International Criminal Court removes the repression of war crimes from violence and arbitrariness and surrenders them to the reason of the law, with the significant consequence that they become the object of reproach for the entire international community beyond any reasonable doubt. That is why it is essential - and on this, Secretary Sisto, I ask for your commitment and that of Minister Cartabia - that the draft code of international crimes which has been handed over to you in the last few hours may have appropriate regulatory follow-up. One Commission has worked, produced a good text and this must soon be transformed into a standard. It is very important that, with the motion that we will vote and which commits the Government, Italy puts in place all the necessary actions to ensure the Court concrete possibilities of operation also in terms of resources (this is the question). The second point concerns the great attention that the motion devotes to sexual violence as a war crime. From the war of the former Yugoslavia to Rwanda to Ukraine, it is always and still the body of women a territory of war, a war dramatically concrete and painful that in turn is the exasperation of a cultural war. We must not hide that even in times of peace we fight on the bodies of women. In particular, I would like us to reflect on the freedom of women on their bodies, which is the source of a real terror: the choice of freedom, the use of our uterus, our ovaries and our body is a cultural issue that terrifies the patriarchate in all its forms and manifestations. To this horrible image of bodies exploited and made subject to unspeakable violence, the motion we are debating opposes a new vision: the protagonism of women in the construction of peace. That is the true point and we have discussed it for a long time in the Commission, and that is the third aspect that I stress. I conclude by recalling the importance of women's participation in conflict prevention and resolution activities, as mentioned in the motion, in line with Security Council Resolution 1325 of 2000. Even in times and places of war, colleagues and colleagues, we must overthrow the paradigm, transform the image of women, that is not only a victim to be protected but a political subject to be promoted as a protagonist in the construction of paths, alliances and peace. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u38	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u39	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, it is a singular and I would say very fitting coincidence that we are today discussing this issue which is so closely linked to what is happening in Ukraine at the moment. We saw it, the press told us it, we saw it on television and we also heard that the first arrests were made and that they were put to trial, in the same country invaded and abused, some of the Russian soldiers who had actually treated the Ukrainian women as prey and spoil of war. This makes us think about something particularly important. For many years this kind of subordination of women to the power of the winners seemed almost an acquired reality, a dramatic situation that asked nothing more than to take note of what was happening, as if it were a necessity and an integral part of the horror of war. Finally, twenty-five years ago, something happened (and this is a beautiful lesson on the evolution of law, in the sense that law can change when a country's sensitivity and international sensitivity also change). Twenty-five years ago, precisely in Rome, this international court was established and this says a lot about how in recent years, gradually, this has been transposed by States. Italy was obviously one of the first to receive it (not surprisingly, the subscription had taken place right here in Rome). There has therefore been an increasing awareness of the gravity of rape: not a war accident or a tragic accident that occurs systematically, but a profound injury against women and their dignity, which must be stigmatized as an integral part of those war crimes among which we also consider genocide. I was very impressed when the Nobel Peace Prize was audited in the Commission, an extraordinary woman who had been an observer, with a careful listening ability, of all the victims of the genocide in Rwanda and who, precisely within the genocide, had to consider the frequency with which these violence against women and these rapes had occurred, which, as we can easily imagine, affect the woman not only in her singularity, but also in her descendants, that is, with reference to her children. The child who is the result of a violence suffered is in fact dramatically opposed to the maternal sense of the woman who is fought between the ability, despite everything, to accept him as his own son, or to see him as the fruit of violence. This is not an easy matter to solve. There are many writings in this sense and also - fortunately - novels. I am referring to the pedagogy of the narrative that describes this profound suffering that lurks in the heart of a woman who must remember the violence she has suffered and, at the same time, many times she cannot but love this child in which she also sees a memory of pain that is very difficult to forget. This is what makes the wrong at once more pressing and heavy, because it is not a wrong at once; it is not the violence that matures and runs out at that moment. It is a violence that leaves a trace that lasts the whole life of a person and when rape has been repeated throughout a population becomes an integral part of the memory of that people. Today we are here to remember and stigmatize this in every way. We are told that the court needs to be supported. One of the aspects of this instrument of our reflection is the need to support the court so that it can do its job to the full. The fundamental point and the proactive part is how to give space to this dimension which concerns the relationship of women with peace. It is no longer possible today that, at the same time as a war scene, a scenario of reception, protection and protection (in preparation for peace that will have to come) for all women and especially for minors and adolescents who do not even realize what is happening. A system is needed to protect all women of any age, condition and situation. We know this: when there is a war, there is almost always also the crime operation against humanity, paid personally by women. These women, from the first moment, must be offered the place of reception, the place of listening, the place of repair. Knowing that that soldier, that person will be condemned for this; does not console much a woman who has suffered violence, a woman who has been raped, consoles little, because the wound is personal and deep, but it has the value of deterrent that should allow you to no longer consider this operation almost normal, because twenty-five years ago, before this conscience matured and this court was established and these documents were written, which are also very beautiful and important, many people considered it one of the "necessary damages" of the war. We not only do not consider it necessary damage, but we consider it a serious responsibility on the part of all of us to activate this protection action in the country and beyond the country. When what we all know happened in Afghanistan in August last year and this campaign of physical and psychological violence was also launched in Afghanistan (because there are many forms in which women suffer violence), precisely in our extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights we launched the relay for Afghan women. I don't know if everyone knows that since then, every day, a colleague from Chamber and Senate posted what she liked, a tweet or a message, and the relay never stopped, because we wanted to keep up the consciousness and the awareness of not forgetting. Women cannot forget, they must not forget and they must not leave the other women who have suffered this violence alone. This is the purposeful responsibility that, as women of peace, we want to assume: not only the no to war, not only the no to the worst face at this time of war, because it is the one that dumps itself on the most fragile people and the weakest people, not only this use and abuse of the woman's body, but a much higher and much more dignified rediscovery. Women must be protected during the war, not only because they can and must be positive agents of peace, but also because they are too often identified as the weak link. They are not the weak link, they are the humanly stronger denunciation, because they are a denunciation that very often engages the process of the future. They are the children born of that violence, they are the children born of that rape that represent that extraordinary difficulty of survival, but that requires a surplus of attention and hospitality, but also - I would like to say it with the words of Pope Francis - of tenderness. They are those children, those who touch the heart more deeply than all of us, the innocent victims of double violence: that of a father who probably will never know (who knows what he might represent) and that many times to end up in those orphanages that we have seen being present (in Italy we closed them not so many years ago, about twenty years ago) and are welcomed there because doubly rejected. To the reception of these children, to their space as witnesses of a peace that is relaunched beyond violence, we also want to offer at this moment a contribution, which is not only the economic contribution to the court so that it can carry out its role more and more, but is a contribution of positive, personal and profound reparation, made of solidarity, but also made of economic means (for what they serve), so that we can say once and for all not only no to war, but no to violence, no to rape, no to the abuse of women. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u40	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u41	Mr President, I listened to the speeches of the senators and examined the motion tabled. I must say that, before expressing my views, I need to make a few comments which can corroborate the points made in the motion. First of all, I must point out that with regard to point 1 of the motion, namely the need, pointed out with particular attention, to facilitate the adaptation of the Italian law to the rules of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, by working so that the committee currently engaged in the elaboration of a draft code of international crimes can conclude its work, the latter have been concluded. This was in perfect harmony with the times that had been assigned to the committee on 22 March last. The problem is that now this work, which, I repeat, has been available to the Government for a few hours, must be followed up at the regulatory level, analysing in detail the points that have been attributed to the Commission as guidelines to be addressed in the work. I would therefore like to go beyond the content of the motion, not only pointing out the need to verify the fulfilment of the international obligations which have been assumed with the ratification of the Rome Statute, but above all - this is the task which seems to me most important - to proceed with the systematic organization of the matter, taking into account what already exists in our system. It is clear that an ex-novo reform cannot fail to have an anamnestic profile: that is, I must know exactly what is there, see the effect of it and then propose in the reform a kind of joint venture between the existing and the future so that it can be effective and not only innovative. Here we must recall the criterion of fragmentation that very often afflicts the criminal system, which means that innovations, very often spotted by leopards, are not capable of effectively grafting on what is already the patrimony of living law. The third point is no less important. I would remind you that the point one of the motion is in some way ideally integrated, although we are basically faced with the perimeter and then with the specific contents, with the need to write new cases of crime or to effectively reform existing ones. It is not only a question of a cultural reading of the system, but of being technically capable of an intervention on the elements typical of the cases in order to write about new ones or to reform, even here harmoniously, the existing. I believe that from this point of view the Commission has endeavoured to respond in order to offer autonomy, systematicity and in any case an effective completion of the interpretative and regulatory landscape. I will not dwell on the individual passages, referring them to the Assembly only as titles: nature of the crimes, universal jurisdiction, competence and division between ordinary and military jurisdiction, clause of non-politicality, functional and personal immunity, responsibility of the military commander and of the civil superior, claims, prescription, imperishability, corporate liability, genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, aggression. It is, I repeat, only the titles of the arguments developed by the committee. I am therefore in favour of point 1). With regard to point 2, i.e. the Government's commitment to work also in agreement with the Member States of the European Union to provide the International Criminal Court with adequate resources in financial and personnel terms, I would like to say to the House that we have already made an effort because Italy is the fifth contributor to the International Criminal Court's budget; for 2022, the Government has already paid its compulsory contribution of EUR 9.2 million, an increase of 5.4% compared to last year. There is also a commitment to provide under the so-called 2022 Mission Decree additional 500,000 of voluntary contribution to be allocated to the International Criminal Court as a result of the request for extraordinary support made by prosecutor Karim Khan. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation participates in an interministerial coordination action aimed at identifying specialised professional personnel who can respond to the profiles indicated by the prosecutor and be seconded to the International Criminal Court. Therefore, on point 2, the opinion is in favour of this clarification regarding what is already being done by the Government. We believe, in fact, that there is already a positive pre-answer, but, where possible and where necessary, the Government can only commit itself to ensuring that the International Criminal Court receives the right aid. Point 3) commits the Government to consider the possibility of a new voluntary contribution to the Trust Fund for the victims of the International Criminal Court, in support of victims who survived sexual violence in the course of conflicts. It is the heart of the intervention of both Senator Cirinna and Senator Binetti. It should be noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has already allocated a contribution for 2022, as in previous years, of EUR 25,000 in favour of the Trust fund for victims (TFV) of the International Criminal Court, in the framework of humanitarian peace initiatives pursuant to Article 23-b of the DPR No 18 of 1967. The opinion is therefore also in favour of this, with the clarification that a number of measures are already being taken to finance the victims' fund. Point 4) should be divided into two sub-topics. The first concerns the implementation of the Women's Agenda, peace and security. Now, compared to this theme expressed by Senator Cirinna in terms of what women can do for peace, I am convinced that the theme peace has a universal value and that no further specifications are needed. On the theme of peace, the Government is committed to 360 degrees to offer anyone the opportunity to be protagonist in this field and to enhance anyone who sets himself as the main or even secondary interpreter of a path that can lead to peace. The implementation of point 4 therefore envisages acting on two sub-chapters. The first action concerns the implementation of the Agenda for Women, Peace and Security; the second is the recognition of rape as a genocidal act. With regard to the first part, Italian action has emerged internationally in the UN (General Assembly, Security Council, Human Rights Council), the European Union, G7, NATO and OSCE, through various activities such as participation in the network bringing together national focal points for the Agenda for Women, Peace and Security; an informal EU task force; peacekeeper training courses and civilian personnel. From a national point of view, it should be noted that the fourth National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2020-2024 Agenda for Women, Peace and Security was adopted in autumn 2020, to achieve which Parliament has allocated three million euros for the next three years. Also for 2021, what is happening for 2022 has happened: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has issued a notice of publicity for the allocation of one million euros of contributions - I know that the figures are boring but it is necessary to contextualize the motion - for the realization of initiatives for the implementation of the fourth National Action Plan for the implementation of the Agenda for Women, Peace and Security; it is a composite system of interventions, which transposes the individual plans and chapters of the plans to intervene punctually in 2020-2021 as for 2022, with consistency and effective commitment. The second sub-topic of point 4 concerns the recognition of rape as an act of a genocidal nature. The Statute of the International Criminal Court includes rape and any other form of sexual violence in the list of acts which, if they are part of a plan, a political plan, a series of similar crimes and committed on a large scale, constitute war crimes; and of acts which, if committed in the context of an extensive and systematic attack on civilian populations, constitute crimes against humanity. Italy is committed at an international level to maintaining high attention on the subject and to promoting a progressive development of international law, which can also lead to the recognition of rape as an act of a genocidal nature. In the meantime, we support the implementation of what already exists and in particular the strengthening of monitoring mechanisms and the monitoring of compliance with international humanitarian law. I would like to point out that Italy in particular has long been the promoter of a policy of zero tolerance against exploitation, harassment and sexual abuse committed by peacekeepers of UN missions and civil personnel and is one of the major contributors to the United Nations Trust Fund in support of victims of sexual exploitation and abuse. We are also contributors to the UN fund to support the team of experts on the rule of law and violence in conflicts. With these clarifications, Mr President, as you will understand, the opinion can only be in favour of this fourth and final point.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u45	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, with the motion that we are about to approve, we commit the Government to promoting the full adaptation of the Italian legal system to the rules of the International Criminal Court's statute, including in financial and organic terms. We know that the International Criminal Court, established by the Rome Statute, is competent in judging any liability in the most serious violations of international law. However, the commitment that we ask the government today is not only directed to the implementation of the instruments available to the Court, but is aimed at considering one of the worst horrors of wars, rape, as an act of genocidal nature. This is in fact the real novelty of the motion. To date armed conflicts have been reported in at least 39 countries worldwide and, according to the latest United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' Global Trends report, 82.4 million people around the world have been forced to flee persecution and war. In these contexts, women often pay the highest price. According to official data from the High Commissioner, one out of every five refugees or displaced women was victims of sexual violence. During the conflicts women are systematically subjected to violence and sexual abuse and mass rape has been used as a weapon of war and an instrument of terror towards the population. If the effects of rape in any context are devastating and terrible for the victim who suffers them, rape in war contexts is, if possible, even worse. As a result of abuse, the victim may contract sexually transmitted diseases or become pregnant, but in conflict areas it is almost impossible to access adequate medical care or resort to safe abortion. In addition, victims of war rape risk being stigmatized and removed from the family, as well as the fact that very often they do not have the strength and the concrete possibility to bring out the rape immediately. Under the Rome Statute, the International Criminal Court has jurisdiction over genocide in general, war crimes against humanity and crimes of aggression. The Statute expressly mentions rape as a crime which may fall within the categories of crimes against humanity and war crime, together with forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced sterilization or any other form of sexual violence of similar seriousness committed in the context of a widespread or systematic attack directed against a civilian population or in serious violation of the Geneva Convention. In 2000, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1325 Women, Peace and Security, which explicitly mentions the impact of armed conflicts on women, and in June 2008 adopted a resolution defining the use of sexual violence as a war tactic and stated that rape and other forms of sexual violence may represent war crimes, crimes against humanity and even acts prefigure genocide. This in particular is a point on which we are called today to reflect with this motion. Sexual violence is therefore also a frequent practice for the implementation of genocidal policies. This report seems to have been endorsed on several occasions also by international criminal law: I would like to mention, in particular, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. In both cases, in fact, it has been pointed out that the systematic use of rape of women and girls can have the dual purpose of imposing forced pregnancies in order to promote a genuine ethnic substitution, but also to destroy the ethnic group of belonging by sexual abuse, mutilation and suffering. So there is a real causal link between sexual violence and genocidal intent, which is achieved by acts intended to destroy in every way a national, ethnic or religious group. Last, in fact, the dramatic events of Ukraine are in temporal order. According to the data of the Prosecutor General, there are now more than 10,000 war and aggression crimes recorded since the beginning of the conflict and, with regard to rapes, only few women who are victims of violence are psychologically and physically able to testify for such attacks. According to international law research centres, rapes could be much more than the official ones. In the specific case of Ukraine, the European Union has put in place a special protection system which has not yet been applied, which introduces immediate and temporary protection throughout the Union. Italy, too, has been ready from the outset to respond quickly and effectively, both from an institutional point of view and from the point of view of private solidarity. In conclusion, Mr President, by voting in favour of this motion, we want to strengthen the work of the International Criminal Court, so that it can carry on the delicate task for which it was established, but above all, we want to work to ensure that rape can be recognised as an act of a genocidal nature, given the existence of a clear connection between the perpetuation of sexual abuse and the genocidal intent. I thank the entire Extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights, which has made a cross-cutting commitment to drawing up the motion, and for all these reasons I declare my Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u48	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, perhaps I do not share every single word of the motion, but there are borders like this where we have to choose whether to wage a war of words or the battle of principles. That is why I have decided to sign this motion with conviction, on which the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights has worked, giving priority to the battle in favour of certain principles. With this preannunciation I vote in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group and I would like to say that in my speech I will remain adherent to the theme and motion, because this is what we have to discuss today, avoiding to get out of the topic, also using polemics against other people and, since I want to be on the subject, I get there. Today we take on a responsibility that is important because we officially condemn violence and rape in conflicts and we naturally do so by linking ourselves to a perimeter of a very robust and laboriously conquered international authorising character. Obviously we are referring to the role of the International Criminal Court, but also to the Geneva Convention, to the Rome Statute, and then to at least two fundamental and fortunately immortal resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, No 1325 of 2000 and No 1820 of 2008, but I could also mention the following three follow-up resolutions. There is therefore an important and robust perimeter of international law, fortunately, to which we refer. But beyond what is expected, we come to the subject. Let's start with the assumption that rape is a weapon of war. It has been historically and continues to be so in post-modern conflicts. Women, in short, as spoils of war, from the rat of the Sabine to the Moroccans of the Ciociaria, from the rapes in Sudan, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Liberia, Congo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, to the victims of ISIS, to the victims of Boko Haram until today's Ukraine. It is a practice that has been handed down for centuries, a world of violence that has crossed and continues to cross the earth, an infinite and cursed history that goes through time. This is the hidden side of the war and I want to point out that it is also one of the greatest silences in history, it is a black hole that has swallowed thousands of victims. The difference is that today the women's and armed conflicts are not a business of women, but it is a matter definitively included in human security policies, with a strong impact also on international law, on that perimeter to which I referred and to which the motion intends to contribute. Return to the above-mentioned UN resolution, No 1325: Women, peace and security, which is considered, for those who follow these issues, the mother of successive and related resolutions, because it is the first of the United Nations Security Council to deal explicitly with the impact of the war on women but also - I stress this - the important and fundamental role of women in the resolution of conflicts. Women, therefore, are not only victims, but also agents and peacemakers. The strength of Resolution 1325, which is an important document and legal instrument, is its innovative character, because it gives us some basic indications on how to promote a culture that does not discriminate against women, how to take all measures to prevent violence, how to protect women who are victims of violence, how to punish the perpetrators of crimes against women and how to compensate victims of violence. The subsequent resolution, No 1820 of 2008, thus marks a further step, because it comes to linking sexual violence to a war tactic and recognizes the impact that sexual violence has in conflicts, defining rapes and other forms of sexual abuse as a war crime and a crime against humanity, as our motion also reiterates. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] That is the point: it is a crime against humanity. Moreover, there is the recognition of war rape as an instrument of ethnic cleansing and as a plan of genocide, with a strategic and political purpose, as a weapon and as a systematic tactic to destabilize, terrorize, humiliate, force the abandonment of the territory, reduce to obedience and submission and attention: this weapon does not only concern women and children, but can concern men and children reduced to slavery, because there are many forms of violence. For centuries, rape and sexual violence have been considered a byproduct of wars, they called it collateral damage suffered by women, they called it an inevitable effect of conflicts. We must overturn this perspective, this ancient and cursed rite, which has been renewed in modern and asymmetrical conflicts, between non-state, multidimensional actors, in interstate guerrillas, which have made these instruments even more violent and have gone even further to strike the civilian population. It is against this phenomenon that we absolutely must condemn. As Franco-Algerinian scholar Karima Guenivet writes in her memorable book, entitled "Warworms: Sexual violence as a new weapon", "Sexual violence is less and less a consequence of war and more and more a weapon used for the purposes of political terror, the eradication of a group, a plan of genocide and a will for ethnic cleansing." The reality is dramatically this. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this is yesterday's weapon, always and hopefully not tomorrow's weapon, which uses some winners against the losers, who use some invaders against the invaders. It is a form of bullying and has become a strategic weapon. Violence on women and girls, but also on men and children, in short, on the defeated and the invaded, whatever the context, is a horrendous form that must be condemned as an act that violates fundamental human rights and international humanitarian law and as an unqualified act, when it also becomes a strategy of war. This is the node, now inescapable in international matters, of human security: women, peace and security, to restore to this dignity of international human law. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u51	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately violence against women is not a new weapon, but it has always accompanied the war. It has always been used, we could almost say from the Sabine rat in our day, as a powerful instrument of offense and a weapon. I would like to mention here the three guineas of Virginia Woolf, when he rightly claims that the system of war, the military system, is closely linked to the patriarchal system. This is the deep link between a model of society and relations within society itself, the patriarchal system, and war. So violence against women, the weakest and children is unfortunately one of the elements that connote war and militarism. We have always thought, with the end of World War II, that we have somehow put war out of history on our continent, but then we have seen what happened in the former Yugoslavia and in the Balkan war, where violence against women, sexual violence, was used as a terrible instrument and weapon of war. So great work has been done and when, on 31 October 2000, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security, which explains the impact of armed conflicts on women, I believe there has been an international assumption of this awareness, of the UN. I would also like to mention here the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the International Tribunal for Rwanda, which recognised the link between sexual violence, war and genocidal intent. When, on 13 June 2019, the Human Rights Commission did another job, listening to all the victims of sexual violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo, we built another piece internationally. As the motion rightly states, there are currently 17 ongoing investigations by the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. There have been other even more important investigations, such as the very recent procedure to investigate as war crimes and against humanity what is happening at this time in the territory of Ukraine. However, it is clear that the operation and effectiveness of the International Criminal Court must be given even greater impetus, and all this calls for individual States to assume responsibility. It is no coincidence that Prosecutor Khan recently submitted to the States a request for extraordinary support. I hope that this motion, which we will be convinced to vote on, can be a strong signal and can really commit our Government to promoting the adaptation of the Italian law to the norms of the Statute of the International Criminal Court - as the Undersecretary Sixtus has now reminded us - and to work, in agreement with Europe, to give the resources and the necessary instruments to the International Criminal Court, considering also the possibility of a new contribution. They are all absolutely fundamental commitments. I shall conclude with the reference I have begun with. Unfortunately, alas, I believe that one of the most important tools to fight wars and to prevent them from continuing to put humanity is to break down the hierarchical system within societies, the patriarchal system, giving more and more strength to women. War doesn't have women's faces. [[Applause from Senators Errani and Rotolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u54	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by not formally thanking Secretary Sisto (who came out, but I thank him anyway), because he used arguments to implement the Government's positive assessment of the motion in our examination, in my opinion deepening issues and giving importance to the motion itself. I would like to thank the President of the Special Committee on Human Rights and all the colleagues who have spoken. I believe that the choice we make today to vote on this motion is very important (as a Democratic Party we are voting on it with conviction), because it is true that it follows, as Mr Cirinna said, the motion we voted on in the last parliamentary term, but here we take two more important steps. The first step is the identification of the International Criminal Court as the place of culture of the rule of law, where we have all the financial instruments to carry out the investigations and to gather all the necessary elements to proceed. The second step is the fund for victims, which is the other big issue that needs to be addressed. We also give strength and value, once again (and I think it is necessary to implement this political choice more and more), to intervene against sexual violence and group rapes, which actually lead to genocide, considering them one of the most serious crimes against humanity, condemned by jurisprudence and politics, as well as by international conventions. This is a fundamental element, because it puts at the centre the culture that UN resolutions constantly put at the head of the responsibility of the States: to consider what happens to women exactly the reason why women must constantly and everywhere be protagonists of reconstruction and peace-building and therefore be active agents and protagonists of all the next process. The history of wars and conflicts we know that it has always told the terrible truth of sexual violence and rape, transformed into a real weapon of war to humiliate and terrorize communities and peoples. I am a warning of hatred and fear for the present and for the future, with the girls, girls and women exposed to rape which often - it is fair to say in this House - takes on the terrible contours of group crime, carried out before the victim's family and the appalling connotation of mass phenomenon, just as it happened recently in Bucha and unfortunately in many other realities. Girls, girls and women exposed to this violence are therefore in serious danger: the danger of life obviously, but also - I want to emphasize it because it is something that is little described - the risk of a subsequent suicide as we were brought back to audition, because raped and raped also to be reduced to a sort of waste in their communities. This is something that should make us think a lot about the policies not only of cooperation, but also of the value of this motion, which I believe was not by chance signed by all the political forces of majority and opposition. That is why there is a strong need for the commitments that the Government and Parliament must put in this path. That is why we continue to reason and always say loudly that, yes, there are answers in this motion and there are commitments that we ask the Government and that each of us also assumes for our own responsibilities, but that we must never stop remembering, even in the public discourse, that rape on the body of women, girls, girls is exactly a war crime and a proprietary use. [[Applause from the PD Group]] of men who act with a brutal force in this case, as well as violent. In fact, the body of women is considered a field to be destroyed when it is not possessed. Being the parent women, the men who commit these crimes and these rapes also propose to kill religious beliefs and ethnic groups. Hence the behavior that leads to genocide. This is, in my opinion, the new point on which to reason the whole community: we know that this possible definition of rape as a crime against humanity, as well as genocide, is present in the Rome Statute. But this close link with this motion is what we want to say and vote in this House, because this is the new issue. It is not that rapes can also be genocidal: rapes are genocidal, because at the moment when these crimes focus precisely on girls, girls, women, this is the act that is being carried out that you have to be aware of it, because it is the most hateful and terrible crime that can be committed in a war zone, a truly unacceptable instrument. We took a lot of steps and reminded us of this by the Undersecretary, but I think it is no coincidence that, as a Human Rights Commission, we wanted to hear the Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister, Olga Stefanishyna, the Nobel Prize winner Nadia Murad and the judge of the International Criminal Court Rosario Aitala. I would like to thank you - I would like to do so because we very often talk and talk in this House as if we were not also connected with the international community - Fabrizia Giuliani, already a Member of Parliament, who has made a great contribution to this. I quote you because you are also connected to the network of European and American scholars, the Transnational feminist solidarity with Ukrainian feminists, and you tell us that this is a battle that we are currently taking with an important vote here in the Senate, but it is part of a very important international campaign, which was not by chance the Nobel Prize Murad, who lived on itself the meaning of rape against his community, which was also rape aimed at the genocide of his community and his ethnicity. That is why this motion has great value which - I would like to stress this - should also become a constant message when we talk about what violence by men over women is in other areas as well. I believe that this must never be forgotten because it is the same line of culture of domination and violence. The Democratic Party has contributed strongly, together with others, to the construction of this motion and I thank the Conference of the Leaders who, in my opinion, has decided in a politically important way to schedule this motion today so that the House can vote on it. It is no coincidence that yesterday this House voted with an important vote in favour of our government's policies in support of Ukraine against the Russian invasion. Today's motion takes on the other aspect, in my view necessary, of countering the violence that unfortunately continues to exist in Ukraine, but also in other world realities. I think it is equally significant and important that today (all of you have read it and you, Undersecretary Sisto, told us this) the work of the Commission, in order to transpose all the criteria provided for in the Treaty of Rome (i.e. the fact that war crimes carried out by Italian subjects in other places of conflict can also be prosecuted in Italy) have merged into the work of the Minister Cartabia. I believe that today is an important day, which puts Parliament in a position to be consistent with what we often say when we are outraged by photographs of rape and violence taking place in conflicts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u57	PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the previous colleagues - I would like to point out that they are all women, and four to be exact - speaking in favour of women. This is a fact that, unfortunately, reminds us that we still live in a patriarchal world, in which much of the national and international laws have been written by men and, consequently, reflect all male prejudices towards women. Thanks to this evolution, women (not because of women, but as subjects other than men) have been able to make their contribution during all these years. I want to remember, once again, that until the years Eighty the crime of honor was still planned and conceived as normal. Thanks to women and their presence in this Parliament - as shown by the number of measures taken - we have made great progress. Sexual violence has only recently been recognised as a war crime, while until recently it was not even an ordinary crime. Sexual violence must be pursued as crimes against humanity. As you all know, sexual violence is used as a weapon in war and conflict. It is still a scourge in neighbouring Europe. As we know, Ukrainian women today and before them other women have been subjected to violence. We are talking about women who are mothers, daughters, sisters, wives, women who have become soldiers to defend their own land. Once again, therefore, we are in the Senate Chamber today to address the issue of war crimes, particularly those committed to the detriment of women. This time we look at what is happening in the heart of Europe, a few hours' flight from our country. The sexual violence that we have already seen used on a large scale, perpetrated by ISIS terrorists against jihadist women, is used in a conflict to strike even those who, unarmed, do not fight war. It is a parallel war, carried out in order to sow terror and to break the resistance of the opposing front. The Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine and the deliberate acts of brutality committed by Moscow's forces against civilians, women, men, but also children, have brought to the attention the need for punishment of those responsible, civil and military, and acts of war constituting criminal iuris gentium. The police and the Ukrainian judiciary are gathering, together with investigators from other countries, evidence of the crimes committed by the occupiers, but future trials could enjoy greater credibility and authority if they were celebrated before International Courts and not before courts formed by fellow citizens of the victims, who could be accused of partiality and vindictive intent; compatriots of the victims who could, therefore, themselves be judges of these courts. Instead, according to the guidelines contained in the motion that we are about to approve, the intervention of the International Criminal Court could proceed more effectively against crimes of genocide, those against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression. This is in order to respond to the need for justice of victims and their families and to constitute a deterrent that induces political-military leaders to abide by the laws of international law, in particular the four Geneva Conventions, which brought the International Criminal Court to the centre of attention. With the exception of the crime of aggression, the Hague Court has jurisdiction to judge international crimes committed in Ukrainian territory by the forces of the Russian Federation, as in 2014 Ukraine had declared to accept the jurisdiction of the Court, although it was not a member of its founding convention, which is the Rome Statute. With this attribution of expertise, British Attorney Karim Khan stated that his office is looking closely at the situation in the Slavic country. Among the international crimes provided for by the Rome Statute, rape is classified as a form of manifestation of war crimes and crimes against humanity. By its Resolution No 1820 of 2008, the United Nations Security Council established that rape and other forms of sexual violence can also constitute a way of implementing the crime of genocide. In this way, this crime has been associated with genocide by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. The international courts constitute an extreme defence against international war crimes, also because those responsible for such conduct know that they can be called upon to respond personally to crimes committed or planned. Inter gun silent leges, in wartime laws silence, according to the cynicism of the ancients, which meant that this crime was considered almost normal in times of war. Today, however, thanks to this prediction it can be observed and severely punished. Finally, I want to remind you that this kind of crime is not new to the Russian Army. Senator Aimi made a proposal, with the Forza Italia Group, that I invite all colleagues and sign, for the establishment of a day, on 18 May, to celebrate a memory that is important not to forget: the Russian Army became involved in 1945 of other sexual violence, precisely in Central Europe, against German women. The figures are chilling: we talk about women (and girls) from eight to eighty years. These women are part of the 10,000 women who have suffered violence, a violence that fortunately we do not know and that perhaps only recently the images of social media bring us back. These are women who, as I learned with Senator Aimi, were nailed to the doors, raped, disemboweled. For this reason, the Forza Italia Berlusconi Group, President-UDC, supports the motion on the financial strengthening of the International Criminal Court and on the introduction of sexual crimes against women among the genocidal criminal hypotheses. I should like to end by thanking my colleagues and listening to Mr Rufa, the only male representative in this parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u60	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank the previous speaker for her announcement. Unfortunately, the real defeat is the need to vote, as in any institutional room in the world, on a motion with the objectives well explained by the Undersecretary Sisto. Unfortunately, even today, there are at least 59 wars and conflicts with thousands of victims a year. Let us think of the conflict in Afghanistan, Myanmar, Yemen, Ethiopia and Syria, with an impressive number of deaths, displaced persons, prisoners and people suffering from hunger. From February 24, 2022 another of those wars that is understood only after it has manifested itself, realizing how much fear it makes. To date in Ukraine 4,560 deaths and 5,691 wounded, without calculating psychological and physical deaths, consequence of satanic atrocity, for possession of resources, for economic, cultural, religious and demographic possession; possession and supremacy, where treaties, conventions and promises fall in the face of atrocious ends and revenge. The horrors of the battle of Solferino in 1859 prompted Jean Henry Dunant to set up the Red Cross. From 1864 until now numerous conventions of international law have been signed up to the four Geneva Conventions, the Convention for the wounded and sick in the countryside, for the wounded and the sick on the sea, for the treatment of prisoners, for the protection of civilian people in times of war. Two other protocols had to be added to these in 1977: the protection of victims of international and non-international armed conflicts. In 2005, always out of necessity and always in Geneva, a third additional protocol was introduced with the need to adopt a distinctive emblem following the attack on the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. In this simple and quick excursus we understand how history did not teach, did not make us understand how atrocious human wickedness is especially at war. There is never a fair war and there is never a war with a winner because they all lose when the dead or dead living like the victims of rape remain on the ground. These acts, war crimes and crimes against humanity, are the manifestation of animal behavior dictated by hatred and violence and contempt of the enemy. We should stop and think how cruel the minutes, hours and days of such squalid violence are. Those who commit them will never have a justification. Let us ask ourselves what will remain of the body and soul of those women, of those men and of those children raped and raped and forced also to witness such atrocities. "With victory comes the loot" has been a cry of war for centuries. Men interned in concentration camps, severely tortured, and women, especially women, part of this unpleasant spoil. We must then build a society that is able not to forget and not to think that the words of solidarity and compassion are enough: when there is a war we must intervene to end and finish the laments of physical and psychological suffering. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] History must be feared and respected. It is like when I request that the National Day be established, out of respect, in memory of the victims of the war rapes of 1943-1944, better known with a name that, although annoying, is historical and real, that is, the Moroccans. In the face of the rapes of more than 60,000 women, men and children, of an Italian people, the Ciociano people, my people, in front of the offensive titled in France of squares and streets to goumiers, soldiers framed in the corps expditionnaire franais an Italie (CEF) under General Juin's command, we must assert the memory and the claim of apology, without concern whether or not the thought and feeling of oltralpe are impacted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Mr President, I would like to stress that we do not recognise this day, as required by the draft Law 2281 of 2021, which means that we will also speak in this House today by denying and offending history and reality. It is not a challenge or the pride of a people, which is certainly not desired, but the recognition of reality, respect for suffering and memory, an indelible memory, also thanks to the exceptional interpretation of the sublime Sophia Loren in the film "La Ciociara". And it is in schools that the history and consequences of war must be taught. The strength of peace and the cruelty of war must be understood in schools. It is necessary to study history in order not to forget. Today we try to explain to our children the story of the invasion in Ukraine, the evils of a conquering people on a conquered one. Let us make it clear how much suffering and violence on the bodies and life of a people can bring war. The League will vote in favour of the motion, hoping that the Commission responsible for drawing up a draft crime code will not be an instrument of only discussion and participation and hoping that the International Criminal Court will act quickly and above all sharply. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Aimi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u63	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, we are about to vote on a motion within a framework for strengthening the power of the International Criminal Court. We are talking about ethnic rape, a gender weapon and an aberrant action and, consequently, devastating on the victims, which destroys the psyche and the soul and throws them into a depressive mood that often leads them to suicide. It is a frequent practice in wars and is an added pain, inflicted to hurt even more the defeated. Women always pay. On this day, I want to remember a woman, Mamasika, and her precious message: we must never give up and only women can help women who suffer. Masika is the germ image of the woman; it is the one who transforms the ugliness of war; it is the one who assumes the task of repairing the damage of war. He takes care of the victims, of a particular category of victims: women who have suffered ethnic rape. In doing so, Masika has saved thousands of women from depression and self-harm, turning the humiliation of her body, that of her daughters and mother, into a time of ransom. That's how it becomes, Masika, the women's shelter. Well, in Ukraine, we kill and rape: ethnic rape, precisely. Women pay more and more: after being raped, they are killed or killed, because they cannot overcome that trauma. He was denounced by Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, Mayor of Brovary, Ihor Sapozhko, Congresswoman Lesia Vasylenko and Deputy Prime Minister Olha Stefanishyna. The commanders of the Russian army rouse their soldiers to rape the soldiers' wives and the military. How can it be justified that Putin stands up as a champion of moral values against our world, apparently in decline? Therefore, the determination of international crimes is a commitment of civilization, in order to end this atrocity. I recall the twenty-year anniversary of UN Resolution No 1325 of 2000, which established the Agenda for Women, Peace and Security. It is right to remember that Italy has been very active in implementing it. It is a matter of overcoming the reductive vision of women in war countries, who see them only as victims. Instead, they can play an important role, both in order to avoid conflicts, and in order to manage the phases of war and subsequent ones. Seventeen investigations are ongoing by the prosecutor's office of the International Criminal Court and are framed as war crimes against humanity. I would like to mention some of the Government's commitments, which I was pleased to hear from Secretary Sisto. In addition to the implementation of these four points, there is also a commitment to monitor and verify the implementation of international obligations; then there was talk of systematic organisation in terms of effectiveness and efficiency. For my Group this expression by the Government is really important and that is why on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, which has always carried out the requests of the International Criminal Court also at the legislative level, I declare the vote in favour of motion No. 489, which is necessary and urgent. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u64	I call on Senator Faith and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No. 489, tabled by Senator Faith and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] Colleagues, there are fairly optimistic news about the arrival of the maxi amendment, so optimistically, and I hope also realistic, I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.09 p.m. and resumed at 16.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u65	He asked for the intervention of Undersecretary Bini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u66	Mr President, I would ask for a suspension of the House's work for a couple of hours, until 6 p.m., pending the arrival of the major amendment, on which I am told we are still working.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u67	If there are no requests for intervention, then I shall suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.04 a.m. and resumed at 18.03.) I'm asking the government representative, Undersecretary Bini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u68	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I call for a suspension of work until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u69	The Presidency takes note of this request. At 7 pm we will take stock of the situation, to try to understand how to continue the work during the evening and work easily.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u72	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, we have some problems keeping most of our colleagues, engaged in the next rounds and the last rounds, who ask me whether the fact remains that, regardless of the time, we will be able to vote today, as discussed at the Conference of the Leaders, or whether there is the possibility of going to tomorrow (in which case, different choices are made). Can you reassure us about this?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u73	Senator Dess, you have interpreted, perhaps with better words than I do, what I wanted to share with the House. Since the suspension is relatively short, I invite the Government and the representatives of the parliamentary groups to have some discussion in the meantime, in the short term, so that at 7 p.m. we can take stock of how the work will continue, also because we had made a programme, at the Conference of the Leaders, in which you were present, taking into account all the needs, including of course the electoral commitments. I am suspending the sitting again. (The sitting was suspended at 6.05 p.m. and resumed at 7.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u74	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2598. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate and the rapporteur's reply took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Cangini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u75	Mr President, representatives of the government, my fellow senators, I would have liked to return to the merits of this decree-law, because many things still need to be told to the country and clarified perhaps even among our ranks. However, I believe that it is more useful, indeed urgent, to talk about the method that has been followed in the gestation of this conversion of the so-called PNRR Decree 2. There is one thing that has been noted by all colleagues: yesterday in general discussion I believe that there was no intervention that did not mark the dialectic with the Government, telling that the times were tight, that the constraints were tight and that however this branch of Parliament managed to improve significantly the decree, at the cost of a strong dialectic with the Government and with the MEF in a particular way. And it is all true: the decree-law has certainly improved thanks to the serious, responsible and - perhaps in an unprecedented way - incredibly discreet work, because so many things that could come out of the halls where we gathered have not come out, and this is a sign of great seriousness and responsibility, that we all do well to claim. Probably the formula was wrong, in the sense that, even in the light of things that happened today, Parliament's interlocutor was not and is not the Government; Parliament's interlocutor is the technical-administrative structures that support or should support the actions of the Government. It is not a dialectic between the powers of the State that should be in balance, but that traditionally this balance is conquered day after day, and it is not the tail of a phenomenon that we know, the Government that traditionally seeks - most of the times - to occupy the spaces that the Constitution assigns to the legislative power. We have all studied Max Weber, Crozier, Merton and we know that the bureaucratic apparatus and the high bureaucracies represent a power in themselves; we know that most of the time the real power, as Carl Schmitt said, cheers in the antechamber of power and those who govern traffic in the antechamber of power governs real power; we know therefore - because we all have direct experience of it - that often the decision-making power is at the head of the Heads of Cabinet, the legislative leaders, the General Reasoners of the State, the Directors-General and so on, saying more than often we do not think it is at the head of the Council of Ministers as such. In these days we have seen quite unusual things happen: we have seen heads of Cabinet explain the international context in which we were moving; we have seen amendments rain in our texts without anyone telling us about this; we have attended meetings on the school in the absence of the Minister of Education; we have seen the General Accounting of the State giving opinions on amendments that had not passed for our Commissions. The impression, in short, is that the interlocutor of the Parliament is, for example, the General Accounting of the State and that the logic of the General Accounting of the State is not political and that most of the time the decisions which the General Accounting of the State imposes on politics have nothing political and, in many cases, nothing relevant to the functions for which the General Accounting of the State carries out its work. We have closed an agreement between the Ministry of Education and MEF on the basis of which amendments have been drawn up. Those amendments have been voted on by the Budget Committee of this branch of Parliament and we have discovered today that this agreement was worth nothing, because a department of the Ministry of Economy, the General Accounting of the State, decided that they were worth nothing. This objectively creates problems. We know that politics is in crisis and that the system is in crisis; we have a Government of broad understanding and we have the best of the technicians who, thank God, oversee this Government, so the crisis of politics we certainly do not discover today and we do not know how unbalanced today is the relationship, in terms of real decision-making power, between political level and technical-administrative level. However, a minimum of use of the world would wish that those who have real power (and have it indisputably, we do not find it today), that it is not a legitimate power - because what we are talking about is a de facto power, which forces, limits and obliges the legitimate power, which is what comes from a vote of confidence to a government, which in turn follows a democratic path, which is legitimized by a popular vote - should perhaps exercise it with balance, respect, discretion. On the other hand, we have been faced with decisions taken by the empire, which cannot be dealt with, not explained, not justified, with a forced use, in my opinion, of Article 81, behind which anything, even nothing, can be hidden, but which, in fact, represents a limit. It is a huge limit to the democratic exercise of power by the Parliament of the Republic and, I dare say, also to the democratic exercise of power by the Commission, because the thing I have noted in these hours is that there is no dialectical Government-Parliament. Government and Parliament, apart from tones, ways and circumstances, are both enslaved to a technocratic logic which may be useful in some cases, but which has no legitimacy whatsoever. I know I say things that are probably clear to each of you for a long time, but it is also our fault, evidently, because when a power widens and occupies the spaces of another power, the fault is always of those who leave those spaces free, so much to be occupied. I think, however, that we should all learn a lesson from today, and I do not think that we can agree that this should be the case. This is how things have been going for a long, long time, but in my opinion a sign has been overcome. There is a limit that should be respected, so that even constitutional imbalances, at an exceptional stage such as the one we are experiencing, can be vaguely tolerated. [[Applause]] and accepted by those who find themselves in a difficult condition of having to answer their own decisions to the electoral body, even though they know that they have no decision-making power. I claim the work done by Commissions 1a and 7a on the decree-law. Much has been improved, much more could have been improved, but we have not been put in a position to do so. I find the humiliation that has been intended to inflict on each one of us intolerable. [[Applause]] I do not believe that this is of any use to anyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u76	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Inc. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u77	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration, which substantially transposes the amending proposals approved by the Joint Commissions, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u78	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment, pursuant to Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure, and transmits it, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, to the 5th Permanent Commission, which is therefore authorised to convene immediately. At the same time, I would like to say that the Chairman of the Movimento 5 Star Group has indicated that there is no need to suspend the work of the House and the Commission in connection with a meeting of the Group you have chaired. I would ask Mr Pesco to tell us, so that we can organise the continuation of the work, how much time the Commission needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u79	It is difficult to say, but we will do what we can: I think it takes at least two hours, but we can try by 21, even if I do not guarantee, because logically it also depends on the debate that will take place in the Budget Commission, if a debate takes place.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u80	I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) I would like to ask Mr Pesco about the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u81	Mr President, the work of the Budget Committee has not yet been completed. I think the opinion will be ready not before 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u82	Mr Pesco, you know that you said that the opinion would be ready at 4 p.m., by agreeing with the Government with the Commission, then at 6 p.m., then at 7 p.m., then at 9 p.m., and now you were undecided between 9.30 p.m. and 10 p.m., and you ask me to resume at 10 p.m. I would like to make sure that work can be resumed at 10 p.m. or I would prefer to postpone until tomorrow. It is not compulsory to finish this night; the dignity of the Senate is more important and therefore the session is not postponed by half an hour in half an hour. [[Applause.]] Mr President, I think that what is important is the dignity of the citizens for whom we are working. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is not in question, we are all here to work; to work, however, not to wait without doing anything, with our hands in hand. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u85	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, we are now out of line. Last week we had three Commissions practically seized for days and days; now, as you have well retraced, we have been working not for the citizens for a whole afternoon, but waiting for the government's referrals, which is not even present, and for the majority. [[Applause]] It seems to us that as opposition we have been all too responsible and patient. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Then, as you rightly said to President Pesco, if at 10 p.m. we are certain that we are in a position to work and proceed, well, otherwise we cannot think of giving dignity to this House if we do not give dignity to ourselves. I say this to protect all colleagues of majority and opposition. We have also gathered the bitter outpouring of the rapporteur, Senator Cangini, whom I personally greatly appreciated for intellectual honesty. The government and the majority tell us clearly and peremptoryly, since we can no longer accept this behavior, if at 10 p.m. we will be in a position to proceed with the work. That's enough, President Pesco, that's not possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u88	Mr Cangini, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Iannone, for their custom in the Commission and often also for their harmony. Honestly, if you have listened to my reply, there has been and is a problem of relations between the majority, the Government and the Accounting; the delays are due to this and are not at all attributable to the majority of the Government. Therefore, since there has been a rare harmony - I think - between oppositions and the majority, really in defense of Parliament's constitutional function, I would urge you not to break this structure and not to give it cause for controversy, because there really is no reason to argue in this case. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u89	Good. What I'm interested in is whether you confirm me, President Pesco, by 10:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u90	Absolutely not, Mr President, because we have already lost five minutes and so it will be 10:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u91	Look, the Commission can work without you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u92	No, I'm chairing.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u93	So let's pick it up at 10:05. That means we lost her five minutes. This is insolence, can I tell you? [[Comments of Senator Pesco]] I'll take your word for it. The sitting shall be suspended until 10.05 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 21.06 a.m. and resumed at 22.10 a.m.) The Presidency shall assess the acceptable amendment, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Inc. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of bill No 2598 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 30 April 2022, No 36.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u95	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment submitted by the Government. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u96	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the transposition of the following amendments: - in Article 14, paragraph 6-viciester is replaced by the following: "The resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) indicated in the notices in place at the date of entry into force of this provision, adopted pursuant to Article 1 of Law No 338 of 14 November 2000, may be used, through the subsequent notice of the Ministry of University and Research, to be adopted also by way of derogation from the provisions referred to in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Article 1 of Law No 338 of 2000, also for the acquisition by the subjects referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, of Law No 338 of 2000 as well as other public and private subjects, of the availability of beds for university students, through the acquisition of the right of ownership or, in any case, the establishment of a long-term lease relationship, or to finance interventions to adapt the university residences to the standards referred to in the Communication of the European Commission of 11 December 2019 on the European Green Deal, received in the PNRR. To the purchases referred to in this paragraph does not apply the provision referred to in article 12, paragraph 1, of the decree-law 6 July 2011, n. 98.'; - in Article 15-b, paragraph 3 is deleted and paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: (a) EUR 1,000,000 for 2022 by corresponding reduction of the expenditure authorisation referred to in Article 1, paragraph 925, of Law No 234 of 30 December 2021; (b) as regards EUR 121,470 for 2022 by corresponding payment at the entry of the State budget by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers from the resources transferred in 2022 on its autonomous budget pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 925, of Law No 234 of 30 December 2021; (c) as regards  2,242,940 annual from the year 2023 by means of a corresponding reduction of the Fund for the non-differentiable needs referred to in Article 1, paragraph 200, of Law No 190 of 23 December 2014, - in Article 16-a, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 7 of article 23-c of the decree-law 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted with amendments by law 7 August 2012, n. 135, the words: "the Agency of Customs and Monopolies establishes one or more posts of Deputy Director, up to the maximum of three, of which one, also by derogation from the quotas provided for in article 19, paragraph 6, of legislative decree n. 165 of 2001" are replaced by the following: "the Agency of Customs and Monopolies may confer, by virtue of the available assumptions, one or more positions of Deputy Director, up to the maximum of three, of which two also by derogation from the quotas provided for in article 19, paragraph 6, of legislative decree n. 165 of 2001; - to article 17- bis, paragraph 2, letter b), paragraph 961-b, paragraph is deleted the following paragraph: ==References====External links== The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies shall bear the costs of economic treatment, DMV, embankment, barracks and clothing. ==References====External links== The personnel units employed in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be assigned, with entry in office not prior to 1 January 2023, to the headquarters at which they serve on 30 May 2022. The provisions of Article 35, paragraph 5-a, of Legislative Decree no. 165 of 30 March 2001. The assumption takes place, within the limits of the current organic endowment, also in supernumber, reabsorbable with the successive holidays, compared to the places provided for the profile of judicial operator in the organic plan of the individual offices. 3. In order to meet the assumptions resulting from the implementation of paragraph 1, the expenditure of euro 43,189,188 annual from the year 2023 is authorised. 4. In Article 1, paragraph 858, first sentence, of Law No 178, 30 December 2020, the words "for the year 2021" are replaced by the following: "for the year 2022" and the words "11,231" to "123" are replaced by the following: "120" 5. To the expenses deriving from the paragraph 3 equal to euro 43,189,188 annual from the year 2023, the corresponding reduction of the authorisation of expenditure referred to in Article 1, paragraph 860, of the law 30 December 2020, n. 178, is provided; - to the article 30 after the paragraph to paragraph 5, the following is inserted: After paragraph 5, the following shall be added: The higher expenses deriving from the implementation of paragraph 1 (d), n. 4 equal to 20,900 euros for the year 2022 and 41,800 euros from the year 2023, are charged to the budget of the ASI. To the compensation of the effects in terms of debt and needs, pairs to 10,764 euros for the year 2022 and 21,527 euros from the year 2023, is done by means of corresponding reduction of the Fund for the compensation of the financial effects not previewed to legislation in force consequent to the updating of multi-annual contributions, referred to in article 6, paragraph 2, of the decree-law 7 October 2008, n.154, converted, with modifications, from the law 4 December 2008, n. 189. 1, in paragraph 3, last sentence, are inserted after the words: "The training initiatives referred to in this paragraph" means the following: "they take place outside the teaching hours and" and are added, in the end, the following: ", without prejudice to the organizational autonomy of the educational institutions and the provisions of the national collective agreement"; - in article 44, paragraph 1, letter d), paragraph "Art. 2-b', paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: '5. With the decree referred to in Article 2-a, paragraph 4, the maximum costs of enrolment to university and academic courses of initial training are defined, without new or increased burdens on public finance, as well as the carrying out of the final tests leading to the attainment of the teaching qualification with fees charged to the participants.'; - in Article 44 (1) (d-bis), paragraph 2-a, the following period shall be added at the end: "From the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph, no new or increased burden on public finances shall arise.'; - in Article 44, paragraph 1 (h), paragraph "Art. 16-b', in paragraph l, the period: "In any case, participation in the training activities of the pathways taking place outside the teaching time shall be remunerated', is replaced by the following: "The participation in the training activities of the routes takes place outside the teaching hours and is also paid on the Fund for the improvement of the training offer, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 3, of Legislative Decree no. 59.'; - in Article 44, paragraph 1, point (h), paragraph "Art, 16-b," paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: ==References====External links== In order to implement the recognition of the one-off ancillary remuneration element referred to in the previous paragraph, a training incentive fund is established in the estimates of the Ministry of Education, the allocation of which is 40 million euros in 2026, 85 million euros in the year 2027, 160 million euros in the year 2028, 236 million euros in the year 2029, 311 million euros in the year 2030 and 387 million euros from the year 2031. The recognition of the one-off ancillary remuneration element, within the limit of expenditure referred to in this paragraph, shall be addressed to teachers of the role who have obtained a positive individual assessment according to the performance indicators referred to in the preceding paragraph, on the basis of the criteria established in the contractual update pursuant to paragraph 8 and with the objective of recognising this remuneration element in a selective and non-general manner. The one-off allowance shall be paid within the expenditure limit referred to in this subparagraph, with reference to the year of achievement of the positive individual assessment. The costs deriving from the implementation of this paragraph shall be covered, as regards 10 million euros in 2026, 52 million euros in the year 2027, 118 million euros in the year 2028, 184 million euros in the year 2029, 250 million euros in the year 2030 and 316 million euros from the year 2031, by adjusting the staff of the teaching staff's autonomy as a result of demographic developments, taking into account migration flows, carried out from the school year 2026/2027 and up to the school year 2031/2032, as part of the annual cessations with corresponding reduction of the budget appropriations of the relevant chapters relating to the staff ceased, and as regards 30 million euros in 2026, 33 million euros in the year 2027, 42 million euros in the year 2028, 52 million euros in the year 2029, 61 million euros in the year 2030 and 71 million euros from the year 2031 by corresponding reduction of the Fund referred to in Article 1, paragraph 200, of Law 23 December 2014, n. 190. In implementation of the provisions of the previous period, the staff numbers of teaching staff, with the exception of teaching staff, are 669.075 places in the school year 2026/2027, 667.325 places in the school year 2027/2028, 665.575 places in the school year 2028/2029, 663.825 places in the school year 2029/2030, 662.075 places in the school year 2030/2031, 660.325 places in the school year 2031/2032. In relation to the adjustment referred to in the previous period, the Regional School Offices shall inform each school institution of the size of the staff of the autonomy. The definition of the annual quota of posts not forming part of the staff of the autonomy remains exclusively aimed at adapting to the situations in fact, according to the parameters of the current legislation, and no increases can be foreseen to compensate for the adjustment of posts in application of the provision referred to in this paragraph. The Ministry of Education, through the Regional School Offices, carries out, by school institution, an annual monitoring of the places not forming part of the autonomy staff also in order to evaluate the respect of the prohibition of increase of such posts in compensation of the reduction of the places in application of the provision referred to in this paragraph and transmits the results to the Ministry of Economy - Department of the General Accounting of the State, for the adoption of the interministerial decree of investigation referred to in the ninth period. For any extraordinary need to compensate for the reduction of the posts of the autonomous staff, the school manager shall submit a reasoned request to the Regional School Office, which shall notify the Ministry of Education for the purpose of such monitoring. The resources of the Fund shall be made available and broken down annually after the adoption of the decree referred to in Article 1, paragraph 335 of Law No 234 of 30 December 2021, by which, among other things, the savings made in relation to the adaptation of staff carried out to the extent corresponding to the cessations planned annually. Where, on the basis of the results of the monitoring carried out by the Ministry of Education, increases in posts not forming part of the staff of the compensatory autonomy of the adjustment referred to in the fourth period appear, the adjustment of the staff of the autonomy shall, to the maximum extent referred to in the fourth period, relate only to the quota of the increase and the assessment referred to in the previous period shall relate only to the savings made as a result of the adjustment of the staff of the increase to the extent corresponding to the annual cessations. The proportion of non-reduced posts in each school year increases the adjustment of the staff of the upgrading of the following school year and to this end the Fund referred to in the first period shall be increased to a corresponding extent. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance shall be authorised to make the necessary compensatory changes between the Fund referred to in this paragraph and the relevant salary chapters of the estimates of the Ministry of Education, even if the savings under this paragraph are not established.' - in Annex B (Article 16b (8)), introductory phrase, first sentence, after the words: 'the recognition of wage incentives', the following shall be inserted: ', within the limits of the resources allocated,'; - in Article 47, paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: "1. In order to strengthen support actions to school institutions for the implementation of actions related to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan for the digitisation of schools, for each of the school years included between the school year 2022/2023 and the school year 2025/2026 is identified by the Ministry of Education - Mission Unit for the PNRR a number of teachers and administrative assistants of 100 and up to a maximum of five school managers to be placed in command position at the Central Administration and at the Regional School Offices for the establishment of the School Support Group for the PNRR. This support group, as well as the territorial training teams, already established pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 725 of Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, and included among the existing projects of the PNRR, ensure constant support to the school institutions for the implementation of the investments of the PNRR, with the functional coordination of the Mission Unit of the PNRR. For the purposes referred to in this paragraph and in order to ensure the implementation of the reforms related to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, relating to the national education and training system, the Ministry of Education shall make use of a quota of experts, in maximum number of 6, in possession of specific and high competence in matters related to the national education and training system, in accordance with Article 7 (6) of Legislative Decree No 165 of 30 March 2001, until 31 December 2026, in support of the cabinet office, including with reference to the legislation in the field of education, to which a compensation of up to a maximum amount of 70,000 gross per job per year is due, within the limit of total expenditure not exceeding 420,000 euros per year. The charges referred to in the previous period shall be paid by means of a corresponding reduction in the authorisation of expenditure referred to in Article 1, paragraph 62, second period, of Law no. 107.'; In Article 47, paragraphs 6 and 7 are replaced by the following: "Six." In order to adapt the Statute of the Indire, the President, if a school manager, a public employee or a university teacher, for the entire duration of the appointment, if carried out full time, shall be placed in the position of out-of-role, leave or command, according to their respective legal systems. If the appointment is not full-time, it shall be carried out in accordance with their respective legal systems, without being placed in one of the above-mentioned positions and the President shall retain the economic treatment in enjoyment with charges borne by the administration of which he belongs, increased by the office allowance established by decree of the Ministry of Education in agreement with the Minister for Education and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance with charges charged to the budget of the Indire. Where the post is carried out full time, it shall be subject to economic treatment in accordance with the procedures laid down for the charge allowance referred to in the previous period provided for in the legislation in force with charges charged to the balance sheet of the Notice. ==References====External links== Finally, the following period is added to Article 1, paragraph 978, of Law No 178, 30 December 2020: "Educational institutions with numerical parameters equal to or greater than those foreseen in the first period are available for regional and interregional mobility operations and for the assignment of additional tasks both for school managers and for the directors of general and administrative services. The provisions of Article 19-c of Decree-Law No 4 of 27 January 2022, converted, with amendments, by Law No 25 of 28 March 2022, remain firm. There must also be no redundancy of staff with regard to the posts of Director of General and Administrative Services. The opinion is also made with the following comment: in Article 15-a, under the heading, the following words are deleted: "the provisions relating to the staff of the National Agency for Active Labour Policies and the National Labour Inspectorate."
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u97	In the light of the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, which you will certainly have followed very closely, I would ask the representative of the Government whether the Government intends to incorporate the opinion of the Budget Commission into the maxi amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u98	Mr President, let us take the indications of the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u99	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 36 of 30 April 2022 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u102	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, first of all, I would ask you to be able to hand over the text of my speech on a very important measure, because I would not like to take any time away from my fellow Members and, above all, to try to get the text approved as soon as possible. From this point of view, I would just like to make two brief comments. The first is that unfortunately there was no willingness to listen and to confront each other on the part of the Government. We were able to discuss this measure and convert it in almost three weeks, but only last Monday, and therefore three days ago, came the willingness of the Government to confront the proposals of the Commission and the rapporteurs - I thank them - in a very favourable climate. In fact, there was the will on the part of the whole majority to pursue such a delicate issue as that of precariousness in schools. Unfortunately this did not happen or took place very late, which has then triggered an enzyme cascade a whole series of problems, not least those of a few hours ago raised by the General Accounting of the State. I hope that at the end of the parliamentary term there will be a change of register by the Government, because rightly there are the legitimate needs of the parties and movements, as we approach the elections, also to underline their differences in relation to the voters. The second aspect is the need to avoid moving towards the technocratic system: we must not become a technocracy, but we must become a democracy again. And from this point of view we must admit the mistakes we have made in recent years in picking up, in destroying the party system, starting with the elimination of public funding for parties. In order for ours to become a true democratic system, I believe that we must begin to rebuild the party system in such a way as to really give the citizens a voice. In the end, those who put their faces in the territories are us elected, who then tell us that the State Accounting Office has said no, that the Minister has said no and therefore in the end the usual ones who ruin the political parties, the elected who ruin this country are always us. So I hope there's a real change of pace, otherwise we're going to be very bad in this country. Of course, I am voting in favour of confidence in this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u105	CRUCIOLI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, we have long been clear about the fiction of this democratic rite. We know the Commissions don't decide. We know that a simulacrum of democratic confrontation takes place here, but having heard it from the speaker, from a prestigious exponent of one of the most prone parties in power of this majority has not left us indifferent, it has given us a certain impression, because what has happened today is before everyone's eyes. You know that all the majority parties have tried, meritoriously, to avoid a cut that was planned for the teaching staff of the school and you know perfectly well that there was agreement also with the MEF. Yet, in a matter of seconds, with a technical opinion from the Accounting Office, this agreement has been wiped out and therefore, at the age of three, there will be cuts for 10,000 chairs. Other than solving the problems of the chicken classes! More than making new hires! We're going in the opposite direction. Yet, although you have acknowledged that the king is naked, that this Parliament no longer decides anything, that there are technical decisions imposed by constraints under the Plan - then the plan is this: structural cuts, employee cuts - despite all this you know, tonight you will vote for the measure under consideration. You do this because the Plan is exactly this: stick and carrot; on the one hand, the stick of the structural cuts imposed by Europe, those that are called reforms to allow there to be a return of everything that has been given; on the other hand, the carrot, that is, the manger, prevails for friends. In the measure, which sets out in the title urgent measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, measures would be expected to help our drought-deprived farms; urgent measures would be expected for our construction companies that risk failing to block tax credits; measures would be expected to limit the cost of petrol and gas oil that has stably exceeded the two euros; aid to businesses and families would be expected to cope with the triple cost of bills, the erosion of purchasing power caused by rising inflation. And instead, there's none of this. Instead, as we said, there are the prebende and the tools to fix friends. See what Article 6 (5) says: it provides a residence allowance for civil servants who are put to work in the European Union, 400,000 for 2022 and one million from 2023. Basically, there is no money for teachers, there is no euro for our businesses, but there are millions of euros to settle and give subsistence allowances to those who are friends, employees who are posted to the European Union. On the other hand, it will also be possible for officials of international organisations and of the European Union to have managerial positions in our public administrations. Do we want to talk about Article 9 (3)? How can we fail to feel the need to increase the organic plan of the Council Presidency by three management positions, with EUR 330,000 in 2022 and EUR 660,000 from 2023? Again, there is the possibility for the Presidency of the Council to authorise recruitment of staff by way of derogation from the current rules, with EUR 800,000 from 2023. In addition to the prebende there are also derogations that will allow greater discretion in recruitment of staff and in the management of public contracts, which are two areas where corruption has always been flagrant. Then, Article 7 gives discretion to the central administrations involved in the implementation of the Plan to entrust assignments of collaboration and to recruit employees, completely repealing the limits of legitimacy provided for by Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, which, as you know, has general rules - but has been exempted - on the law of public employment. There is also Article 10, which allows administrations to give paid assignments to retired friends - other than young people - and extends derogations to implementing actors from selective procedures, extending these derogations even outside the implementation of the Plan: a sort of free everyone, do a little 'what you want, hire whoever you want, assign assignments to whoever you want. There is article 36, which even assimilates the dioceses and ecclesiastical bodies to the actuators, introducing for them also the derogations in the matter of recruitment and execution of public contracts. If you link these rules "free all" with Article 21 of the simplification decree, which limits the control of the Court of Auditors and provides for the possibility for it to sanction the erarial damage only when it basically finds one with the bribe in his pocket, only in the presence of harm caused by dole, and never instead for guilt, you understand that you want to allow those who can eat over that money, money that - I repeat - is all in debt, so few will benefit, and all of us will pay then. There is also duplication of bodies: Article 27 establishes the National Health Prevention System against Environmental and Climate Risks, instead of running the existing National Network System for Environmental Protection, thus providing far-reaching coordination mechanisms between the two bodies and an inevitable steering booth. Again, there is a fund of over 400 million for the Space Agency, the possibility of naming experts with - again - hundreds of thousands of euros to be distributed to friends and so on. So when we said what this Plan is, we were talking about stick and carrot: stick because they are dry cuts where they really serve; carrot because they are distributed prebende. The last one arrived a few minutes ago - we have learned it now - is the possibility of the Director-General of Customs to appoint three deputy directors; think that we have made a statement against the Director-General of Customs for the waste he has accomplished. On the contrary, he is given the opportunity to please his neighbors, his friends, being able to give them posts as deputy director. Again with regard to the stick, there are other rather serious issues, namely control measures and censorship. I quote as an example Article 4, which provides for the inclusion of a section in the code of conduct of civil servants on the proper use of social media, information technology and the media. Basically, the possibility of putting in the code of conduct of civil servants limits to the use of social media and the expression of their opinions is expected, because so those who disagree with the power of that moment, those who disagree with mainstream and unique thinking can be easily sanctioned. This is what this plan is: stick, cuts, censorship, tools of control and carrot, prebende and manger, which are then the reason why you, while knowing that these measures are not useful for the country, will vote for them tonight. You will do so because your parties know that they can benefit from it; few will benefit and you think you are among them. You think you are the saved and do not care about the submerged, all those who have a pension under 1,000 euros or who have a salary of 1,200 euros per month. For them not a single euro, instead for your friends prebends and hundreds of thousands of euros. We shall therefore, once again, vote against and consider your vote in favour consciously to be treason. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u107	You may do so if you consider that you do not deliver.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u108	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr. President, I don't even think about it. [[Applause]] The fact that this was a special measure was immediately known to the rapporteurs and to the two Presidents of the Commission who followed a rather complicated process. It was an omnibus, linked to the PNRR, but not only, son - this was the only justification he had - of an emergency condition. Important measures, for what concerns us, on the university and a reform of the world of school, therefore of the world of knowledge, which was not only sketched out, but defined in many of its parts, particularly in the form of recruitment and in the subsequent stages, training and so on. What we can happily say is that compared to the text that came to us from the Council of Ministers, some improvements have been made and so the result can be welcomed. I say welcome, I do not say totally positive. I welcome the fact that no bonus-free incentive training has been provided, limited to 40%, because for the first time the evaluation of the teachers' merit is planned, the teacher card is not touched in its general system, we have planned the competition not for quiz, but open questions, and therefore we will have the opportunity to find out if the new teachers will manipulate and govern the mother tongue, among other things, and the selections, with different parameters for teachers who have three-year experience over five years, have been planned and adopted. We could do more, we could do better; we could do more on the points that have already been touched on today in the concluding report by Senator Cangini. We could have done better if there had been more respect for Parliament. I come to a point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which is delicate and has already been touched, but which I want to return to after having said two things. I am proud of the work of the Commissions and, I am also speaking on behalf of President Parrini, the rapporteurs. There was a cohesive majority and a responsible opposition. I am still proud of the relationship we have interwoven with Undersecretary Bini and Minister D'Inc, who have never failed to understand and understand the reasons of Parliament, even though they are part of the Government. Let us now come to the problems, Mr President; problems which do not concern the two Commissions or President Pesco's 5th, which have followed this measure for a month, but which concern the framework of parliamentary activity, because this is what we are talking about today, and not just today. If any of us wanted to open the Treccani, the word "technocracy" would read: alternative to democracy, postulate transfigured into the general class against a universal evil, people and elected. I understand that it is a strong concept to digest, certainly an exaggerated representation of a concept, exasperated, but in our case it is a real problem. However, the transition from parliamentary democracy to deliberative democracy, based on the hypertrophic function of technicians, with this measure has reached unattainable points, at least for those who speak to you. I am talking about a technique, I am talking about parliamentary procedures, and in conclusion I am also talking about something else, Mr President. The procedures we witnessed could only make sense in the season of full balance between the powers of the State when, especially between the executive and the legislative, there was a condition of equality. Against the background of a disparity between an executive with clear prominence over the Chambers, these procedures are a vice that hinders the good work of this Assembly, and I am also afraid of the Twin Assembly in Montecitorio. Therefore, these procedures, if they are applied today in the constancy of this variance, do not guarantee any correctness in the processability of the measures and measures that the House is discussing. So, yesterday but not today. Senator Cangini said it, without resorting to sophisms: too many sovereign states in the antechamber of Ministers [[Applause]] that make Parliament a vassal, nailed, on the one hand, to the flexible management of Article 81 - I do not use Neapolitan terms in order not to offend the Neapolitans - and, on the other hand, to the call for European commitments that are mocked as if in front of you you had no members of parliamentary committees but students in the first year of jurisprudence. [[Applause]] Mr President, we are well aware of the constraints, we have voted for them in this very valuable place. I am proud that the rapporteurs opposed it, that the members of the three Commissions opposed it and that the Presidents opposed it: they did the right thing to improve the rule and to set a precedent that I hope will not happen again. I say this in Italian, Mr President: if there has been a risk of delaying the adoption of the decree-law until it has been compromised, this has not been the responsibility of Parliament. I also tell Senator Iannone that I listened carefully: the problem was not in the parliamentary majority, but it had to be shared at least, and I stress that. Rapporteurs, Commissions, Offices - our Offices, and what Offices, Mr President: chapeau three times! [[Applause]] - they have done their work quickly and with extraordinary competence, and I would like to say with an unusual - if they compare it with other places - correctness. If Parliament is considered to be overly quarrelsome, this characteristic - I repeat - must be shared. I'll finish. I have good reason to believe that perhaps this legislature could correct the procedures and the next one be a constituent legislature. I say this because we cannot allow the third stage of innovation of the Italian political system to take place in silence and only on condition of an extraordinary and emergency life. We first knew the excess of the decrees; then the de facto monocameralism; finally, the passage from the Government of the technicians, legitimate, to the technicians to the Government. Onirico: it is a passage that cannot be allowed at all. Let the Houses judge whether the permanence of this state of affairs can continue or not. I think it is, yes, time for profound changes. Everyone says that changes are also a sign of great opportunities: that's true and that's not true. Changes give birth to opportunities only on the condition that they are governed by a vision. If there is a vision, they become an opportunity. Otherwise, they become the opposite. And since we are in the seat where the Charter was adopted and discussed the Constitution for the first time, we have a duty not to remain silent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u111	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, we are witnessing yet another vote of confidence and Brothers of Italy, for the umpteenth time, will say no to this Government, which seems more and more like a mad mayonnaise. I say this because, together with my colleagues, Senator Malan and Senator Barbaro, as well as my colleagues from the 5th Commission, Senators Calandrini and De Carlo, we have, from the beginning, placed ourselves against this measure with an attitude of extreme seriousness and responsibility, in the awareness of what it could and should represent for our nation. We are talking about urgent measures for the implementation of the PNRR. Well, if good morning is seen from the morning, first there has been this troubled experience that we have experienced in the Commissions. I repeat: a kidnapping for whole days. During the day there were continuous delays and at night we tried to recover the lost time for a clear lack of homogeneous vision within the majority and lack of relationship with the government. I turn to President Nencini, whom I will never lack respect and human esteem, who knows how to be sincere in thanking him, together with the rapporteur, Mr Cangini and the Undersecretary, Bini, for the human availability, which has never failed in the confrontation. I would add, however, that, frankly, we feel that we are listening to Swedish tourists who are visiting Parliament, who disassociate themselves from their choices, since, in the near future, we will see a vote of confidence where all those critics will vote in favour of trust. I would remind you that we have listened to virtually all the parties, from the general debate to the explanations of vote so far, to complain and criticize, rightly, the way in which the work has been done and also the merit of the measure as it has been dealt with and for what comes out of it. I would like to express solidarity with my colleagues in the majority for the obvious short circuit that there has been with the Government, but even more so with the Italian citizens who have to attend this authentic theater, in which we recognize all the limit of the work done and then the conclusion remains the exact reverse. I believe that this is mortifying for political stories that deserve much more dignity, but unfortunately our leader Giorgia Meloni was right in saying that this Government and this majority are not together, so there can be no other result except what every day becomes more evident. We have tried in every way to help achieve the ultimate result and, for intellectual honesty, I must also respond to certain amendments which have been adopted in a dry way, to others which have been absorbed by other amendments or in any case of content which have been transposed. The rapporteurs and Presidents of the Commission are well aware that those amendments did not represent the priorities that Brothers of Italy had indicated. In any case, we believe that we have been more useful to the majority than the majority have been useful to us, but this is the attitude that Brothers of Italy has taken from the first moment, because we are consistent with the opposition of the Government, but we will never play the worst so much better towards our homeland. [[Applause]] We have proposed amendments to help municipalities and provinces. Those who have been local administrator know well that some municipalities have difficulty finding even the secretaries general and some Provinces, after the Delrio reform (which many have voted, that many criticize and that many want to dismantle without succeed), are ghost entities. They are like Tot's fog in Milan: they are there, but they are not visible. [[Applause]] After emptying them of their human capital, do we think that these entities that want to accept the challenge of the PNRR can conclude something positive? We have tried to support the proposals that came to us from the Italian National Association of Municipalities (ANCI) and the Union of Provinces of Italy (UPI), from those administrators who are of all political parties and who share a condition of extreme difficulty, in which every day they are forced to say, with facts and words: I wish, but I cannot. One chapter of the measure is dedicated to the school and was the final rock. In my opinion the mistake was in the beginning. We also talked about this with the Minister and with President Nencini, to whom I wish to bear witness to institutional culture, because about a month ago they had the kindness to intervene in the initiative that we had promoted of the general states of the school and we had received an openness that we wanted to believe, because it seemed important to us. I must say that what emerges is very disappointing, because the priority that we identify, that is, the stabilisation of our precarious staff of the school, once again does not find its fulfillment. This government is concerned not to incur a European infringement procedure in relation to our beaches, condemning them to death, when instead we are already in infringement procedure for our teachers, who are not stabilized. [[Applause]] It is then clear that we see the reality we want and, above all, it is not a discovery today that politics has abdicated the role of choosing, deciding and taking responsibility for the technostructures that have been raging for too long. Maybe you're waking up too late compared to this reality. If we do not give respect for our role first, who should give it to us? What is the use of elections when it is allowed since we have been waiting for years to return to the polls and see the succession of governments that are built in vitro, if then the story is made by the General Accounting of the State? This is what citizens do not understand in terms of the role of politics. Mr President, I am beginning to conclude without lingering in so many other matters. Too many times we read in the press x-rays to the ruling class of Brothers of Italy, more or less ready to the challenge of government. I believe that if these reporters had listened carefully to the work, as they have been doing these days, they would have had to review their judgment a great deal. We humbly and with the knowledge that we will also have to remedy the further rubble that you have left in this five-year period, but we are sure not to end this mad mayonnaise, with many who are born incendiary and are dying firemen, with people who started with Rousseau and will end with Tabacci. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u114	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, I will not dwell on the issues that were discussed during the general discussion of the measure. I would like to devote this explanation of vote in particular to the subject which was at the heart of the long opinion that Senator Binetti had to read as Secretary of the Assembly. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u115	Colleagues, I think Senator Malpezzi deserves to speak with the same tranquility as the other speakers did.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u116	Please, Senator Malpezzi. MALPEZZI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that I will focus my speech on that part that has been the subject of the long opinion read by Senator Binetti in his role as Secretary. The theme of the school is central - we all say - but then in fact sometimes you risk not being able to achieve exactly the things you had in mind. As soon as the decree-law under consideration was approved by the Council of Ministers, we made statements, saying that we hoped that it would not become yet another missed opportunity (since this often happens when we deal with the subject of the school) and, above all, that the PD would improve it in the parliamentary classrooms. The measure has been improved by this majority that has worked compactly, and has understood and shared the problems and solutions to really try to improve and make the text effective, seeking a synthesis and an idea of school that, from its point of view, could have served to complete the challenge contained within the measure and the PNRR. I regret to say that unfortunately we have not been able to do everything, or rather in the Commission it has been done, then we have been postponed to September, but also rejected. I say this with regret, because we wanted to try to pass a message, which has passed only in part and therefore, in the next appointments, we will have to work to make it really effective. I am referring to a clear message: all the savings in denatality - that is, it is a fact, it is a statistical figure that will go on over the years and will create savings in the school - from our point of view they must return to the school sector. So we tried to hypothesize a mechanism: I say this to Senator Crucioli, because the criticism is fair and legitimate, but it is wrong to say that the provision to our examination cuts 10,000 teachers. The majority avoided any form of cutting and made sure that those resources could be dedicated to others, not with the cutting of teachers, but with a formula that we do not fully share, but that is definitely improving. Let's say this: it is a sort of freezing of the staff until 2031, that we did not want and on which we will intervene, but keeping clear the principle that the school savings have to go back to school, because that is where those resources can find the right vehicle, to improve the offer we want to give to our children and our children, our students and our students. We believe in the school, we have great esteem and trust in our teachers and we have not forgotten that in the last two years they have worked in very complicated conditions. [[Applause]] With this awareness we have tried to undermine a sort of prejudice, which we have read in some opinion that has been handed over to us, with respect to the role and function of teachers, especially of precarious teachers. We come from a very strong experience, as a Democratic Party: we are the party that in 2017 realized Legislative Decree No. 59 of 2017, with which we established the three-year path of initial training, internship and inclusion in the teaching function, to reform the preparation of our teachers, because we believed that there could be specific paths, especially for the precarious who had years of teaching behind them and who had to be somehow certified. We know that this measure has made a bad end, there is no longer a very bad budget law, but on this trail we have tried to improve the decree in question, thinking of finding a way in which to evaluate the professional competence of our teachers, because it can be assessed. We asked - and the majority also asked for this - for a specific test that could ascertain the professional skills of teachers already experienced. What is important, from our point of view, is not the knowledge of discipline, but the way in which it is transmitted, and it is on this that our teachers should be evaluated, even in the tests to be admitted to certain paths or to achieve certain objectives. [[Applause]] This was a very clear principle for us and it is not the chase at the time that had to stop us from bringing home this result: we will return. I was saying that we have improved it and I have pointed out a great and strong criticality, on which we will intervene later, but Parliament has improved the measure in several respects. There are no more quizzes: let's remember, always in the wake of what we said before. The evidence must in fact be created and thought not just to make it soon, but to identify the disciplinary and professional competences of the candidates. The multi-choice quiz, if it is not done well, only helps those who have the advantage of having a strong memory: it is not said that those with good memory skills are necessarily the best teacher and we want the best teachers. [[Applause]] We are also pleased because, always in the changes that the majority has made, the theme of young people has been included, who are often the great absentees in the debate on school. I am thinking of the thousands of young people who have received the twenty-four training credits regardless of whether they have done the service or not. The decree had forgotten; this was our great battle and we all won it together. Today we have a rule that says this and that therefore recognizes one more element. We could also say a lot about the path through which we will become teachers, because we know that we will achieve the qualification once we have obtained the master's degree or the second level diploma. It is so better outlined the path, it has a more specific character, it is not left to the indeterminateness in which it was likely to end. We had no prejudices on the previous model that had been presented by the Government, but here too we started from a premise: if the teacher's work is a profession that wants professionalism, before learning to do so you must have knowledge and then skills. We have worked in this direction and today we have a good synthesis. We claim another aspect, however, Mr President; it must be said forcefully, because it was another great action of this majority. For at least two years we have saved the teacher's card, which every leading teacher has been receiving for a long time to pay for his training, the material for innovative teaching, cultural consumption. The specific issue will be referred back to the next budget law, but here we have said one thing: if our teachers are the least paid in Europe, we cannot take away an opportunity that they need and that is important for their training. This majority has worked to achieve this result. [[Applause]] We were sorry that this path was not shared with the outside world. Perhaps we could have found a better synthesis in a comparison with the trade union world and with the representatives of the school; this confrontation has failed and everything has been postponed to the future negotiation, in a very limited area of which the horizon is not yet visible. However, here we say this and I conclude my speech with these words: one can no longer overlook that there is a problem as big as a house on the contract and on the remuneration of teachers. Teachers are more than 90 percent magisterial graduates, yet, compared to the same ministerial figures, they earn 4,000 euros less per year. Contract and remuneration for PD are priority issues and we will continue to address them in the coming challenges. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u119	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, all the members of the two competent Commissions and their Presidents, for this has been a difficult and complicated work. I would also like to thank them for their patience, not only among us, but also for having to constantly be very careful in following the evolution of our discussions. I would also like to thank our legislative offices for their support, and not just the Senate officials, whom I also thank. Our legislative offices have been very valuable to try (because of this, and in part we have succeeded) to make our contribution to a decree-law that we all said was necessary to improve many of its parts. This is a sort of "monster decreto," as they do now, because it consists of 50 articles and deals with various topics. But it is evident to everyone that the pivot of this decree is the part that concerns the school. For a long time, he had been expecting the development of a model for the training of first and second grade secondary school teachers, which would enable school staff to play an active role. I have to say that the training and skill path outlined in the decree, thanks to this patient work, perhaps starts on a track a little more just. I would now like to turn to a few elements that I want to claim for the work we have done, because they are positive. One for all - President Malpezzi has just mentioned - is the fact that we have fixed what we have all recognized as a serious mistake, that is the cut of the card, which today is in some way part of the salary (as we once said). It is true that school reform has been included in the PNRR's path, but - and this is the other element that I want to stress, because it is absolutely not secondary - we continue to have the least paid teachers in Europe. We then spoke about the most dramatic problem - and I will come back to the case of training - which concerns the endemic precariousness within the school. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u120	Colleagues, please allow my colleague to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u121	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). We have tried in various ways, even in the last legislature for the truth, and also on different fronts (we have different judgments on the provision on good school), to address and heal the problem of precariousness, as we have already tried to make two years ago with other decrees. This is one of the things to think about. I give you some data: one curriculumr on seven was precarious; in support among other things one teacher in two is precarious. These are the data and statistics. I think that in this regard, too, we have managed to make some contribution, to work towards a process of certainty, which concerns teachers but above all the quality of the educational process and of learning, which is deeply linked to the quality of training certainly, but also to the stability of the protagonists of the school. This is also one of the reasons why we continued - it is not the first time - to fight against the crosses, because we are absolutely convinced that the quality and ability of a teacher cannot be judged through quizzes. Once again in this decree I believe that we have all succeeded in affirming this principle together; we must ensure that it is really applied. We have worked to ensure that the suitable teachers' competitions are completed by sliding the rankings. We have dealt with and tried to avoid the planned cut also in respect of the staff of upgrading. I could continue with the list: I am thinking, for example, of the simplification of the transitional rules for access to competitions for precarious staff; we have been able to extend until the year 2025-2026 the extraordinary procedure on support that guarantees teachers specialized in support to be able to take part, where the rankings are exhausted. The question of restructuring and also the structuring of an organic and coherent path for certification and entry into role, I believe that we have all been working together. I believe that we have somehow managed, even on this, to do a good job, thinking of giving a turning point in some way also to the training activities. The work carried out together with tenacity has certainly produced some improvements that we must absolutely claim and we do so also because it was not easy to work, to write the rules, to overturn some opinions that were obviously not positive by the Government on some of them. It was therefore a hard work, which has certainly produced its effects, but not all those we hoped for, we must say this very clearly, but not because we did not reach a community of intent, having also written together the rules, because this was guaranteed. My initial thanks are precisely for this patient work that has put together different points of view, which has faced the technical nodes even a little 'in solitude, in a sort of self-management. I also mean with a point of controversy - on the polemics I will come back later - that we could call ourselves a sort of collective in self-management, that has not even had a great comfort from the competent Ministry - we must say it very clearly - [[Applause]] which was to support our work because it was in the interests of everyone, including the Minister and the Ministry, to give support in all ways also to the issues that arose, related to the remarks that the Budget Commission and all of us had to deal with for a long time, reviewing some of the rules that we had written and approved in my opinion in a very clear and effective way. But I come to the point. I certainly agree with what was said today by the rapporteur, Mr Cangini, and Mr Nencini, but we also need to know what the development of this Parliament has been. We cannot forget that our country was the only European country to put balance in the Constitution. We had to imagine that this would eventually become a string around our necks and that since that process of integration was accompanied by the fact that more and more parliamentary assemblies were put in an ancillary position with respect to the Commission, with the decree of urgency and with the continuous imposition of confidence, the combined arrangement of these two elements today produces the fact that Parliament, as happened on this decree, is often in no way in a position to enforce its own decisions and work. It is clear that we will no longer be able to go on in this way, not only because we respond to voters and others, like technicians, will not respond to voters, but because this is producing a annihilation of democracy and sooner or later all of us and the country will pay the costs in a very significant way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u122	Since we do not want to suspend work even for a minute, at the request of the Government the Presidency authorizes the 5th Commission to convene itself during the explanations of vote for a small speech to be made on the final text.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u125	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to those who have worked hard these days and also during these nights, before speaking on the merits of the decree-law that we will be converting at first reading, because no one has remembered it, but the Commissions 1a and 7a have also worked at night. I remember those colleagues who shared those night hours with me, and I also thank them for their attention. Thanks must be given first of all to the two rapporteurs, who were very good: Mr Cangini from my own Group has made a reply which has led to the applause of the entire Senate Assembly, of all the participants, for the things he has said, to which we will return. I would also like to thank the two Presidents of the Commission; President Nencini, who has taken responsibility for carrying out the examination of Decree-Law No 36 in a very good way, which will certainly have important repercussions in the future of our country. I would like to thank all the members of the majority and the opposition as a whole. I am sorry to have seen my colleague Iannone leave, but there is Senator Malan: many of the opposition's amendments have been approved; Iannone did not say so, I say so for Brothers of Italy. I hope that the colleagues of Brothers of Italy are happy with this. In my opinion, they should also vote for this measure, since they also vote against their own amendments and that is not a good thing. [[Applause]] I believe that this must be remembered, because on this occasion no difference has been made and this is a honour to the majority, who evidently did not place fences and it did not make any difference if the amending council came from an opposition force, but tried to understand simply where it was going, if it was useful for the nation and for the Italian people. I believe that this must be remembered; the colleague of Brothers of Italy did not do it, I do it. Then I say we gave a good test of us. I have heard Members who have spoken against the majority, but in this measure a cohesive majority has come out, Members of Parliament who have worked hand in hand, who have all shared the same protest, among other things, that of a role which, obviously, over the last fifteen, twenty, thirty years, has gradually been lost in this Parliament. It was said by Senator Laniece and said so by President Nencini. [[Applause]] But whose fault is it if a bureaucrat, a technocrat - the colleague has spoken of technocracy, rightly - even the opinion of the Members of Parliament, that is, of the elected by the Italian people, at this time prevaricates even the judgment of the Italian people? Even the government seemed to be submissive, or at least this is the feeling that I as a parliamentarians had in those hours and in those moments. And it's a paradox. Then whose fault is it? It is the fault of all those who have put their finger on anti-politics, dear gentlemen. [[Applause]] Because those who have spoken ill of the parties, those who have spoken ill of the Italian people and of what they chose, those who have wanted the political parties to become something very little important, almost of the usurpers, these people want the evil of this country, do not want the functioning of Parliament that is one of the organs provided for in our Constitution. We are the legislators, we should make this country work and this must be remembered; it is a premise that everyone, more or less, has made. I have, of course, given my assessment, because you know well - especially my colleagues in the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs who, from the first day (and I thank my President Anna Maria Bernini who has allowed me to) - have always characterized myself for the battle against anti-politics in this Parliament, in this parliamentary term. [[Applause]] If we don't bring dignity back, not to the Senate, but to the politics and parties that represent it, since they are included in our Constitution, we will never get out of it. Let us return to the measure, because it is right to say it: this is the decree implementing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. So, it has to be said quite rightly where it is. This is perhaps the subject that many people have not addressed, and it is right that the measure itself should be included in it. We know that this is some kind of Marshall plan, which should help this country. Where is he? Why the implementing decree? Indeed, there are problems, as the Undersecretary Garofoli said only a couple of weeks ago and as the newspapers in our country reported, first of all Il Sole 24 ore. I'm afraid we're taking a little bit of a step. There are some points of arrival: it seems that there are about 194 procedures awarded on June 5 for about 43 billion spending. However, the need to approve such a measure stems from the fact that things obviously did not go on. If all the objectives that were to be achieved will not be achieved by 30 July next year, unfortunately we risk losing the money that came to us from Europe, those famous 191.5 billion, of which 40 were lost. It's an old story for Italy, which can't spend the money that comes to it. This is an opportunity we can't miss. This branch of Parliament has succeeded in improving this implementing decree, integrating existing rules and trying to achieve important objectives. The Forza Italia Group, with over 50 MPs, managed to carry it forward. What are the objectives that must be pursued? We know that it is mainly the municipalities, the regions and the local authorities that must be able to spend this money and we must ensure that all this happens as quickly as possible, because some problems exist; bureaucracy still slows down and the purchasing power stations must be directed to the municipalities, which must be helped. This decree of implementation is trying to do so. Forza Italia to try to improve the measure has tabled a whole series of amendments, some of which, not a few, have been adopted. These are amendments concerning public competitions, recruitment of non-directive staff, which seek to simplify and speed up proceedings. [[Applause]] Let us think, for example, of our amendment for the benefit of sport and the allocation of funds, tabled by our President, Mr Bernini. We still think about the recruitment of staff for the Agency for the South and the strengthening of the famous National School of Administration (SNA), which is so dear to our Minister Brunetta. 23.35 p.m. (Follow PAGE). The strengthening of the National Agency for the Evaluation of the University System and Research (Anvur) in favour of people with disabilities. With my dear colleague, Mr Gallone, we have had the thanks of the representatives of those who want us to have a moment of attention to people with disabilities. The strengthening of the Child Care Authority is also a matter of concern to our colleague Mr Ronzulli. And again, there are interventions in favour of the staff of the Ministry of Justice and aid for investments in favor of swimming pools, which have had so many problems during this last period. [[Applause]] Finally, let me also mention my amendment introducing the logistics contract, which is also aimed at simplification, into the civil code. All the companies operating in the field of logistics have had problems of litigation; with this new norm we introduce a new article in the civil code that will simplify and reduce the litigation. [[Applause]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, I say that Parliament has given good proof of itself, the leadership is a bad proof of itself, and the government perhaps something more could do. Thank you and strength Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u128	PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this measure introduces new measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, focusing in particular on the importance of digital transition and the use of new IT tools in different areas of society. We all agree that it is important to respect the commitments made, but it must also be clear that it is not enough to include new rules in a decree-law in order to bring about a sustainable change for citizens and administrations. It is not possible to reason only on target, it is necessary that the regulatory interventions have fallen in reality, that they are aimed at simplifying and improving the daily life of Italians also through a greater efficiency of the public administration. The measure covers many areas. An intervention that seemed fundamental to us to propose and support is that which immediately authorizes the recruitment of 500 students agents of the State Police to increase the services of prevention and control of the territory, especially in the current context of serious social emergency. It is essential to ensure the presence of law enforcement forces in order to prevent and combat criminal activities and possible terrorist initiatives, as well as border control and control. [[Applause]] , also connected to the development of the Jubilee of the Catholic Church in 2025. In the decree-law we encourage digital payments to fight evasion and we have introduced mechanisms also to prevent possible fraud related to electronic payment instruments used in the lottery of receipts. We have in fact inserted an explicit and punctual clarification on the legal constraint that imposes, in order to participate regularly in the lottery, the obligatory overlap between the tax code used to generate the lottery code and the tax code associated with the owner of the electronic payment instrument or of the funds held on the credit or bank or postal debt relationships used for the purchase. The measure also provides for measures on infrastructure and cultural heritage, as well as novelties for tourism, justice, the environment, and there is a large chapter on the school, but much remains to be done - it will have to be done soon - mainly to support the less large local authorities, who are dealing with structural problems related mainly to the shortage of staff, who risk seeing discoveries positions in the organic plant with infungable functions. On this the administrations of the small municipalities did not find the answers they were looking for in the decree-law and it is the task of this Government and this majority to provide it with urgency. In the Commission, we have improved the text with the extension of the possibility for public administrations to use all those who are concerned to meet the requirements for the implementation of the PNRR. We have also approved our proposal for an extension to ensure that the municipalities concerned can include the process involved in the implementation of interventions on public goods for the benefit of the community. The timing provided for in the basic text did not take into account the small municipalities up to 1,000 inhabitants - let's talk about 1,996 municipalities - recipients of funding with a shortage of staff, which were also overloaded for commitments and obligations related to the PNRR. We express satisfaction with the acceptance of our fundamental request, as Mr Pazzaglini said, for the compensation to the municipalities affected by the 2016 earthquake of the Tari's lack of revenue on the properties still unattainable. [[Applause]] We mean this when we think of concrete aid that can be benefited through the PNRR. Let's get to the school. A success was undoubtedly the spirit of team patiently built in these months, with authentic general evidence in the amending phase of the last decrees, which allowed to receive unexpected results. The compactness in carrying out at least the shared battles, consolidated on this occasion, allowed Parliament to re-appropriate at least part of the legislative function, making the rapporteur of the Cangini measure say that more advanced school rules are being adopted than those laid down by the Government. Thanks to the extraordinary compactness of the majority and the firmness of the Presidents of the Education and Constitutional Affairs Commissions, we have obtained that the resources of the teaching card will not be touched. Teacher training will be financed by an ad hoc fund until 2024. The government has committed itself to finding additional resources since the next budget law. Of course, denatality is a fact, as is a fact, however, that Italy spends less on education than European partners: we have pointed out it strongly, obtaining that the savings due to the reduction in the number of students remain in the school sector. Lights and shadows obviously remain on the ordinamental front, where sharing is less easy: there is openness, even if it will be necessary to monitor the application criteria, the training paths enabling to teach, to which are interested, in addition to those who teach in the state school (second section of the provincial rankings for supplements), in the peers (where the shortage of qualified teachers makes themselves felt particularly) and in the vocational training centers (FP), the teachers of so-called caged role, to whom the possibility of obtaining the qualification for teaching for a different class of competition and/or for a different degree of education has so far been removed, while possessing the title of suitable studies. The achievement of the qualification is an essential condition to participate in the occupational mobility provided for by the national collective agreement of category (CCNL). And do not forget the doctors of research, to which the experiential value of their journey must be recognized, reaffirming at the same time the importance of attending and overcoming a specific training course dedicated to teaching in secondary school. The question of the transitional phase for overcoming the historical precariousness cannot be considered closed. On the contrary, there is a contradiction between the European demand for greater attention in the selection of teachers and internal pressures, with the imposition of a time frame out of reality, to resolve the problem by exhuming the pre-selection (in practice, a competition to access another competition) and cross tests, certainly fast and economic, but absolutely not able to evaluate attitude, ability, maturity and knowledge of the Italian language of teachers. [[Applause]] All this only to comply with the commitment to recruit new teachers by 2024. The recruitments, if there is political will, even with all the attention, have never been a problem of times. The doubt is that the use of mechanisms such as pre-selection and cross tests, moreover already excluded from future competitions, has, in reality, the objective, not to facilitate but, on the contrary, to cut off the historical precariousness, which even in the last decade has been charged to shore up the system. The current cross competitions have in fact halved, when not even reduced to a third, the percentage of teachers who usually pass the test: and certainly not because of lack of quality of competitors. We will therefore fight for the extension of the transitional phase, so as to remove any justification for the use of these instruments. [[Applause]] Going back to positive measures, we have obtained access to specialization courses on support, even without qualification, for those who have three years of specific experience. I remember that over a third of the teaching staff are not specialized. There is the restoration, in competitions, of the merit rankings of the fit to cover the posts that subsequently become vacant and available. We particularly cared, together with the return of the interim allocation interprovincial, important especially for mothers with small children, a question that on other tables seems finally to start to solution. There is the exemption of the school manager's collaborators for emergency schools. Finally, there is the extraordinary competition for Catholic religious insecure persons with at least thirty - six months of service in state schools. The rankings, following the extraordinary procedure, will be used each year until their total exhaustion. The time limits for submitting applications, the procedures for carrying out the didactic-methodological oral test and the evaluation of the same and the qualifications for the preparation of the rankings will be laid down by the Ministry of Education. For these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u131	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to adopt a measure in which an important heart is contained, because it is the beating heart of our country: school, education. I would like to refer to what has happened in the Education and Culture Committee. The members of that Commission, thanks to their ability to listen, analyse and compare, have been able to draw up common points of fall and foreheads on some fundamental principles, which have become a matter of necessity for a majority that does not so often succeed, with the ways in which they have managed to elaborate the components of these Commissions, to find points of fall and to remain firm, with loyalty and responsibility, on those positions. Once again, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, the Education and Culture Commission has also been able to teach this House a great deal. This is one of the treasures with which we should return home after this long, rugged journey. It has been a rough path for a number of reasons which have already been listed by the rapporteur, Mr Cangini, whom I thank, together with the rapporteur, Mrs Rojc, the President of the 7th Commission, Mr Nencini, and my previous colleagues. As has already been pointed out in this House, such accidents stem from discrasies, forcings, unprecedented procedures, which forced this Commission to deal with a technical counterpart who has not always had the capacity to relate to the political counterpart at the same level of respect, listening and dialogue as has always come from the political side. [[Applause]] Allow me an analogy: sometimes, alas, we have been treated as schoolchildren. Expected that we all die ignorant, we should remember from time to time that maybe those in front of us also have something to teach us. [[Applause]] I could then talk about the use of Article 81 of the Constitution. Alas, in fact, the Movimento 5 Stars did not discover during the examination of this decree-law that sometimes Article 81 of the Constitution is used in an perhaps excessive and surreptitious way to hide opinions that are actually of merit and not based purely on a accounting calculation. [[Applause]] Let me say that perhaps we have understood deeply precisely in this provision, in which we have had to deal with the beating heart of the development of the community that lives peacefully in a nation, that sometimes the Accounting, where it exceeds, improperly occupies spaces, to the detriment not so much of politics, but of the people on whom those decisions based on a pure accounting calculation are made and imposed. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we must tell ourselves that it is not only a matter of claiming constitutionally recognized prerogatives to constitutionally placed organs on the same level, but with different prerogatives; it is a matter of understanding as far as we want it to be the Accounting Office that governs the life of communities and not the political vision that legitimately expresses and carries out every force. [[Applause]] I want to go further and I do not want the political force to which I belong if I allow myself this personal license, but perhaps we should start to place these issues also in international fora, because it is not only an Italian problem that of a technocracy, of a Accounting, of logics that sometimes forget that we are dealing with people's lives and that they are remembered only where the danger of social turbulence is feared. [[Applause]] Then let us take advantage of this experience that has united us and that we could not have crossed and overcome, if we had not had the support of the Offices of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the 7th Commission, of all the officials and all the staff; it was an experience that we could not have overcome without a dialectic with the representatives of the Government. In particular, I address the Under-Secretarys Bini and Sartore. In fact, even in the moments when conflict has gone beyond peace, in this conflict and passion I have seen the will to participate and put our face. [[Applause]] Let me say that perhaps we, not as parliamentarians, but as members of a college of teachers should consider a calm, playful and affectionate repressing our Minister of Education. What have we managed to bring home with this provision? I'm glad Senator Malpezzi laughs, because it means I've been forgiven. Why are we going to vote in favour of this measure? Because on the school, despite everything, we managed to avoid cutting the teacher's Charter until 2024 and we tore the commitment in budget law to return to the cuts planned later and also because we managed to strengthen school autonomy thanks to the promotion of those intermediate professional figures supporting school autonomy and didactic and collegial work that - excuse the term in English - is called middle management. I do not like this term either, but I had to make it clear what we were talking about (one day, alas, we of culture will have to ask ourselves about the linguistic colonization to which we are still subject). [[Applause]] Thanks to our contribution, we expect exemptions for school managers' collaborators for schools in regency. Finally - let me say this - there is one very expected thing: the green light to the sliding of the rankings of the suitable teachers' competitions of the secondary school, as already done for the primary school. Leaving the perimeter of the school for a moment, I would like to remind you that many other proposals have passed that, to sum up the issues, go in the direction of greater legality, of the contrast to the conflict of interests, of the safety in the schools and in the public places and of the energy efficiency. For all these reasons, I ask all of us not to forget what has been said this evening in this House and - each of us individually (and I am referring above all to colleagues who were not present during the examination process, but who have experienced the same things at other times) - not to close the chapter with an explanation and a vote of confidence, but to return home, to reason together and to show the country that this Parliament, on some fundamental points, wants to leave a legacy to the ruling classes of the future. I remember that our young people will also, in part, be leaders in the political class of the future. What do we want to leave for inheritance? I say that a policy that takes back its space is the most beautiful legacy we can leave. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u133	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u134	GIARRUSSO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, over the years this House has seen many surreal debates, but I believe that few have been like this evening's debate. You have all agreed on the superpower of technoburocracy that seeks to enslave politics. Unbelievable! The same people who have put the highest representative of the technoburocracy in this country at the head of the government, and beyond now complain and discover that politics is enslaved to technoburocracy? [[Applause]] That's incredible! Then, the school treated so, at night, without a public debate in front of the citizens of the country, with the confidence of an all-inclusive decree: it is a reprehensible act! Not to mention, as has already been said, the shameful cuts, always required by those technoburocracies to which you have to pay the lace, in order to have the money. This was in fact the real arm wrestling: a do ut des. Who paid the tips that are present in the provision at our examination? The 10,000 teachers cut out in the coming years, the chicken classes, our students who do not have adequate schools! Remember that teachers are low paid, but you remember it for the tip, for the teacher's card and not for the salaries. Italexit will vote firmly against this measure, which is yet another shame of this Parliament and yet another violation of the Constitutional Charter, implemented with high, very serious cover-ups, which have once again stripped Parliament and its members of their prerogatives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u135	Mr President, due to a mere material error of the Government, in the transmission of the note pursuant to Article 81, on the decree-law that we are approving, certain parts were expunged, which were not to be expunged. The Commission then met again and decided to have the parties wrongly re-inserted in the opinion, which was already forwarded to the Assembly. [[Applause]] I therefore read out these parts of the opinion which had been mistakenly expunged. On page 2 of the opinion, paragraph 6 is added at the end: For the purposes referred to in paragraph 1, the duration of the fixed-term contracts of the staff employed, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 925, of Law No 178, 30 December 2020, in the year 2021 shall be extended until 31 December 2022. The following paragraph 7 is added: For the implementation of the provisions referred to in paragraph 6, the expenditure of euro 4,564,854 for the year 2022 shall be authorised, to which shall be provided by means of a corresponding reduction of the special fund of registered current part, for the purposes of the three-year budget 2022-24, as part of the Programme "Sources and special funds" of the Mission "Sources to be shared" of the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the year 2022, for the purpose partially using the provision relating to the Ministry of Justice. These were extensions that had to be actually made. I think the government representative can confirm the mistake that was made. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u136	The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u137	Madam President, the Government accepts the changes made by the Budget Committee, on the basis of an error that the Government itself had previously committed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u138	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u139	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 36 of 30 April 2022 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Doria is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Doria. (Senator Secretary Tosato makes the appeal.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 36 of 30 April 2022 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 202 Senators voting 201 Majority 101 Favorable 179 Contrars 22]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 36.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-444.ana.u141	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 00:47 a.m. on 23 June.
