ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:43 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2564. I would remind you that yesterday's sitting was followed by a reply from the rapporteurs. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u4	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment which reproduces, subject to certain technical amendments, the text of the Commissions meeting entirely replacing Article 1 of the draft law converting the decree-law in question, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u5	In the light of the Minister's statement, the Presidency shall assess the acceptable amendment, pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament again, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment fully replacing the single article of draft law No 2564, conversion into law of Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March 2022.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u7	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government and, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, forwards the text of the amendment to the Budget Commission, which is now authorised to convene. I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, how much time he needs to examine the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u8	Mr President, I understand or feel that there are changes to be considered very carefully, so I cannot tell you now how much time we will need, but certainly not less than an hour and a half-two hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u9	The sitting is therefore suspended until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 9.51 and resumed at 12.03.) The session is resumed. Colleagues, we have been informed by the Budget Commission that they will be able to complete their work by 12.45 p.m. The proposal is therefore to renegotiate pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. The sitting is suspended until 12.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.04 p.m. and resumed at 12.50 p.m.) The session is resumed. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u10	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which is not an obstacle, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to the insertion of the following amendments: - Article 5-c is replaced by the following: Article 5c 1. The following period shall be added to the single text of the legislative provisions concerning taxes on production and consumption and related criminal and administrative sanctions referred to in Legislative Decree No 504, Article 23, paragraph 12: "In place of that suspension, the Customs and Monopolies Agency, at the request of the authorised depositary, shall allow the same entity to continue its activity under tax filing arrangements for 12 months from the date on which the absence of the conditions referred to in paragraph 4 is established, subject to the existence of a special guarantee provided by the same depositary. In each of the twelve months this guarantee must be equal to 100% of the excise duty due on energy products extracted from the tax warehouse in the previous calendar month; the guarantee is provided or adequate in money or government bonds. After twelve months without proof of the restoration of the conditions referred to in paragraph 4, the authorization to operate under tax filing shall be revoked and 1st licence referred to in Article 25 (4) shall be issued at the request of the operator. By decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the arrangements for implementing the provisions referred to in this paragraph, including those relating to the provision of the guarantee, shall be laid down.' 2. For the twelve-month period referred to in Article 23, paragraph 12, of the single text of the legislative provisions concerning taxes on production and consumption and related criminal and administrative sanctions, as referred to in Legislative Decree No 504, for the purposes of VAT due on energy products extracted from the tax warehouse, the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 941, of Law No 205, of 27 December 2017, are not applicable; - in Article 8-a, point (b) is replaced by the following: (b) to (p-a), after the words: "up to 24 months." the following period is added: "For the same loans, the initial repayment period of which begins within a period not prior to 1 June 2022, the abovementioned term, at the request of the financed entity and after agreement between the parties, may be deferred for a period not exceeding six months, without prejudice to the reporting and prudential requirements.'- in Article 12-a, the following paragraph shall be added at the end: The burden arising from this article, valued at 3.6 million euros for the year 2022, is provided by means of a corresponding reduction of the Fund for the indifferent needs referred to in Article 1, paragraph 200, of Law no. 190 of December 23, 2014. - Article 12-b is replaced by the following: Article 12-b (Amendments to Article 26 of Legislative Decree 14 September 2015, n. 148). 1. In Article 26, paragraph 9, of Legislative Decree 14 September 2015, n. 148, after letter c), the following is added: " c-bis): to ensure, optionally, the monthly payment of social security contributions in the framework of the processes related to the generational relay in favour of workers who meet the requirements for retirement or early retirement in the next three years, allowing the simultaneous employment with the same employer of workers aged no more than 35 years completed for a period not less than three years.". Consequently, in article 33, paragraph 3, of the same legislative decree n. 148 of 2015, the following period is added: The costs and lower revenue relating to the performance referred to in Article 26 (9) (c-bis) shall be financed by an extraordinary contribution to be paid exclusively by the employer of an amount corresponding to the coverage requirements of those cost items." - in Article 13-a, the words "in accordance with the budgetary balances" shall be replaced by the following: "in accordance with the budgetary balances and without the use of the administrative surplus" shall be replaced; - in Article 19-b, paragraph 3 shall be deleted; in Article 20-b, the following period shall be added at the end: - Article 31-a is replaced by the following: Article 31-a (Assistance measures for unaccompanied minors from Ukraine). 1. In the context of the relief measures provided for by the civil protection orders following the resolution of the state of emergency adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 February 2022, the municipalities that receive unaccompanied minors from Ukraine as a result of the political and military crisis in place, in the structures authorized or accredited pursuant to Article 8 (3) (f) of Law No 328 of 8 November 2000, or that bear the costs related to the family custody of the same minors, provided in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of Law No 184, 4 May 1983, is recognised by the Delegated Commissioner referred to in Article 2 of the Order of the Head of the Department of Civil Protection No 876 of 13 March 2022, the reimbursement of the costs incurred, up to a maximum of 100 euro per day per capita. To this end, the aforementioned Commissioner makes use of a support structure to be defined by order of the Head of the Department of Civil Protection, up to the limit of total expenditure of euro 237,701 for the year 2022. For the implementation of the measures referred to in this paragraph, the Fund for national emergencies, referred to in Article 44 of Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2 January 2018, is increased by EUR 58,568,190 for the 2022 financial year. 2. The costs arising from paragraph 1 shall be paid by means of a corresponding payment at the entry of the State's balance sheet of the remaining resources established pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 767 of Law No 145 of 30 December 2018; - Article 37-b is replaced by the following: Article 37-b (Use of administrative surpluses to cover higher charges arising from energy expenditure) 1. In Article 13 of Decree-Law No 4 of 27 January 2022, converted, with amendments, by Law No 25 of 28 March 2022, the following amendments are made: (a) in paragraph 4, the following period shall be added at the end: "For the year 2022, the resources referred to in this Article may be used to cover the increased costs resulting from the increase in electricity expenditure, not covered by specific State allocations, found with reference to the comparison between expenditure for the financial year 2022 and expenditure recorded for users and similar periods in 2019.'; (b) the following shall be inserted after paragraph 6: "6-a. The final verification referred to in Article 106 (1) of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020, converted, with amendments, by Law No 77 of 17 July 2020, does not entail new burdens on public finances.'........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u11	Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u12	Yes, Mr President, I intend to accept all the points that have been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u13	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March 2022 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u16	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it is a limit and a mistake on such decree-laws that we do not have a share of resources for Parliament's amendments, and I am also referring to the legal changes that may require a change in the amounts allocated upstream. Therefore, it has reduced our room for manoeuvre by not providing a budget for parliamentary amendments. As the latest economic measures have also shown, the conversion phase has returned much better. Putting Parliament under optimum working conditions therefore ensures that measures are more effective. With this in mind, the measure under consideration is to be seen in a path which has in the decree-law aid its most important pillar. The main merit is to have stopped the cost of fuel, which in those days of March had come to cost even 2.5 euros per liter, and then to have placed the emphasis on those areas and categories that required immediate help: the weakest social groups, the energy companies and those of the automotive sector. In this respect, the amendments concerning the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and the installment of bills for households are positive, and this goes hand in hand with the bonuses provided for in the aid decree-law. Also positive are the amendments on bureaucratic simplifications for photovoltaic systems and the one that extends the golden power to hydroelectric concessions, in order to avoid hostile acquisitions at a stage in which these areas are increasingly important for national and strategic interest. The amendment which increases the resources for the municipalities on the issue of unaccompanied minors, which unfortunately constitute a significant proportion of Ukrainian refugees, is also very important. The municipalities are in the front row in the management of an extraordinarily delicate phenomenon from the social point of view, of the integration and of the material and psychological support to children and children that the war has divided from their parents. On this point, it is significant that all the Groups have come forward with proposals, reflecting a shared sensitivity on the subject. Another central issue is the price updating mechanism for expensive materials. We too had proposed a six-monthly review of them. The phenomenon of companies that prefer to pay the penalty for exiting public calls is alarming, rather than being awarded a job because inflation has already eroded the margins of profit. Meanwhile, the Government intervened with the decree-aid law on the current year's price. The hope at this point is that inflation does not require a change in the general rule. As far as our Group's proposals are concerned, I would like to highlight a number of welcomes. The first opens up the possibility of the so-called generational relay in the labour market through bilateral solidarity funds. For now it is a beginning, the norm still needs to be improved in order to be able to function better. The second is very important (thanks to the Government for the sensitivity shown) and protects the prerogatives of autonomy regarding the distribution of the resources deriving from the extra profit of the subjects operating in the energy sector. On this front it regrets instead that IMU tax credit has not been granted also to the citizens of Trento and Bolzano who, as well, as well, pay a tax on the house, even if by us it is called municipal real estate tax (IMI) and in Trento simple real estate tax (IMIS). We will also propose this again in the future, because it is a matter of fairness and equal treatment between citizens. Again, Mr President, we must stress our proposals which have been taken up by other amendments that have been adopted. I am thinking of that for the actual granting of the tax credit in order to contain the negative effects on the stocking stocks in the textile, footwear and leather goods trade. I am also thinking of the very important one for the use of administrative surpluses to cover the increased costs of energy expenditure and also of the good compromise reached on the extension of moratoria, in the hope and expectation of a decisive intervention at European level, on which the Italian Government must assert its reasons. In conclusion, Mr President, we are now called upon to make every effort to ensure that the social issue does not explode in the autumn. With the country, however, we must also use words of truth: the months ahead will be difficult and not only for Italy. The aggression against Ukraine affects purchasing power in European countries, but it does even worse in Africa, where there is a real food crisis, with a possible chain effect on migratory flows. Regardless of the fate and duration of the conflict, globalisation is another victim. Even with all its distortions and contradictions, in the last quarter of the century it shaped our societies and production models, pushing us to overcome inefficiencies and to do better and better in the idea that everything had in power a market and a total audience. Faced with all this, the spectre of stagflation and the topic of the sustainability of our debt, as evidenced also by the growth of the spread and the rates of the Italian ten-year bonds, the only answer adapted to the challenge can come from Europe. Reform of the Treaties is no longer a taboo, as has been said these days. I really hope so, because we need a Europe that feeds the peace process, helping to restore what is enshrined in international standards, namely that the aggression of a free, democratic and sovereign country is inconceivable and unjustifiable. We need a Europe that, in doing so, takes a step forward in order not to disperse what good has been sown with the recovery fund, because without a new energy recovery we risk losing another vital game, such as the one for the environmental transition. The government continues to work on this front and to face an economic crisis that, never like this time, risks exploding as a social crisis. It is with these wishes that I announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u19	CRUCIOLI (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group I represent regards this measure as very negative and is very concerned about the positions taken by the Government. To believe that the economic effects of the crisis can be countered with an appropriation of only EUR 4 billion, which is the sum used with the measure being converted today, is like thinking that we can stop a tsunami with our hands. Compared to last January, the cost of energy has quadrupled, putting families and businesses in crisis, and inflation erodes the salaries of Italians, who are among the lowest in Europe: 4 million of our fellow citizens are unable to cope with the bills and more than 150,000 families will be evicted before the end of the current year. The situation is already very serious and, if we were to give up Russian gas, we would face the further loss of 4 points of GDP and the recession, that is, huge unemployment and widespread impoverishment. In the face of this disaster, the President-in-Office of the Council, at the press conference on 6 April (to be understood, that of: do you prefer peace or air conditioning?), he said: if they propose to us the embargo on Russian gas, we will be happy to follow. In the interview with the newspaper "Corriere della sera" of 17 April last, he then stated that the sacrifices required of Italians will be contained. It is clear that the President-in-Office of the Council is repeatedly lying to the Italians. The reality is that if the war continued and the Russian gas and oil embargo were to be reached, there would be no way of countering the economic effects of the crisis. For this reason too, as well as for ethical and humanitarian reasons, we consider the behaviour of this Government to be reckless and irresponsible, which, instead of promoting with every effort the albeit difficult diplomatic way, accepts with supine zeal the policy of escalation imposed by NATO. [[Applause]] Instead of promoting a peace conference that pursues a compromise between the parties, it sends weapons, increasing the risk of the conflict enlargement, and predicts significant increases in war costs over the coming years. It is clear that the government knows perfectly well that NATO's hegemony countries have no interest in finding a compromise leading to a ceasefire in a short time. Our Government knows this and executes the orders for the continuation of the conflict, precisely increasing the expenditure on arms and continuing to provide the Ukrainian armament militias with ever heavier and wide-ranging weapons. Draghi in America would also have ensured that a further contingent of Italian soldiers would be sent to the border, without any debate in Parliament. The further spy that the Government prepares for involvement in a long war, modifying and derogating also from the internal democratic order to cope with it, is however given precisely by some norms introduced by the decree-law in conversion, which have little or nothing to do with the contrast to the economic and humanitarian effects of the ongoing war. Let us take the fourth part of the decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, that already from the title denounces its own extraneousness to the object of the same, because it is titled: "Reinforcement of national security, defence and electronic communications networks" Well, Article 27 allocates EUR 1.3 million to build a strategic evaluation core to enhance the Council President's ability to exercise special powers, and also entrusts the President himself with the power to use the military of the Finance Guard. [[Applause]] We, the only opposition group left in this House, owe it to us to point out the anomaly of rules such as this, which, hidden in a cheatingly-called price-size decree, strengthen man's special powers only under command and derogate from the basic principles of order, allowing him to have a military core such as the Guarda di Finanza directly. However, other special powers are also conferred on the President-in-Office of the Council, for example Article 29 on cyber discipline, which provides for the possibility of disabling computer equipment or systems by way of derogation from any provision and in the absence of prior control of legitimacy. The same article also introduces derogations from the principle of erarial responsibility, safeguarding against actions for harm to those who abuse public money in the name of cybersecurity. It is also expected that the staff of the Cybersecurity Agency, recruited by way of derogation from the principles of public competition, can have long-term contracts, informing only the Copasir. As you can see, in the absolute silence of Parliament and the media, the government is preparing for war (and it is a long war that they expect) and it is prepared also by means of very deep derogations from the fundamental principles of our democratic order. We do not resign and do not accept the involvement in a war that is not inevitable and we oppose with every force this war-making government. We did so, for example, by presenting an agenda that required the government not to increase its expenditure on arms and to use that money to lower the bills to the Italians. Unfortunately, we will not even have the opportunity to discuss it in this House, because the government has put yet another trust, causing it to lapse. However, we insist and have tabled a motion that reiterates that commitment and that indicates to the Government the path to peace, through the promotion of a peace conference here in Rome and the stop to the sending of weapons. Of this motion we ask for the immediate debate, today or tomorrow, to let Italians know without infancy who is for peace only to chat and who is in fact. [[Applause]] Soon, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to vote whether to schedule this motion as a matter of urgency or do as Pontius Pilate, wash his hands and leave a blank card to the government. In conclusion, we believe that those who want peace must act peacefully and not prepare for war. We also believe that in order to counter the economic effects of war, the only way is to put an end to it and not to vote on measures that place, step by step and hidden, the country in a war order, like the one in question today. For these reasons, we will deny more than ever the confidence to this stealthy and enslaved Government, voting against the conversion of today's decree-law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u22	MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mrs Subsecretaria di Stato, the practice is that I should be called here to express, on behalf of Italy Viva-PSI, the intention of my Group to vote. In doing so I should therefore focus on the good things that in this decree-law have been inserted or modified on a proposal from Italia Viva-PSI, which are not few and who leave us partially satisfied. I should therefore like to talk about the fuel bonus, which can now be paid to employees not only by private companies, but also by freelancers: 200 euros that do not contribute to the formation of income at this difficult time for expensive fuels. I could talk about the administrative simplifications we have achieved for the construction of passive infrastructures, such as poles, towers and towers for the installation of new technology communication systems, increasingly indispensable in a world that makes digital a flywheel of progress. Here, however, let me open a small parenthesis on the mystifications that have been implemented in the general debate by a colleague of the 5 Stars and let us make it clear. It is not true that the ARPA authorization is removed: simply, there will be no increase for the municipalities, no circumvention of the existing rules and no lowering of the protection of the population. This is only a useful simplification that is fully consistent with the evolution of the telecommunications market and the digitalisation needs of the country; it is consistent with the PNRR and the planned digital transformation. Colleagues, studying is not sin, modernization is not sin. I should like to talk about the compromise reached on the quality certification of companies that get building bonuses to avoid illegal fraud and treatment of employed workers, contrary to current legislation. We wanted something better, but we know that politics is also a balance between different demands. I should like to talk about the extraordinary one-year extension of the terms of effectiveness of building titles or, in any case, the acts legitimizing the interventions themselves in view of the difficulty in supplying materials; the reduction in VAT in the transport sector; the extension of the time limits for the repayment of sums paid to small and medium-sized enterprises to support companies; and, again, the support for the theatre sector with the suspension of payments due in April, May and June; the withholding taxes on employees' incomes and VAT for those who manage theatres, concert halls and other artistic structures. It is an important measure for a sector hit hard during the emergency, which my Group has proposed to support with this initiative. Moreover, I would like to point out that our amendment adopted in the dossier is 22.0.33 and not the one reworded (22.0.63). I should also like to talk about other issues, which my colleague, Mrs Evangelista, has already explained in a widespread and comprehensive manner in yesterday's speech. In short, Mr President, I could talk about how Italy Viva has helped to improve the measure, as other Members have said they have contributed with their proposals, but if I did this, if I confine myself to this, as the practice wants, I would disregard everything behind this work. Well, if I didn't do that, my intervention would be sloppy, incomplete. We cannot just talk about merit, Mr President. In this case, with what we have seen, we must also talk about method. I am certainly not here to praise Parliamentarianism in vain, but I do not want to mention the epitaph of it either. I have been sitting in these bars long enough to be able to say, without any danger of being denied, that what happened during the adoption of this measure I had never seen it. I had seen, over the last three or four years, a slow and progressive compression of the prerogatives of the individual Member of Parliament, but never in this way, with reworded amendments not in the Commission of merit, chosen from the pile of reported ones without a somehow understandable ratio, which can explain why an amendment could benefit from an investigation and another no. Are there any A and B amendments? If so, I wonder who decides the discrimination, because amendments which are considered important for a political group, which have been identified as such, have not even been able to benefit from a governmental inquiry and have been affected by their approval. It is unacceptable for the government to decide whether to give opinions or not. It is unacceptable that opinions should be given without even understanding the ratio of the amendment: negative opinions, but based on an interpretation diametrically opposed to the spirit of the norm, as happened in a case by the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior. Either the norm has not been read or it has not been understood, with obnoxious attitudes, between approximation and prejudice. Legislative action is also aimed at changing the regulatory framework and so how can we give an opinion by anchoring itself to the pre-judgment of the immutability of the regulatory framework that we want or need to change? From this point of view, there is a space for the action of offices and there is a space for the action of politics and the second cannot and must not be subordinate to the first, except within the limits set by our order. Are we going to face up to the ambitious challenges that we have set ourselves, for example, for the activation of the PNRR, with offices that have this modus agendi? Certainly there have also been virtuous and commendable examples of self-denial at work, in the chaos that had come to be determined, but we would hope that this would not be the norm, but certainly not the exception. What, then, about the role and role of the rapporteur, who has been compressed and transformed, without his fault, by dominus of the measure separately between the parties? All of this, Madam President, is a vulnus with respect to the form of parliamentary government, which hinges on our system, with a dangerous overthrow, which erodes the foundations of our order. It is a "executive centre" that breaks the delicate balance between the role of direction and control, proper to Parliament, and the executive role, proper to the Government. Do not tell me that this comes from the emergency, the urgency and the eagerness to approve the measure. No concern, even this time, because only one branch of Parliament will make a true reading of the measure, in an alternate monocameralism, which has now become the practice of our system. We in the second Chamber wanted to transform it from the point of view of competence, you abolished it in fact and these, the facts, cannot be silenced, if we consider that precisely in emergencies they have forged, in the course of history, changes in the democratic form that have led to the transformation of institutional structures. It is almost never a quick and sudden action that historically leads to the advent of illiberal structures, but a fertile substratum, nourished by slow and progressive weakenings of the democratic form. What seems to be normal by now, we cannot accept it as such. This time it is I who break the practice, because I am not addressing you, Madam President, but all my colleagues, who are members of this branch of Parliament: either we rise immediately, as representatives and representatives of democracy and parliamentary democracy, or we will give inch at a time, petal after petal of an ever more withered flower, one amendment after another, until defeat. So either we really rise now, as a collective, or we will be annihilated individually. I had to do so, Madam President, to get back to the rules, or we will be crushed by the facts: this teaches us history and this is the reasoning I felt I had to express. On the substance, however, with the comments I made at the beginning of the speech, I express the favourable opinion of Italy Viva-PSI. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u25	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, do I take the floor after two opposition speeches, or am I mistaken, Mr Marino? We have heard what should be a majority force to do an intervention on trust that really seems to include a further political component among the oppositions to this Government. What I want to stress is that Parliament's crisis is becoming increasingly marked here today and that it is defining in a very worrying way almost a conflict between parliamentarism, which is the basis of our Constitution, and those who, on the other hand, to the Government in a hierarchical and autocratic way interpret the way in which they play their role. You see, President, today we are having to discuss trust in one of the many decrees law, those many analgesic decrees that are responding to the drama of this period, and we are doing it with the forty-ninth - if I haven't hurt the accounts - confidence. So we're about to get to 50 trusts, something unheard of and unacceptable. I would like to devote at least a few seconds of my speech to some positive aspects. But, before entering into the substance of the provisions that Brothers of Italy managed to obtain in this decree-law, I want to thank those who put their faces on us. I would like to thank the Presidents of the two Commissions, Senators Girotto and D'Alfonso, who had to put their face on a path of work that has seen Parliament de facto deported - as I shall explain - its role. My thanks also go to the two Undersecretaries, to the Undersecretary of War and to the Undersecretary of Freni, who took part in the confrontations in the Commission and tried to give a moment of comfort to those parliamentarians who see themselves expropriated of their role. You must know - but the Italians must know - that to support this Government, that is to give the vote of confidence to this Government - as colleagues are also going to do that in the explanations of vote, not to say in the statements outside the Chamber, express the greatest criticism of the Government - means to remember that the parliamentary committees are not able to carry out their work. We arrived here on Sunday afternoon at 6 p.m., full of good will, leaving our families, to work and modify a government provision. We stayed until 3:00 in the morning in Commissions 6th and 10th gathered to try to do this. Well, we started working and at that time we began to vote on amendments which, in fact, were not even made known to us. Normally, it is required that there are at least 24 hours to be able to work on the amendments. Instead, the rewordings arrived, in fact, at the time of the vote. Therefore, Parliament has been deprived of its role. I would like the President of the Republic, as an expert and defender of the Constitution, to give a signal, because it is unacceptable, Mr President, that the Commissions and Members of Parliament cannot do their job. Learning about reworded amendments when we have to start voting means that we cannot do our job, or at least vote on the amendments not out of knowledge of them, but perhaps depending on whether they are the majority or the opposition. That would be enough, ladies and gentlemen, to explain why Brothers of Italy confirms - as it has done since the beginning - its no to this Government which has really laid a tombstone on the role and functions of our Parliament. This, however, is a decree-law that also from a technical point of view expresses its own inconsistency. We must remember, Mr President, that the cover of this decree is absolutely sloppy and inconsistent. But we know - we have also read the comments - that everything is at risk of appeals, because you are using the taxation of over-use, that in itself can also be an acceptable and acceptable thing at a time like the current one, but only so long as you actually tax over-use. But when, in order to tax over-use, it is shown that it does not even know the most basic rules of accounting, that it does not even know the difference between profit and the taxable VAT, and therefore perhaps we end up taxing excise duties; when the Government of the best, Mr President, taxes excise duties, it means that it understands nothing about accounting; it means that it does not know the VAT law; That means he's making fun of the Italian business system. [[Applause]] These are the covers? Then, however, when Brothers of Italy responsibly appeals to the majority, asking that, to cover measures of importance and weight for the development of the country, consider the tax feedbacks of the norms, the Accounting tells us that we cannot. Thus, cover may be used which is likely to be rejected by the bodies of jurisprudence and justice, but tax feedback cannot be considered. This is what the government of the best is doing. This is Parliament's mockery, but even more so than the Italians. Nevertheless, Brothers of Italy tried to remedy the inconsistency in the content, coverage and form of the decree, trying to bring to the analgesic provided some positivity. For this I thank my fellow Members who have supported us; - I thank the President and the Undersecretaries who - as I said before understood the frustration of Parliament and also the constructive and proactive motivations that a political force like the Brothers of Italy wanted to bring in its criticism to a measure in the interest of the country. We are therefore pleased and proud to say that, thanks to us, we have come to a measure that allows us to retrodate the effects of the postponement of deadlines for illness and injury of professionals at the beginning of the emergency Covid, and therefore at 31 January 2020, thus covering those who were at risk of sanctions for having fallen ill in the first year of Covid, which is the worst. We therefore thank the Government for accepting this commitment. We are proud to have obtained an extension in the evaluation of the notices of irregularities from thirty to sixty days of the deadline to pay or contest the notices of irregularities of the Revenue Agency, responding to requests from both employees of the Agency and fellow accountants and, therefore, of taxpayers we are proud. We are proud - and I appreciate that also Senator Marino, president of a majority force, said this in his speech - to have obtained that the fuel bonus is extended to all private employers and not just to companies. However, we remind the Government that companies are not the whole economic world and, therefore, now also professional studies will be able to enjoy this bonus. I conclude, Mr President, by reminding the Government of a commitment, at least that, and I address the correctness of the Secretary of State for War: a demanding agenda has been signed for the Government in the first useful decree on energy, to reopen the research and exploration of gas in order to achieve energy autonomy. It was a commitment that the Government made with Brothers of Italy and with Italians to restore certainties to their future. We hope that that commitment that the Government has made without if and without but with us and the Italians will be respected. I conclude, in the light of the arguments put forward, with the denial of the trust of Brothers of Italy to this inconsistent and almost ridiculous analgesic provision for Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the measure that we are preparing to vote through confidence is the second measure that takes place, after the start of the Ukrainian crisis, in order to put in place a series of economic and humanitarian measures. 13:36 (De PETRIS follow-up). Moreover, a few days ago, the Government hesitated to take another much larger measure with regard to aid and support for families and businesses. All of us have considered these measures to be absolutely urgent and we are well aware that we are on a ground which seeks - it could not be otherwise - to deal with a very serious and serious situation. I'll put some questions right away. I think that we must be very careful and consider that they are buffer measures, which obviously help as much as possible. I am thinking - for example - of reducing excise duties and VAT, of very important issues also to help families in this decree-law with regard to the bonus bills up to 12,000 euros. In the new decree there will also be the bonus of 200 euros. I'm still thinking about the extra profits I'll come back to. There are a number of measures, and many others that we could list here, which are certainly positive. We all know, however, that we are faced with a situation that risks being also in the coming days and in the coming weeks increasingly serious. I call on the Government, which I hope will be well aware of, to point out that we will increasingly face a very serious crisis and social impact. Not only must we be aware of this, but we must take the measures and understand exactly what kind of instruments we are putting in place; otherwise we risk, in an inflation process that is now quite heavy in place, entering a serious situation of recession that people, families, the classes that already have difficulties and come from a difficult situation like that of the pandemic. Not to mention the impact of the energy crisis. In this respect, there are measures that I do not mention, but they are another small piece that we put on and that we have all shared; these are further simplifications with regard to renewables and the production of electricity from biogas, a number of measures that are added to the others, although on this issue we need to be very clear. Yesterday President Draghi at the press conference said something. To this energy crisis we must answer without any doubt, without hesitation, not further binding ourselves, also through the diversification of dependence, to other countries with which to make contracts for gas. We must make a very powerful effort, yes by realizing - this - the emergency and exceptional, investing and accelerating the green transition process; therefore simplification on renewable energy sources. I would like to return to an issue on which we had tabled an amendment. We have appointed extraordinary commissioners on everything: on a small piece of road, on a small piece of purifier, on a small piece of this one. I think, however, in a situation like this - that is the road we had indicated in the PNRR and through the plan for the ecological transition-PTE - the government must absolutely decide to appoint an extraordinary commissioner structure to do this type of operation. And do not tell me - this is part of the propaganda - that we are now in this situation because we have made the wrong choices. Yes, it is true, in the sense that we have lost twenty years not to speed up on this front: that is the real point. I come back to place some data here again: in 2014 - not surprisingly - when there was the invasion of Crimea, we began to decelerate a lot on renewables and to accelerate powerfully on the dependence on Russian gas. These are data. Therefore, we want to reproach those who have always raised the question of the ecological transition and the conversion of having focused on renewables, indicating it as responsible for this situation, when obviously the causes are others. It is precisely at this juncture of the emergency that we must have clear where we want to go. There are certainly other issues on which we had tabled amendments. Beyond the medium-term application of the extra profit tax, it is not possible, in a situation in which small and medium-sized enterprises close for the enormous cost of energy and families are in great pain and risk having to choose whether to pay the rent, make the shopping or pay the bill, that some have maxi profits. And, be careful, financial speculation on energy began long before the crisis stemming from the Russian occupation in Ukraine. The rule provides for taxing extra profits of 10%, but it is clear to everyone that this levy cannot be sufficient. There are those who really have accumulated profits on profits and then there is a whole other part in great suffering, which must not be underestimated at all. I note that, in the end, our work has been aimed at improving the text and incorporating rules that were intended to simplify renewables, to help - for example with our amendment - the installment of bills for domestic users, and therefore for families; to support the company and promote the redevelopment of enterprises through the SOA certification, as regards the building bonus. There are other clear rules that we have introduced, in order to avoid, after blocking the assets of the oligarchs, that Italian citizens have to pay for their maintenance and management. We have also tabled a clear rule on this. We could list other rules, i.e. those relating to school. In short, we have introduced rules which certainly help, even without - and I must say - any resources available to Parliament. But it is clear that we are in a situation where we cannot continue to produce decree-laws on decree-laws in this way. We must address this issue once and for all, taking the opportunity of the crisis to take a step forward in the area of self-sufficiency and energy independence. The theme, which is the background, and is ours on these decrees is the following: either our country, in the front line, makes itself available to build a negotiating path, to arrive at the ceasefire and conclude the path of peace with a conference on security, which we have talked about from these benches, on the model of Helsinki; or we will not be able to cope with the situation, which will become increasingly difficult. Mr President, I conclude with a note that other colleagues - like Mr Marino - have developed far more than I have. I say once and for all that - in my opinion - we have gone beyond the limit. When a constitutional reform was introduced, I said that we wanted to put Parliament in an ancillary position. But now we have also passed the ancillary position. It is no longer possible to think of moving forward with confidence when, on a linear path, as in this case, we would have voted on all the amendments in this House, taking a simple path, and we would have finished the work on the decree long before the question of trust. Once and for all, Parliament and this House must put this issue clearly. Everyone must return to the task that the Constitution dictates to him: Parliament, Parliament; the Government, the Government, and the offices must go back to making offices. This is the only way to deal with a situation that will be ever more serious, emergency and serious. And it is the only way not only to give centrality back to Parliament - as President Mattarella reminded us - but also to really make a serious contribution to our country in such a difficult situation as the one we are experiencing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u31	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank those who have spoken before me, because they have worked on the subject with a good deal of point of view and also because they have taken the responsibility of making clear what has happened. If I had to explain and present this decree-law in his life of conversion, I would say that it is a better decree-law, in the sense that it is a decree-law that, with the work of Parliament, shows itself capable of helping the reaction of our system in the face of repeated attacks. First we suffered the attack, a rupture of civilization, of the pandemic. Now we have another rupture of civilizations, which comes from war and also from a predictable exodus of biblical consistency that will come from everywhere, where there is the victory of fear and destruction. Because of this, the economy has its reactions, wrong and emotional, but the economy is a dead hand, as one might say by borrowing the expression. We, through regulatory activity, try to contain and mitigate relapses, risks, dangers, damage, and further pain. This decree-law, through the conversion work put in place by the Commissions, gives a possible response regarding the containment of the increase of the costs of gasoline, acting on the institute of the excise duty. And the responsibility is to facilitate the purchase of petrol by all the interested categories: from the family to the economic operator. There is also an issue concerning the operation of municipal social structures as regards the cost of energy. Think about what is happening for the continuous operation and exercise of swimming pools in small, medium and large municipalities. There is also a response to the question of self-production of energy, making sure that businesses know how to make it easier. This is the issue of simplification. It should be the figure of the relationship between the legal system and society, between the legal system and the economy, even when we come back to regulation several times. On this there is a masterful chapter, the one concerning the regeneration of living energy and seismic resistance: we have made such a quantity of rules that we must now put in order, without losing the ability to function with simplicity. And even in this normative site we work hard to try to recover a bit 'of simplicity. Once an authoritative magistrate of the Council of State, very dear to me, explained that, when a norm is not understood, it is badly done; when it is not simple in its application, it must absolutely be medicated; and we must intervene on some regulatory activities in terms of medication. This lends me the side to a reflection that I want to do respectfully. I believe in the fact that the administrations know and have to do the investigation. How does the regulatory itinerary work? The norm, at the end of its journey, must produce a virtuous course of those who must adapt, that is, the members of the community, those who produce wealth. However, the rule, in order to help the emergence of virtuous behavior, must be easy to apply; it must be worked; it must be nourished by real life. The behaviour of Parliament's parliamentarians and collegial bodies helps the regulatory product when it starts from the government - in those exceptional moments when it should start from the government - to recover realism and adequacy with respect to reality, knowledge of reality. Here are the amendments, which have the improvement saving. The amendment cannot be treated as an annoyance. I must say that the representatives of the Government who have come to accompany this construction site have helped, have done their utmost, have made it possible to represent a bridge linking Parliament's site and the ministerial sites. 13:52 (Followed by ALFONSO). Allow me, however, to say that there is nothing better than an ironic reflection: we cannot entrust to the view of a computer, with its "inoltra" and "receive" the investigative activity, which requires intellectual dedication, penetration. I come from the Region of Silvio Spaventa, which among other things we celebrate because two hundred years have passed since its birth. Scared was a man of justice and public works. When he made bridges and railways, he explained that, in order for a project to do well the infrastructure, it is necessary to nourish the geological relationship, the investigative activity; it is not that the geological faldon is on the table and by itself, magically, gives the investigation to the technical part. It takes seam, composition, composition, and all this is done by the human mind. The justification is the normative bombardment, the bombardment of decree-laws, the very special situation. Beware, however, that this posture does not become traditional, so the amendments are annoying, the walkway is in its fastest linearity and the original text cannot be enriched. We have succeeded in making improvements: for example, that concerning simplification on the self-production of sustainable and renewable energy; that concerning the aid to municipal life, so that in the accounting documents the municipality could also use the administrative surpluses. The distinction between the surplus of administration and ordinary administration can be overcome, because there is war, there is the rupture of civilizations. This amendment should be accompanied by applause and not by an almost blunt rereading. The same applies, ladies and gentlemen, also to everything we have put in place in the inclusion of other sources of energy supply alongside natural gas. It is a coordinated and comprehensive vision. The first to place the theme that we would sooner or later face a major energy planetary emergency was Rifkin, who reminded us that a lateral, reticular approach of thought would be necessary, that it did not neglect anything and we arrived there. Mr De Petris, who spoke earlier, has done well to say that these are emerging solutions and now we have to work for the long term, to ensure that the accompaniment to the transition really succeeds. I am also very pleased with an amendment which was born in the name of the knowledge of the life of the Municipalities, which allows the merger of large Municipalities to make them able to provide services and accompany life projects. The Commune was even born with God, before the thrones invented by man. The municipality, however, if it also accompanies the evolution of the demand for growth that comes from the real life of the communities, it must be enlarged. There is an amendment on which all the senators have worked, which I thank, which has received a favourable opinion. It took courage, mental commitment and cultural freedom to understand the amendment, also giving it financial cover. In the same way, I am pleased with an amendment that I think makes us greet Chomsky, the great American linguist, who says that, when there are wars, not weapons but the capable of teaching and education. The Rampi amendment allows to keep alive the rankings of all fit to be used for the great demand for training coming from the country. The amendment helps the Italian system and should not be treated as if it were saliva or rainwater in the gutters, but should be worked with a welcoming attitude. These are the reasons why I am satisfied. It's an improvement order. We still have a lot of work to do, and we know that if we get together, we can. In the Joint Committees, the vote was unanimous on 99% of the issues discussed. Therefore, the Democratic Party will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u34	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on 24 February 2022 it is a date which, unfortunately, history books will be among the darkest pages of this early century. It is a date that marks the beginning of a bloody war in Ukraine and the end of a period of peace in the continent that lasted decades, with economic and social repercussions that immediately became felt in our country. As the days pass, among the Italians the concern for an extension of the conflict is combined with the most tangible one for the rise in prices, beginning with those of energy; the surge started about a year ago, well before the outbreak of the war, but exacerbated by the conflict in progress. Suffice it to say that in the first quarter of 2022, compared to the first quarter of last year, there was an increase of 131 percent on household electricity and 94 percent on gas. These are indicative data reflected in the macroeconomic framework reported by the recently approved DEF where - as I recall - GDP growth is expected to tend to fall by 1.8 percentage points compared to last September by NADEF, and where the figure of inflation at 5.6% is representative of the crisis we are experiencing. This is a scenario that we still do not know when and how much it will change. The situation is not predictable at all. In the face of this new emergency, with high energy costs and in the face of periods in which inflation is expected to increase, since the beginning of the year the government has activated putting in place new decree-laws to support families and enterprises, assigning first 4 billion, now 6.5 billion and in the next decree being approved - which we hope will see the light as soon as possible - an additional 12 billion. They are important resources, allocated without any budgetary deviation and without creating further public debt, which we know is useful for giving first answers to citizens, but which certainly will not be able to meet all the needs and serious difficulties in the country. Will a new budgetary deviation be needed? It's very likely. [[Applause]] However, we must first define and quantify the measures we want to take because today's debt burden on the younger generation must be targeted actions that generate multiplier effects. If the Count Governments have sailed on sight, both before and during the pandemic, the Dragon Government has immediately adopted a different approach. Now the answers to the emergency run hand in hand with those relating to the medium and long term. Forza Italia has always advanced its proposals following this vision and thinking of the Italy of the future. To look to the future we must also intervene on the immediate, having clear the picture of the economic and social system of the country today. Take, for example, our business fabric, which consists of about 95% micro-enterprises, 4.85% small and medium-sized enterprises and the remaining 0.09% large enterprises. What do they need today? First of all, liquidity and bureaucratic simplification. [[Applause]] Forza Italia has been repeating this since the beginning of the pandemic. Even during the examination of this decree-law, despite the difficulties that arose in the Commission in connection with the procedural procedures, with the opinions of the Ministries who arrived at the last minute, and also with respect to assessments of the Accounting Office which amaze the fact of going beyond the technical opinion, Forza Italia has nevertheless fought to give the companies the opportunity to take advantage of a further moratorium on loans and, while waiting for Europe to express itself on State aid, proposed and obtained that there was at least an extension of the reimbursements of pre-mortizations. In the same way Forza Italia has carried out, among others, measures in support of liquidity for the agricultural sector and the theatre sector; measures in favour of the simplification of procedures related to photovoltaics; measures to increase the production of electricity from biogas with plants already in place and measures for the very important extension of public land concessions. But it's not enough. Strengthening our economic realities means knowing how to qualify and enhance them, so that they can face the challenges that transitions require. Our strength lies in Made in Italy, a brand that is among the first in the world, and on this we must leverage. [[Applause]] Qualifying the enterprise means qualifying work and production. The Government must promote and encourage the benefits of each individual company in the appropriate ways and times; certain and effective rules are needed today, in the future. Forza Italia combines the sale of the credits also for the reduction of the costs of the energy and the gas for the enterprises, but these cessions, analogous to those of the superbonus, must be modified in order to be effective. The sale to banks' customers should also be allowed during the first steps, in order to avoid the collapse of the system. We are at a stage in which - we repeat - the measure put in place by the superbonus, which - as we have been saying for some time - had to be set differently, cannot now be interrupted, under penalty of the failure of hundreds and hundreds of companies, with harmful employment consequences that we cannot afford. It will be the next decree to determine the extension of the expiration of the SAL to the 30 june and in this next decree will have to exist also, inevitably, the finally definitive and adequate update of the passages of the cession of the credit. We are living a page of our history that is testing families and businesses. Never before must parties set aside their own colors and reason on the most appropriate solution for the needs that lie ahead. The world of work calls for help; flexibility is needed. The example we have seen these days is the alarm in the tourism sector due to the lack of seasonal workers. Forza Italia has always had its own recipe: to review the income of citizenship and introduce vouchers. [[Applause]] We must reverse the vision imposed so far on a political side, in which the culture of prevarication assistance to replace that of work. It is not acceptable for companies to be put in difficulty even because of the lack of staff, despite the large unemployment, especially in certain sections of the population. [[Applause]] On this the government and the majority, which I remember being broad to solve the emergencies of the country - and if this is not an emergency, what is it? - action must be taken to promote measures aimed at enhancing the culture of work - on the one hand - and workers - on the other - by measures which take account of the difficulties faced by companies in offering continuous work, but also and above all by structural measures such as the reduction of the tax wedge in order to increase the wage pay of workers, because this is how wages must be increased and because this gives more purchasing power to all, families and workers. [[Applause]] During the most difficult phase of the pandemic there was the refrain: everyone is saved or nobody is saved; we must not forget it even in this new emergency, where families, the world of associationism, enterprise, sport, culture, school, must all be supported without neglecting anyone. In the same way, the European Union, which at the time of the pandemic has finally reacted in accordance with the European spirit of community, giving us a different, unambiguous, stronger vision of it, must now continue to give adequate answers for the benefit of each individual country, not only for the immediate, but also in the perspective of future new geopolitical scenarios that are emerging. The urgent needs concern the non-deferable revision of the Stability Pact, adapting its mechanisms to the new realities, the imposition of a roof at the price of gas, the renewal of State aid, and also the revision of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan in view of the changed international scenarios, because the PNRR, in the complex and critical context of the current situation, is the opportunity that can truly serve as a support and compass also to overcome contingent difficulties. Our country, which is now recognized as the central role it deserves, must continue to consolidate relations both in Europe and internationally, as it has done to date by closing important agreements for the supply of gas, with the aim of making us autonomous and creating new strategic assets for our markets, also compared to the latest worrying news from Ukraine regarding the reduction of a third of the gas flow. Therefore, certain of the authority with which our country is facing today's challenges in the future, Forza Italia renews its trust in the Government Dragons. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u37	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to make my explanation of vote - which will be in any case in favour - in writing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u38	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u41	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, pending the arrival of Mr Dell'Olio, I would like to ask for a suspension of the president's work for a few minutes. Senator, I see the senator entering the Chamber now.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u44	OIL (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators and fellow senators, we are here today to discuss and approve Decree-Law No 21 of 2022 on urgent measures to counter the economic and humanitarian effects of the Ukrainian crisis. President, there is a bit too much buzz in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I think there are conditions for us to continue. You're welcome. OIL (M5S). In the last two years, all the decree-laws that have been converted are part of a path of support and support for businesses and citizens. In this decree-law, even if in the title we find the word "ukraina", we do not speak of war: we speak in two or three articles of support to people who are coming to Italy and for the rest we intervene to support companies and businesses and it is the reason why, journalistically, the provision is called a price-cutting decree. These measures are therefore part of a process in perspective, started with the decree support ter and continued with the decree energy, which was approved, with the decree excise duty, whose measures then entered into the measure under consideration, and with the decree-law aid, which will come out in days. There are therefore many issues relating to citizens and businesses. Let us take a few examples: we intervene on excise duties for the purchase of fuel and gas, we intervene with a bonus from the private employers for the fuel and with a credit for the companies to buy energy and gas, we intervene on the tax credit for the companies energy and gas, on the installment of the bills, on the guarantee fund for the small and medium enterprises, increasing the bonuses for the families, with the social bonus electricity and gas, and with a whole series of other measures regarding the road haulage, the agriculture, the fishing and the tourism. Although the measure under consideration was issued some 50 days ago, it was partly exceeded by the aid decree, because the incentives for energy companies were increased under this measure and the same thing happens with regard to the measure of the reduction of excise duties on petrol and diesel. This way of operating, for a few years now, with a surplus of decree-laws, is a normal modus operandi, if we want, also taking into account the fact that we are coming out of the epidemic from Covid-19, but we are not yet completely out of it, and that we have a war at 1,600 kilometers away. All this, however, also makes us understand how clear the footprint of the Movimento 5 Stars is, both within the decree-law under consideration and in the subsequent ones, because some of the amendments that we have tabled here are already within the decree-law aid that will arrive and we are pleased with that. Let's take some examples: the passage to September 30 of the deadline to carry out 30% of the work with the superbonus for single-family housing or the possibility for the credit companies to give credit to their accountants, directly and without waiting for the four disposals, which we had already asked within the decree support ter, which has been inserted in the decree energy and now has been corrected, after a series of comparisons with the Government. We also think of the increase in tax credit for energy companies, the shift in taxation from 10% to 25% of the extra profits, through the excise-law decree, which enters into the aid decree, or even the extension of the blockage of excise duties on fuels. All these were amending proposals of the Movimento 5 Stars, which entered into the decree-law aid and therefore were not approved within the decree-law under consideration. As Movimento 5 Stars we can therefore be satisfied, because they are victories for citizens: we care that good things are done for Italy and for citizens and it does not matter whether or not they are done thanks to amendments. This does not alter the fact that we are also satisfied with some of the amendments that have been adopted in the Decree-Law under consideration and I would like to mention three in particular. Firstly, there is the rule that allows to increase the level of energy production for farms from agricultural biogas: in this way we can increase, at zero cost for the State, the level of production, up to about 600 million cubic metres. This is an increase of 20%, without intervening on the costs for the state and taxpayers. This means reducing supply from abroad and also reducing the use of fossil fuels. Another amendment that I would like to mention is the one that allows renewable energy installations to be installed within the areas of prospect of some industrial areas, whose distance is increased from 300 to 500 meters, and from 150 to 300 meters for the areas adjacent to the motorway network: it is little, if we want, but this means for companies to be able to install renewable energy plants, having available energy at low cost and on site. The last amendment I would like to refer to is the one on the regulation of golden power. For those who do not know and for those who listen to us we are talking about that measure that allows governments to intervene in the event of the transfer of an infrastructure or a strategic society for the state. Thanks to an amendment of the 5-star Movimento, at the first signature of Senator Cioffi, the regulation of the golden power has been extended, also at the level of concessions, for transport, communications and energy, in particular for the hydroelectric. We remember that it was born for the works of great hydroelectric derivation and is fundamental, in this phase of changes, to give support to the State in order to have the pulse of the situation. All these amendments - and I would like to reiterate this - are at zero cost to the State and to taxpayers, not because we do not have to spend, because we are for an expansionary policy, but there was no room for expenditure in this decree. Let us remember that for us debt, if it is a good debt, can and must be done, because it helps to make the state grow. There is one last point I would like to make, Mr President, which is interesting and worrying at the same time. In the decree-law, in Articles 3, 4 and 9, the Government has inserted the possibility for the companies energetic and gasivore to yield the tax credits, essentially aligning the norm to that that had proposed the Movimento 5 Stars for the building bonuses. Therefore, the Government introduces within the decree-law, in the basic text, something that recognizes in fact that the measure that the Movimento 5 Stars was determined to create with the superbonus is fine: this is positive, but the worrying aspect that I do not understand is why the Government has so far opposed this measure. I do not understand why the government should go to Europe to say that it is a measure that does not work, when there is also a letter from President von der Leyen saying that it is an important and interesting measure, and then to insert within the basic text the same measure, which comes from that principle of transferability of tax credit that carried forward the Movimento 5 Stars. I can only hope that it is an awareness of the fact that it is a mechanism that serves and I hope at this point that the Government wants to take that further step that serves the country, that is to indicate to the credit companies to support the building companies, continue to buy the credits that exist on the market and maybe even push Italian Posts, that today has decided to buy only from the private citizens, to buy also from the enterprises, in order to free the existing stock of tax credits in possession of the credit companies and allow them to intervene on the market, because the market of the building must not be stopped. In this regard, I would remind you that we are boasting in Europe of the increase of 6,6% of GDP in 2021; it is good to know that this increase, for 1% of that 6,6%, is due to the construction sector. We are saying that 15% of that increase is given by the construction sector, which has been reborn with this measure. This is important, because it was done without soil consumption. The building market has broken down and now needs not to stop. I close, President, with one last statement: in this, as in all the decrees law, there are lights and shadows. For some political groups it is well written, for others it is bad; some parts are good for one, or they are corrected at the stage of parliamentary amendments. We have seen that this decree is already partially passed by the aid decree, but it is nevertheless an important measure for citizens and businesses. That is why I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u46	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u47	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, in America, Mario Draghi told another false truth. "Putin thought to divide us, but failed," he said.It is not that Putin thought to divide us, it is we who are divided and the reason is all too obvious: peculia non olet. Europe is divided because serious governments think about the interests of their own national economies, if they do not have bankers of Goldman Sachs imposed from outside to lead the state. It is becoming increasingly clear that Europe is a project that cannot last long and that Italy would do well to think about its sovereignty and how to get out of it. I'll tell you a truth that you don't like: Putin has woven a plot of industrial relations, playing at best its own energy player cards. We have all accepted the conditions of the game and the nature of the player and now we do not want to pay the bill of the game and we embrace, even weaker, in the courtyard of the White House. [[Applause]] Dragons is here for this and it is here with the halo that the sovereignist parties have put him in the lead in alliance with the PD. In Germany so far they have been more covered, for weeks that the German Chancellor, in agreement with industrialists and trade unions, warns that they will not do without Russian gas and that they will have no problem paying in rubles. Only in Italy did the majority and the Government continue to tell lies to citizens about miraculous agreements. Meanwhile, our companies opened up current accounts to pay in rubles, because one account is propaganda and another is business. The subjection of the Dragons Government towards Biden is total; moreover, the American President himself does not make it mysterious: we must free Italy from dependence on Russian energy. But who's in charge of Palazzo Chigi? Biden or Dragons? Biden through Dragons, of course. Under the eyes of the government, we are closing agreements to be even more dependent on American companies. After Big Pharma vaccines, now liquid gas and soon we will find out how much money ours will end up buying weapons and equipment made in the USA. On April 15, Di Maio tweeted: "We cannot submit to the blackmail of the payment of gas in rubles." Now that they will pay in rubles, he could also go back to selling drinks at the stadium in euros and you could carry behind the chameleontic Count, who is said to agree with Professor Orsini and then takes out Petrocelli, who is even more moderate than the heretic professor. Speaking of inexplicable choices, we give weapons to Ukraine and they shut us down. Congratulations! Italexit will vote no to this decree and yet another non-democratic vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u48	Before moving to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), I warn that Senator Crucioli has requested, pursuant to Rule 157 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, that the date of discussion of motion 1-00486 at his first signature be established by the Senate. In such a case, the Assembly, after hearing the Government and one of the proposers, shall decide without discussion, by vote by show of hands, fixing, if necessary, the additional session pursuant to paragraph 7 of Rule 55. The text of the motion is distributed. I ask Senator Crucioli if he intends to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u49	Mr President, I intend to speak both to briefly explain the motion and to explain the reasons for the urgency of the motion. With regard to the content, with this motion we call for Parliament to express itself on some fundamental issues, I would say of vital importance: the first is that Parliament immediately promotes a peace conference here in Rome or in other cities; the second is the stop to the sending of weapons of any kind on Ukrainian soil; the third is to avoid an enlargement of NATO to other countries that could provoke further reactions from the Russian Federation; the fifth is to indicate to the Government the stop of the increase in expenditure on armaments for the next few years. As for the reasons for the urgency, we ask you to schedule it as early as this afternoon or tomorrow. Even those who voted in first place for the sending of arms to Ukraine - and we are not among them - at a time when they thought it necessary, because the siege of Kiev was under way and therefore certain weapons were being sent to stop the Russian advance, today they may not agree on the sending of weapons; weapons that are long range, can strike - as some NATO members have said they want to do - the missile bases on Russian soil and therefore could lead to an escalation, a third world war and even a nuclear war. It is in your own interest, in the interest of the parties, whose leaders at least in words have stated that they do not want to send further types of arms of longer range, and especially in view of the fact that Parliament has not asked to hold a discussion and vote an indication to the Government on 19 May after the information of President Draghi - so the Senate has left itself without any possibility of discussion and vote on these crucial issues - and even more so in case, as said, there will be no discussion and vote on 19 May, we believe it is necessary to take an official and formal position in front of the country. We are asking you now with this vote not to express to you the content of the motion, but to schedule it in order to be able to discuss it this afternoon or tomorrow, thus taking up in hand those parliamentary prerogatives on a fundamental subject, of life or death, such as that which history imposes on us today, regarding the position of Italy, of neutrality or cobelligerance, at war. That is why I ask you to pay particular attention to raising your hand or not, because it is a vote that could change the fate of a dangerous affair from Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u50	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I therefore call for the vote by show of hands on the proposal put forward by Senator Crucioli. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u51	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March 2022, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber and in the vicinity of access to the Presidency bench. The senators for trust will answer yes, the opposing senators will answer no, the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Pagano is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Pagano. PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 15:08 a.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 21 of March 2022, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 211 Senators voting 210 Majority 105 Favorables 178 Contrars 31 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 21 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u54	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I know that I am monotonous, yet again speaking in this House on the problem of excessive wildlife, particularly wild boars. In the course of all the reports I have had in this House, I have almost had the opportunity to say that children will soon be eating. Unfortunately we got there and it's not a simple joke; the other night in Castellaneta Marina, in the province of Taranto, a teenager, while playing a ball game in the square, as we use to do, was attacked by a wild boar with one arm and one hand. It could have been much worse if the boar had continued in the other parts of the body. The boy was emergency surgery at the Bari Hospital and today we do not know if he will return to have a normal use of the arm and hand. I am sorry to have to say these things and have to be angry for the umpteenth time: there have been too many rejections, even formal ones, compared to proposals that have been made by us in this House to change the rule that would allow the number of boars in our country to be reduced to those who are willing to do this civil service today (i.e. who is in possession of the license to be able to shoot them down). However, it cannot be done because the stubbornness of someone who reigns in a part of this House has prevented it. Even a few weeks ago an important exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars in this House claimed that hunting is barbaric. Today I say that barbarism is the boar that you eat the child and shame is being on the side of the boar rather than on the side of the child. I see, however, that we still want to go on like this. It is therefore urgent to lay down and bury this extremist animalism, to amend Law 157 of 1992 to allow us to do what I said before. Here I say it and I would not want anyone to have the opportunity to misread my words: this boar has anticipated the occupation of another. What will happen in the near future, unfortunately, in our country because of the excessive presence of wolves, an exaggerated number compared to what our country could contain. It is not the rally of a hunter who has no interest, as the category of hunters does not, to go and shoot wolves.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u57	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today there are two occasions that I think are important. The first, National Nurse's Day. I would like to thank them for their dedication and professionalism, an important and essential fact. On the day that celebrates the work of nurses we reaffirm, as always, their centrality in our health system. Today is the day when we say thank you once again to all the nurses and nurses for their constant work and dedication. Mr President, the second anniversary is World Fibromyal Day. Today wants to turn the spotlight on a pathology still unfortunately considered by many ghosts. The reality is quite different. It is a well-defined disease and recognized unanimously by scholars, who only in Italy affects about 2 million people, mostly women. It is a chronic and crippling pathology that to date is not easy to diagnose, which is essentially of exclusion. Chronic and persistent skeletal muscle pain, with possible violent exacerbations. There is a difficult institutional and legislative path in progress, including in our Health and Health Commission, to finally reach the proper recognition of this disease which is not yet included in the essential levels of care (LEA). With the help of all political forces, it must be possible to complete the long journey and the many bureaucratic passages so that this invisible disease has its proper regulatory recognition. The Movimento 5 Stars is present and attentive to give light and visibility to those who, fragile, ask respect. All together we can and must make it; we color and illuminate of purple the squares of our cities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u60	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, during the first months of the pandemic, dramatic months, our health system has been severely tested, especially at regional level. The regions had to make decisions quickly, in a state of emergency. Many of these found themselves right, others a little less, some inconceivable. In this regard, I refer to the choice of transforming the district hospital garrison (POD) of the municipality of Venosa, in the province of Potenza, in Basilicata, in the hospital Covid-19. It is a choice considered inconceivable because, in order to do this, departments and clinics have been dismantled considered true excellences for decades. I am referring to the Alzheimer's nucleus, dialysis, radiology and cardiology. You do not understand this decision, since on the table at that time there were options considered much more reasonable than this choice. As many as 18 mayors of the Vulture Alto Bradano area asked the president of the Basilicata Region, Vito Bardi di Forza Italia, to review this choice, which was designed by the then Health Councillor, Rocco Leone, famous in recent days for the phrase addressed to the regional councilor on particular gargles to cure the sore throat. It is also curious that in that particular historical period the President of the Regional Health Commission was a regional councillor, citizen of the municipality of Venosa, representative of the League. This is to show how much the League defends its territories. It is no coincidence that I mentioned those two political forces, to which I add Brothers of Italy, who lead the regional administration of Basilicata and who have not had the slightest respect for those who have to undergo dialysis, for those suffering from Alzheimer's disease. These subjects, faced with this dismantling, were faced with a real odyssey, losing their point of reference. The questions put by the Regional Councillor for the Movimento 5 Stars, Gianni Leggieri, and even his motions, approved unanimously, perhaps mockingly, by the Regional Council, were worth nothing. We are at the side of the mayor of Venosa, Marianna Iovanni, in this battle. The crisis has faded. We have always said, and in all places, that we must increase territorial medicine, the medicine that is closest to the patient. We don't give up. I will not put a question to Minister Hope, because the Constitution says that there is no competence of the Ministry of Health in this case. However, we reaffirm the competence of regional health. We will write to Minister Hope an open letter, to make him aware of the disastrous situation in Lucan's health care, not only with reference to the Pod Venosino, but more generally. It is a struggle for all citizens, not only of Venosa, but of the whole area of Vulture Alto Bradano. Mr President, today is the World Day of Fibermyalgia, but also of nurses, and, in conclusion, I take this opportunity to thank this category for its valuable work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u63	DE VECCHIS (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, I rise to bring to the attention of the Senate, but also of the Government, a situation which I think is worrying. Since June 1, the airline ITA Airways has signed a contract with Danata Srl, a catering company. All legitimate, but the first Italian company, the former Alitalia (which was the national flag company), first entrusted the catering management to another company, Gate Gourmet. What is worrying is the maintenance of employment levels. We would not want this transition from one company to another, from one company to another, to lead to the loss of jobs, even in view of the attention to the new season, with the increase of flights. We would not want, as air traffic increases, to lose jobs: it would be a mockery. Among other things, I am concerned by the famous industry decree which, in Article 7, sterilizes and cancels the social clause precisely for air transport and induced employees. I'm really worried. We would very much like a guarantee from the Labour Commission and the Minister for Labour that these workers will be protected. We're talking about 2,000 people. They are only voices, but, for the voice of the people, the voice of God, there is indeed a voice of 500 redundancies. I ask you, then, kindly, to bring this situation to the attention of the Government. In addition, I would like to greet the workers of the private supervision service of the Terni steel works (AST), who are at risk of work. I also devote this brief speech to them, which I hope will come to the attention of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-432.ana.u65	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.26 a.m.
