ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00473 (text 2), tabled by Senator Alfieri and other Senators, 1-00480, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and 1-00481, presented by Senator Tosato and other Senators, on the Conference on the Future of Europe. I call Senator Alfieri to explain motion No. 473 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u5	Mr President, I rise to explain motion No 473 (text 2) on the Conference on the future of Europe, which is about to finish its work. In full respect of what is already being done by the European Union's Political Commission, chaired by Mr Dario Stefano, in which a survey is being carried out on the subject with a series of hearings, which will produce conclusions, it seemed to us correct, especially on my part and on the part of Vice-President Taverna, having been pointed out by President Casellati as representatives of the Senate, therefore not of the parliamentary groups, at the Conference on the future of Europe, to leave a trace of the work done. We considered it appropriate to mark a point not so much on the conclusions of the Conference on the future of Europe but on what this Conference can represent in terms of political message. In France there were elections and President Macron was re-elected, who also led the Presidency, which planned a final event of the Conference on the Future of Europe on 9 May. What do we want to do about the Conference on the future of Europe? Do we think of this as a mere talk at European level where ideas have been put aside or take advantage of this experiment - which, like all experiments, has the pros and cons, the virtues and defects - of participatory democracy, we value it and bring it into the hands of the future debate and the decisions that individual governments will have to take in the European Parliament on how to adapt and strengthen European instruments? Well, I think that the conclusions of the Conference cannot simply be set aside but must have political value. I want to say a few words about the Conference on the future of Europe. I myself had some concerns about how this new experiment could work, not least because there were different levels of participation: representatives of the European Parliament, national parliaments, the Commission, governments and even part of citizens, identified, of course, by a mechanism that can be questionable, but that are bearers of proposals that come from below, even of a different kind, sometimes even naif, but that have been discussed in European and national panels. This has allowed to build a new mode of comparison. In the dialectic that exists in all the main European societies on the need to reason on systems of direct democracy or to defend and safeguard mechanisms of representative democracy, while considering that the experiments of direct democracy put in place in recent years have left to be desired, I do not even think we can make a preliminary defense of a representative democracy that is tired and struggles to involve the demands that come from the citizens; therefore, we should try to experiment also innovative mechanisms. This was the Conference; at first we had problems of breaking in: bringing citizens into the European mechanisms was certainly not easy; making them express a concept in two minutes, in European times, initially created problems, but then the break-in was overcome and in the end we arrived at conclusions that will be presented precisely on Friday, in plenary, in Strasbourg, which show a need for renewal of Europe. Two messages emerge very clearly: on the one hand, especially in the light of recent events, a pandemic and a war in the heart of Europe, they tell us that Europe needs more tools and more resources to address the challenges that individual states are no longer able to face; on the other hand, there is a call for harmonisation so that the rights and freedoms included in the Constitutional Charters of European countries can be implemented in a similar way in all European states. In conclusion, we would like those of the Conference not to remain mere written statements, but to be the staple to lead to a strengthening of Europe both by using the existing rules, therefore by existing treaties, and with the possibility of opening a European Convention with the participation of representatives of national parliaments to discuss how to strengthen the European institutions. The last European Convention dates back to 2003-2004. The world has passed since then, there has been an economic and financial crisis, a pandemic and a war; what else must happen in order to open up a reflection involving all the European institutions to strengthen Europe? We know, with war in the heart of Europe, what this represents and how important it is to give a signal that we have understood the lesson, and that Europe can be resilient and respond to the challenges it faces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u6	I call Senator Vono to explain motion No 481.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motion under discussion on the future of Europe, in the light of the pandemic crisis, before, and of Ukraine's aggression, today, has a significant impact since many of the security that we believed to have been consolidated are beginning to falter, on which the decisive political judgements and actions of the States were based. In a context so profoundly changed and in continuous and unpredictable transformation, in which all certainty seems to fail, it is important for the Member States of the European Union to coordinate in order to accredit themselves in an authoritative and unified position, rethinking precisely the nature and purposes of the European Union itself. The Conference on the Future of Europe, which provides for the conclusion and presentation of work in a few days' time, on 9 May 2022, saw the development of interesting debates and discussions involving civil society and European, national, regional and local authorities on nine priority themes, ranging from environmental challenges to the people's service economy, social equity, intergenerational solidarity, digital transformation, security, immigration policies and young people. All of these issues, which, by debating the role of Europe in the world in various respects, have one common denominator: democracy. However, it is precisely the so called democracy of which Europe should be the cradle and custodian of values, and of which we should rediscover, ladies and gentlemen, the political, philosophical and social sense, that cannot continue to be used only as a semblance, to give colour to a self-managed and poorly-managed power. Instead, it is the source from which to rediscover relationships and relationships according to loyalty and fairness in order to conduct together, in a more operational way, the processes of the European Union. Those processes which, through the work of the Conference, must strengthen Europe's ability to achieve political priorities with greater harmonisation of legislation, effective application of the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and transparency, from which we cannot fail if we really want to build together a Europe that is united and authoritative. In this particular context, in which the world economic cycle has weakened, it is necessary to consider the consequences that affect Italy in a direct way and we cannot fail to consider the negative changes in GDP that in the first quarter 2022, suffering a lot from the Omicron variant and the increasing geopolitical tensions, resulting in the invasion of Ukraine, have influenced in a consistent way also in the social context, reducing the purchasing power of families, due to the general increase in prices, not only of raw materials and not only in the energy sector. Industrial activity also declined in the whole of the first quarter of 2022, returning to levels slightly lower than before the outbreak of the pandemic, creating inconveniences for entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and job and employment difficulties, despite the aid spread through the various legislative measures. These facts, which must be taken into account, must not, however, prevent our country from playing an important and prominent role in Europe and with Europe, being, in any case, the protagonist of a political and economic strategy that goes beyond the simple guarantee of survival and must look to a long-term horizon to prevent and manage at best unforeseen events and ensure a gradual recovery. This premise is to say that the Conference on the future of Europe is the starting point, in order to share new rules of European economic governance, with the active involvement of the European Parliament, which, as President Tajani said some time ago, will have - and now necessarily must - the task of guiding, hosting and advancing its proposals. Europe is and must be the common container of different needs, in order to strengthen the solidarity and strategic independence of the European Union itself, by intervening with a unified economic policy, a defence for common security, a coordinated energy policy and mechanisms for stabilising the markets at macroeconomic level. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall begin by concluding my speech, which I shall, however, hand over, recalling the words of our President Draghi: National sovereignty remains the fundamental element of each government, but for the challenges that transcend national borders, the only way to defend sovereignty is for us Europeans to share it within the European Union. I therefore express the conviction and hope that together we will face this difficult and courageous challenge, legitimizing Europe and adhering to the founding and cornerstones of the European Union itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u8	I call Senator Malan to explain motion No 480.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my fellow senators, this Conference on the future of Europe is a very curious operation. I wonder how many people outside of the staff were really interested in it. It has certainly not been an issue of widespread discussion among people and citizens, but also among those who are actively involved in politics. It was supposed to be an experiment in the exercise of participatory democracy, but it showed many shadows and doubts about the reliability of all procedures and the viability of the proposals received and formulated. The working methods were to summon 800 citizens, chosen by a company specializing in market surveys by a so-called random method. In other words, it is a company specialized in seeing what consumers are looking for in a product, in order to make it easier for the products themselves to be sold: it is something quite different from coordinating people, however, chosen at random - as they say - to formulate proposals that are absolutely political. There have not been a lot of complaints and concerns, shared by many MEPs, national parliamentarians and members of national governments, who have also noted a lack of attention to procedures and even the impossibility to verify that the citizens, since they are meetings remotely, really followed the work. One of the interesting things is that, although the Italian population is 14% of the population of the European Union, only 22 of the 800 participants are Italian, i.e. less than 3%. Compared with 14 percent of the population, less than 3 percent of the participants are Italian. Who knows why? You don't know. So these 800 participants, of which 22 Italians, were divided into panels, using this term also in the Italian version, because apparently the words commission or working group were considered unfit to express the concept in our language. These four panels have therefore developed the beauty of 368 proposals, called recommendations. It is rather difficult to understand how people chosen at random, who do not meet physically, without voting - this is another peculiarity - can come up with proposals. It is therefore clear that most of the work was done by the organisation, whose presidency was under the auspices of the Presidency of the European Commission, the Presidency of the European Council and the Presidency of the European Parliament, which in turn appointed three representatives: one French, one Belgian and one Croatian. The final approval will always take place without votes (so we do not understand how) at the plenary session that has yet to be held, so the proposals have theoretically not yet been approved, although it is clear that these 368 recommendations will be, because, given the particular mechanisms with which they have already been drawn up, they will be approved on Friday and Saturday. It is therefore interesting to read these 368 proposals which are all, really without excluding one, aimed at widening the powers of the European Union, or assuming functions that are now national states or local authorities, or imposing new constraints, new rules and new conditions on citizens and businesses. Parliaments and national governments are mentioned very few times and only to say what they must be required to do. Let me give some examples: among the proposals, which end up seeming almost unanimous, there are euthanasia, marriage, regardless of sex and - with a curious expression - adulthood (which I do not quite understand what it means, but I hope does not mean what I fear), and of course adoption, regardless of who forms these families. There is a craving to teach European citizens how to think, because there are campaigns that, rather than information, are used to educate citizens to think in a certain way, as is explicitly stated. We do not think that this is the function of the European Union; we believe that it must exploit the extraordinary qualities that the Member States have, starting with Italy, and not standardize them in an indistinct grayness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u10	I declare the debate open. Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Conference on the future of Europe was born to offer all European citizens an opportunity to reason on the challenges and priorities of Europe and to reflect on the future of the European Union. The European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission have undertaken to listen to the voices of Europeans and to follow up, within their respective competences, the recommendations received. Italy was already among the first Member States in 2020 to contribute ideas on the way, objectives and organisation of the Conference, but the scenario in the last two years has inevitably changed priorities and urgency to be met. The pandemic crisis before and the aggression against Ukraine today have led to the arrest, or at least the slowdown, of certain policies linked to austerity in the area of Community budgetary discipline and to changes in international relations structures, bringing to light the need to reaffirm the absolute centrality of the European Union and a cohesive and interventionist Community political power. Nine working groups were involved in the debate which took place at the Conference on the Future of Europe. These are the themes of the panels: a stronger economy, social justice and employment, the European Union in the world, values and rights, the rule of law, security, digital transformation, European democracy, migration, education, youth and sport. This confrontation revealed the need, given the current international situation, to re-found the European project, so that the Union, the European Parliament and the national parliaments can become the driving force capable of facing future challenges and crises. In the face of the political upheaval caused by the Russian aggression with the invasion of Ukraine, but which has hit the whole continent, perhaps we should rethink the nature and objectives of the European Union, if we do not lay the foundations for a genuine re-foundation. The Conference on the Future of Europe should also lead to a comparison of the new rules for European economic governance, which provides for coordination of national fiscal policies with the involvement of the European Parliament and national parliaments, with financial investments aimed not only at economic stability but also at the sustainability, growth and preservation of the social fabric. We hope that a reform of the European budgetary rules will be achieved in an evolving way compared to the previous regulatory framework, which will review the Next generation EU project, directing its objectives towards financing defence, cybersecurity, immigration, energy and technological independence in the strategic sectors and thus achieve a unified reform on the financing of investments for the digital and environmental transition. In conclusion, let us mention our President Tajani, who says that if we want a Europe that counts more we must have an instrument because it counts more within NATO. We therefore hope that the proposals put forward will be agreed by consensus and cohesively in this House and in the final appointment of 29 and 30 April in Strasbourg. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u13	Mr President, the Conference on the future of Europe was proposed in 2019 and should have started work on 9 May 2020 but, due to the pandemic, it was postponed until 9 May 2021. His work lasted a year and should be concluded on 9 May next on the 72nd anniversary of the Schuman Declaration, the declaration by the then French Foreign Minister, Robert Schuman, who proposed on 9 May 1950 the creation of a European Coal and Steel Community, whose members would have combined coal and steel production. I remember this because today this anniversary has a certain effect, if we contextualize it and if we think about the crucial and emerging issue that Europe is Italy are facing, that is, the energy supply, the exit from dependence on Russian gas and oil and that of founding the premises for a necessary autonomy for an ecological transition, as well as for the use of renewable energies. Let us return to the Conference, which should have relaunched the European project, involving European citizens and civil society, and which, as Mr Malan recalled, is organised by the three main European institutions: the Commission, Parliament and the Council, and is coordinated by an Executive Committee. In short, the intention would be, as we read in the documents relating to the Conference that I went to see, a unique opportunity to reason on the challenges and priorities of Europe, as we always read on the site, through a mechanism of plenarys and working groups. I also went to check the number of meetings. There have already been six of them, although the first were before the Russian invasion of Ukraine. After this date the world has changed, the geopolitical structure is changing and I imagine that this has also affected the work of the Conference. The next plenary will be at the end of April and the final work, as mentioned, will take place on 9 May. The Conference's plenary sessions discuss the recommendations made by the national panels of European countries and citizens and the contributions collected by the multilingual digital platform. This digital platform would be the backbone of the Conference, which, as Mr Malan recalled, is an experiment of participatory democracy. Beautiful as an idea: it is a pity that the numbers of participation, in the method and also in the merit of contributions, are a bit tristanzuoli and make us raise doubts and doubts. When the Conference concludes its work on 9 May, the Council, the Commission and Parliament will receive the recommendations contained in a report, some of which - I stress - contain clear indications of the need to revise the founding Treaties of the European Union. I would like to remind you that the last revision in this area dates back to 2007, with the signing of the Lisbon Treaty. But the point is that Brussels will have to choose whether to follow up the proposals of the citizens or whether to interpret the final common document as a sort of indicative direction of work - hence, basically, a useless thing - without affecting either the Treaties or the structure of the European Union, at this point - let me say - betraying the confidence of the citizens. In essence, there are many legitimate doubts about the outcome of the Conference: that unique opportunity would become - perhaps already - a wasted opportunity. There are also doubts about the method of work, the representativeness and the sample of delegates, the national citizens' panels - only six Member States, in fact, have set up them - and other doubts about which Mr Malan spoke. I add further doubts and concerns, as our colleague Carlo Fidanza, MEP of the Group of European Conservatives and Reformists, has done in Brussels, who has asked to know the costs, without having answered his question: what budgets have been used and what costs are planned in the end. It is already estimated that the Commission has spent EUR 22 million and Parliament EUR 1.2 million, and we could continue. Then there is a doubt as to the effectiveness of participatory democracy, how the whole Conference was organized, and also how all proposals for reform of the Treaties will not be taken into account. This means that there is a risk that this unique opportunity will eventually become a lost, even wasted opportunity. I am also referring to what was recently said in an interview by President Giorgia Meloni: the Conference on the future of Europe, often called with emphasis, unfortunately risks being a great opportunity lost, because it brings with it a vice of origin: a pre-packaged result endorsed by a few hundred willing and respectable citizens, but certainly - excuse me, ladies and gentlemen - they cannot represent 450 million Europeans. We must then have the courage to look at reality and call things by their name. As Mr Malan said, there is a risk of imposing a single thought. Once again, a fundamental choice has been made, and this is an expression that I have already used in this House a long time ago: what does Europe want to do when it grows up? This was a good opportunity to understand it, because we must always distinguish between function, mission and identity. That is what Europe needs to question. We have our own model of Europe, as illustrated in our motion: a confederation of sovereign national states. Europe should ask the peoples, the Member States, but above all the citizens if they think it is more interesting to know - for example - what they must eat or not eat or - for example - what is pulsating within the hearts of the peoples of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u14	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the Senate has decided to devote a discussion session to the results of the work of the Conference on the Future of Europe. It seems to me to be a signal of unpredictable attention to the prospects for the process of European integration and, above all, to the attempt to involve directly the citizens of the European Union in the definition of fundamental reform objectives. In recent years - we have heard this in the other speeches - the European Union has faced epochal challenges: first of all, the economic crisis of 2008, with its drift of impoverishment, anger and fear; then the migration crisis, which is still ongoing, which we cannot and must not forget; to follow the pandemic and - now - the war. In all these passages the European Union has tried hard not to be found unprepared and - as has often happened in our history - through moments of crisis has found a new driving force to renew itself. These are challenges linked by a single red thread, namely the effective, real and concrete construction of that ever closer solidarity between the peoples of Europe. I have spoken of effective construction because solidarity is such only if it is not rhetorical and brings with it tangible effects especially in the lives of citizens and citizens. In the case of managing the effects of the economic crisis, the challenge of solidarity has not been fully addressed. Let us think of the very hard effects of conditionality on the budgetary policies of individual countries and the many restrictions. However, the challenge of solidarity has also been missed with regard to the migration crisis, the effects of which are still too unbalanced on the countries of the Mediterranean area. Things have gone differently in the management of the pandemic crisis, where for the first time we have seen a change of pace, with the formation of the common debt aimed at health protection, the development of the economy and the ecological transition. Now, the last point of crisis: war. As Europe and Europeans, we still have 1,000 questions about war, but we are sure that we want to put every resource and initiative in place, starting with the construction of a common defence and an effective and united foreign policy, so that Europe can strengthen itself and become a real instrument of peace. I repeat: Europe as an instrument of peace, which is precisely why it was born. But the Europe of peace cannot but be the Europe of solidarity and the Europe of solidarity is the Europe that decides to be the protagonist of history and that, with courage, bases its identity and its historical role on the defence and promotion of rights and democracy. The work of the Conference on the future of Europe is within this framework, trying to answer one question: which European Union for the third millennium? The answer to this question was sought by enhancing the participation of citizens, with the creation of a multilingual digital platform: an innovative method, but at the same time deeply rooted in our democratic culture. Democracy and participation are a necessary step towards the ever more unavoidable construction of the United States of Europe, which is our goal as the point of arrival of ever greater solidarity between European States and peoples. Among the many issues that have been addressed in the Conference I would like to focus on the guarantee of the rule of law and rights and migration policies. The Conference has produced important and advanced proposals on both sides, bearing witness to the fact that concern about these issues is strong among citizens and that, above all, these issues are perceived as identity and qualification. Without rights and without solidarity there can be no Europe. To those seven "Unions" about which our secretary Enrico Letta spoke in a beautiful article a few days ago on the "Foglio" is added, then, another, which all summarizes and encloses: the Europe of rights, freedom, equality and justice. I am thinking of the threats to the rule of law that have become increasingly blatant in some Member States, such as Hungary and Poland. On this too, the Working Group on the Rights and Values of the European Union has made important proposals to make effective the procedures for monitoring compliance with the rule of law by the Member States. As one of the proposals says, fundamental values and rights must really be non-negotiable conditions, irreversible conditions for access and permanence in the European Union. I am thinking of the situation of women's rights, especially in Poland, where the termination of pregnancy has become a right that is no longer guaranteed and practically non-existent; a climate of terror among women and also among health workers too often causes the death of women, even young and very young, who are not allowed to stop their pregnancy. We have all heard and read about the Ukrainian women refugees who, arriving in Poland, flee from the horrors of war and cannot stop their pregnancy, even if it is the result of violence suffered at war. I am thinking of the condition of LGBT people in Poland and Hungary, of the liberticidal and obscurantist legislation desired by Orbán. I am thinking of the proud response of the European Parliament, which in 2021 adopted three resolutions on the subject, proclaiming the Union as a free zone for LGBT people. [[Brusio.]] President, there is an incredible noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u16	I call everyone to attention, but it is quite a silent assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u17	CIRINNA' (PD). It is a strategy, colleagues and colleagues, which also affects our country closely, which, on the LGBT issue, is still very far away, really very far from European standards; a country in which this Assembly has shamefully considered to sink a law against hate crimes; a country that continues to ignore the demand for recognition and protection of the sons and daughters of the rainbow families, despite the pronunciation of the Constitutional Court. I recall that the Court of Justice also stated in 2021 that those who are parents in one country must be parents in all other countries. In conclusion, Mr President, I am thinking of migration policies: the password must remain solidarity. And solidarity must be the same for all human beings. Those who are rejected at the border, in the middle of winter, with the hydrants of frozen water, do not have Europe before them: they simply have before them the horror, the same horror as the Ukrainian refugees, the same horror from which everyone wants to escape. [[Applause]] Since I have not finished my speech, I would ask that we be able to attach the full text.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u18	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u20	Mr President, as a journalist, I knew that it was enough to speak ill of politics and politicians to snatch an easy and secure round of applause. I have always tried not to do this, considering - as I thought and still believe - that politics is us and delegitimizing politics weakens ourselves and the state to which we belong. As a centre-right MEP, I know that, in order to snatch an easy round of applause, it is often enough to speak ill of Europe but, for the same reasons that I did not speak and do not speak ill of politics and politicians, I try not to speak ill of Europe. Wanting to compete in a globalised world, Europe can only become our homeland: it has always been true and it is today more than ever. Colleagues, it is useless to hide and lie to ourselves or, even worse, to our electorate. Italy is a structurally fragile state, in a world in dissolution, now without a geopolitical order, struggling with colossal problems of a global order and that can no longer rely on the protection and leadership of the United States of America, because clearly the United States has been withdrawing from the world for years now. In this context, it is not conceivable to do it alone: to give a political soul to economic Europe is the only condition to prevent Italy from becoming a colony of one of the two resurgent and reigning empires, China and Russia; Turkey I fear we will have to deal here little by little. It is not rhetoric to say that we either make Europe now or no longer do it. But, in order to make a political Europe, European reason must be preceded by Europeanism. The feeling of common citizenship which, with all evidence, has not yet been established must be made broad in the conscience of the nations. Europe is a fruit of reason, an idea, a concept; it lives in the minds of many, but it does not warm anyone's heart, it does not presuppose an identity, it does not evoke a belonging. It is a Europe that is all-headed and has no feeling - said Ralf Dahrendorf - and we know very well how much feelings are actually more than reason to guide history, how sentimental political choice is more than rational. We also know that, without a feeling of identification in the common European homeland, the Member States will hardly give up that surplus of policy to the Union which will only make the Union an active entity on the global stage, capable of a common foreign and defence policy. Something's changing, though. We know that fear is the main and the most powerful of feelings, and in recent years we have had and are afraid, because we are confronting atavistic spectra such as death and misery, and these fears of ours have been protected and governed by our being European citizens. If we have fought side by side a health war, we are facing the economic consequences of that health war, we are now faced with a war war, with a declaration of war suffered by the West to its values, its principles, its system of alliances. All this, colleagues, triggers strong feelings, forces important strategic choices; choices that identify who makes them; choices that presuppose and involve values, principles, roots and interests. Now that we have an enemy, it's easier to recognize friends. Colleagues, this is the time to take advantage of the feelings and challenges that history offers us. This is the time - paraphrasing Massimo D'Azeglio - to make Europeans, an essential and unseparable condition in order to then make a political Europe, which we never need like today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u21	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Conference on the future of Europe has been a time for debate that has been desired and requested for several years to bring proposals from below with a view to improving and modifying the functioning of Europe, which has not been reflected for a number of reasons. Surely the pandemic has further removed the possibilities of encounters, of carrying out physical events and has helped to divert the tension of the path of the Conference. However, it is certain that the poor result achieved reflects a perception of the distance of European citizens towards the European institutions, sometimes seen more as a castle of bureaucrats than as representatives of the people at the service of all European citizens. I will concentrate briefly on three issues: European democracy, foreign policy and defence, work. First of all, it is clear that the intergovernmental mechanism of the European institution still clearly prevails over the supranational identity of the European Union. The common perception is that, since the last amendment of the Treaties, more steps have been taken back than steps forward. That is why, as a parliamentary group, we have often stressed the importance of structural reforms in the Union in the various documents we have produced over the last few years. It is necessary to find the courage to sit at the table and amend the Treaties in order to arrive at a European Union that will defeat its democratic deficit and address those socio-economic issues which, if unresolved, will continue to remain a factor of political division. That is also why we have called for and continue to call for a greater role for the European Parliament, the only true representative body, since it is directly elected by the citizens. It is unacceptable that the European Parliament should not have the power of legislative initiative, but only the power of proposal. The high rate of abstention during the European elections is a warning bell that has been ringing for decades, and has not yet found sufficient answers from the European institutions. The European Union must be the cradle of popular participation and not an institution that further alienates citizens from politics. [[Applause]] We also need to rethink the role of the European Commission, the true decision-making body of the future of the Union, moving towards a path that changes the elections of the President of the Commission and truly makes the Commission accountable to the European Parliament; it is essential, in order to improve the functioning of the Union, to bring it closer to the citizens. The same applies to the transparency and publicity of the work of certain European interministerial meetings, such as the Ecofin. We have often talked about this in this House and, as a group, we have raised the problem of the famous secrecy constraints that accompany certain fundamental economic and monetary decisions. These are elements that do not contribute to the democratization of the Union and we are sure that the founding fathers of the European project would not have been thrilled to know how much the current bureaucratic apparatus of the Union is so different from the original dream. [[Applause]] With regard to the external dimension of the European Union, which has often been discussed in the Foreign Commission, there are clear fears from the ideas and ideas emerging from the Conference about the lack of geopolitical role of the European Union: Europe is unable to carry out any deterrent and mediation activity in relation to global issues, whether they be economic or security issues. And this is the case despite the fact that the European continent continues to be one of the world's major economies and demographys. The reasons for this lack are different and would require a long and in-depth debate: from slow decisions of vital importance to different geopolitical views and interests between Member States, through a lack of strategic coherence that prevents Europe from feeling like a global actor. We have often seen the European Union trying to punish or threaten its own Member States in legal terms - let us think about the case of Hungary and Poland - and forgetting the serious security dangers that face our continent. As far as relations with the outside world are concerned, the work of the Conference reveals the desire to establish greater cooperation and dialogue with African counterparts: I personally welcome this will with great pleasure. Over the course of these years we have worked hard on every measure to bring the issues to light: on all we have highlighted the importance of a structural project such as the one relating to the fight against the drying up of Lake Chad, a water basin that supports the economy of the whole Sahel. Investing as a European Union in such a project literally means saving the future of tens of millions of people and allowing them to live in their own country. Africa is a demographically young continent, facing structural problems that limit its economic development. The decision to cooperate with the African continent as the European Union is crucial in many respects. It means giving the future to millions of people who want to live in their country to contribute to their growth. It means preventing land depopulation, stopping the bleeding of human beings that is a disaster for Africa's future. It means dealing with immigration a priori [[Applause]] , not only by preventing the departure by coercive methods, but also by offering prospects for development. It means countering the great interference of one of the present global and territorial powers on the Continent, with all the strategic dangers arising from the excessive penetration of this power into our southern borders. Finally, it means dealing with security: a stronger Africa is a deterrent to the development of jihadist terrorism, which feeds on poverty and illusions. There Italy must play a primary role and remind European partners of the importance of the southern borders and the relationship with the African continent and build a leadership within the European Union, based on our diplomatic network that the whole world envies us. Finally, a brief mention is made of the issue of labour, on which I believe it is necessary to achieve an overall strategy in Europe, which can balance the protection of workers with the needs of the labour market and economic development. For this reason it will be essential to start a path to significantly reduce the tax dumping of our country and of the member countries; to counter relocation focused on labour costs alone; to stimulate the research and development of the enterprises; to generate employment and to raise the level of competitiveness of the Union compared to global competitors. In conclusion, Mr President, I expect the final act of the Conference to be a starting point for reaching an act of courage from the Member States and the European institutions for a response that can fill the immobilisation that has occurred in Europe in recent years and that perhaps before the pandemic and now the war is awakening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u23	Mr President, for many analysts, historians, geopolitical experts, economists, a united Europe, a federal Europe or the United States of Europe - as is often imagined - are almost impossible, if not impossible. This continent, so geographically divided by large rivers, mountain ranges, sea, has thickened, within these natural borders, peoples also different from one another in large communities more or less homogeneous culturally and linguisticly over the centuries. The history, the nationalisms, the wars, the traumas suffered by the peoples of Europe have further dug the divisive furrow between the nations and further fenced the present European nations. A sort of monetary union, a written policy made up of algid financial parameters, numbers and austerity have helped to increase suspicion and isolation by building additional walls - real or not - between a virtuous North and an economically unreliable South, a fragmented East, disputed, marginalized, an isolated West, with mutual distrust; a Mediterranean Sea, a place of millennial exchanges and border exchanges between Europe and the rest of the world, has made a narrow stretch of sea between France and England an insurmountable ocean. You cannot change this reality until you change your point of view. And the great European popular consultation on the future of Europe has moved from new and correct premises at last: no longer a Europe conceived exclusively as a set of states, nations and governments opposed to surrendering sovereignty, but a Europe of peoples, which starts from the peoples to re-establish unity. If there is already a union of the peoples of Europe, it is that of millions of citizens, young and old, who have travelled through Europe over the last thirty years; loved, spoken, worked, studied, participated in joint research projects in the sharing and intercultural contamination among the citizens of this great European civilization. It is they who erase the borders; it is they who live together, close to each other, valorizing the precious differences and the common traits. There cannot be a European Union that has fallen from above, let alone in the midst of geopolitical drives and centrifugal forces and international powers that aim to divide Europe or control it rather than unite it. This is because a united Europe would be an impressive and powerful international competitor; because our GDP can be comparable to that of Asia and North America. This world tormented by wars and divisions is changed not with the interests of multinationals and governments, but with common objectives of peoples who want peace and prosperity. With a true common internal and foreign political vision, we will then be able to aspire to a true common European defence. [[Applause.]] Mr President, the peoples can be united and live with much more than the nations - alas - and it is right to start from there, from there, from us Italian and European citizens, as well as the Movimento 5 Stars has always stood up for the other peoples of Europe. Let us leave behind, colleagues, the part of us bent and crushed by history. Let us let the freedom and common sharing that our history always tells us fly. We spent millennia together. The borders not of our identities but of our nations will have to give way to a true European and political, economic and international popular union. Such dark and tragic times make it urgent to become aware. Today, as never before, it is vital to overcome divisions and walk alone without anyone holding hands, and this only a Europe of peoples can do so before it is too late. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u24	The debate is closed. I communicate that the agenda was presented G1, signed by Senators Castellone, Tosato, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Faraone, Unterberger, Alfieri and Taverna, whose text is being distributed. I would ask the authors to confirm that the motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, I see a hint of assent. I call on the representative of the Government to speak, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on motion 480 and on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators for this morning's debate, for accompanying the work of the Conference on the future of Europe and for having decided at the final stage to open the debate and present the resolutions. I think that this experimental exercise is clearly critical, because I have heard criticism of participation. But let us start from a firm point: it was an unprecedented exercise of participation outside the institutions, in the European Parliament and in the Conference. I participated in the panels, in which the debate was open to members of the Government, national parliaments, the European Parliament and citizens. From this point of view, I can say to my colleagues who have been most critical that, although it was not perfect, for those who participated it was an unprecedented exercise, but very positive. At least that's the impression I got. It is true that the debate, especially in the times we have experienced since the pandemic and the outbreak of the war, has focused on what Europe needs to do about these crises and how best to equip itself to deal with them and overcome positively the limitations that individual states have in the face of global crises, such as the pandemic or the security crisis due to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia in Putin. I agree with all the senators who have recalled the importance that this exercise does not end up in the drawer - as the presenter of one of the motions said - and that the Member States and the European institutions take responsibility for whether or not to follow up. But of course there must be a clear and clear expression of political will. There are many recommendations: it will be a matter of picking up the priorities and defining them, but above all it will be - and this will be the task of the European Council which will collect what is being sent to it by the Presidency of the European Union - to follow up and respond to the various expectations. Coming to the opinions, the Government gives a favourable opinion on the G1 agenda and a contrary opinion on motion 480.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u29	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ideas full of enthusiasm and desire to help shape Europe's future horizons; ideas that bear witness to the ambition of Europeans and Europeans to be an active part of a reality to which they feel they belong: there is this and much more among the many proposals coming from the preparatory work for the Conference on the future of Europe and the most beautiful sign of attachment to our values is the fact that the topic that has recorded the highest level of treatment is that of European democracy, resulting in the first topic discussed, even more of climate and environment. This is a sign that the Conference on the future of Europe has a strong sense of belonging to the citizens and citizens of the European Union, to the extent that it wants to secure more democratic rules and participation. The Conference was essentially a big lobby from below, carried out through events and debates across the Union and at all levels - European, national, transnational and regional - with more than 40,000 contributions, more than 200 citizens per panel from different Member States, one third of whom were young people between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five. In short, it is a truly virtuous path, which has also seen Italy as an active protagonist, convinced supporter of the Conference as an instrument to involve people in the construction of a vision for the future of the European Union. The result of this great human sea is a contagious wave of proposals, representative of diversity and, at the same time, of the identity that characterizes us Europeans. All this tells us of a Europe that is full of lifeblood, active and attractive. Now that the Conference is coming to an end, an important effort is needed to follow up the final conclusions resulting from this choral involvement of citizenship. That is why the hope is that the Conference on the future of Europe will lead to a constituent Convention, which will strengthen the process of European integration. Therefore, fifteen years after the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, there is a need to start a new constituent phase, which will enable us to reopen the construction site for a new European constitution, so as to achieve a reform of the Treaties. The aim is to build a true European federation, organised in a decentralised manner, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, involving local territories and, at the same time, also in accordance with the principle of proportionality, with constant respect for fundamental rights. The instrument, as it was in 1990, before the Maastricht Treaty, could be the use of parliamentary assemblies, in order to reaffirm the importance of representative democracy, in synergy and not in opposition to participatory democracy expressed at the Conference. That is why the Conference on the future of Europe can become an opportunity for an important reform process, which addresses a number of aspects. First of all, we must strengthen the European Parliament by giving it real legislative power, which gives much more weight to the only democratically elected body. It is also necessary to abolish the unanimous vote in the European Council, thereby removing certain states from boycotting the decisions that Europe intends to take. Similarly, the EU needs to be given the possibility of taxation and autonomous fiscal capacity, so as to increase the budget available to it, so that it can make possible European public investment and solidarity policies between States, through the establishment of a true European Treasury Minister. At the same time, risk-sharing instruments must be strengthened, leading to the completion of a banking union and a fiscal union, as should the Stability and Growth Pact, referring to the current situation and giving priority to growth and development. Europe's strategic autonomy must also be pursued in a number of areas, transferring competences from individual states to the European Union. The areas for which there is a European competence are primarily those of health, defence, foreign policy, security, energy supply, the import of raw materials and semiconductors, as well as industrial policy, digital technology and cybersecurity. If we are all working together on these great tasks in Europe, strengthening our strength and bringing together our resources not only economic, we will be much more effective and not only Europe, but also every single European state, will be stronger. The European Union's migration policies must be redesigned by amending the Dublin Regulation, as must the rule of law of membership of the European Union. We believe that the last priority, which is a pity that we have not been able to identify and indicate on the common agenda, is also the need to change the electoral system for the election of the European Parliament by providing for transnational lists and a system of leading candidates. [[Applause]] Similarly, as many contributions to the Conference on the future of Europe have also expressed, direct election of the Presidency of the Commission is desirable. All these are priority points on which it would be appropriate to respond to the many contributions received. Thanks to Europe for almost seventy years we could forget the horror of war; instead, for weeks, at our borders we have been witnessing hell, to the point that new atrocities emerge every day. But now perhaps this cruelty awakens in the citizens a new awareness of how important peace is and how much Europe is in a position to do for peace and therefore also how important it is to fight for Europe as an extraordinary incubator, as well as peace, civilization, culture and progress. With the war in progress, it is clear that Europe cannot be taken for granted: it must be defended, expanded and claimed. However, I hope that the war, once it is over (we all hope that this will happen as soon as possible), will allow us to have a new wave of Europeanism, the result of the awareness of how valuable Europe has been, both at the pandemic stage and now, at the war. The Union has managed to put in place effective innovative responses and solutions that were unimaginable for years, first with the pandemic, putting in place a series of measures (such as Sure, Next generation EU and debt mutualisation), then even now, following the war, with European policies compact on sanctions to Russia, on Putin's political isolation and on the reception of Ukrainian refugees. In the same way, Europe has managed to put in place important measures (I am thinking of the vote on the strategic compass), with a common European army for the first time. It is clear that it is only the beginning, but it is the basis of that European defence Union that we have been talking about for years, without ever coming to any concrete conclusion. In short, the crises of the last three years, first linked to the pandemic and then to the outbreak of the war, have represented an opportunity for the European Union to make substantial progress. I am optimistic that further and imminent developments are possible, so that we have a Europe that is not just in the middle, because it does not want to be crushed, but it is determined to be an interpreter and leader of the new international balances, so that they continue to be inspired by the values of democracy and freedom. Therefore, in thanking the Under-Secretarys Della Vedova and Amendola, who demonstrate all their attention and willingness to see the Government carry out the requests expressed, and also in thanking the two rapporteurs, Senator Taverna and Senator Alfieri, who in their capacity of expression of the Italian Senate have followed the work, not only do I limit myself to expressing the Group's favour, but I reiterate how this can be a valuable opportunity to highlight the Europe we want: a Europe that gives work, well-being, culture and rights; a Europe that guarantees a clean environment and quality of life; a Europe that inspires trust and optimism; in short, a Europe that is and remains also for the future force of peace and democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u32	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, at the end of the debate on this Conference on the future of Europe, we can say that at least one positive fact has led to it: it has confirmed to us that the most important European institutions (the Commission, Parliament and the Council) feel that they do not adequately represent the wishes of the citizens. There is some difficulty in feeling truly representative of the peoples and citizens who elected them, otherwise they would not explain this will and this project to build such a long and complicated session of listening to citizens and peoples. In fact, national parliaments and the European Parliament already exist to listen to and represent the wishes of the citizens. Obviously, in all this something does not work, if you have set up this complicated phase. Moreover, this long Conference on the future of Europe, which, as Mrs Rauti has also explained, has had a very long, complicated and very troubled gestation, in fact, in its construction and also in its final outcome, responds to the same defects and limitations as the institutions that wanted it, that is, the terrible bureaucratic slowness, the distance from the expectations and sensitivities of the citizens, the craftiness and, inevitably, the great desire for it. The problem, however, remains what I mentioned earlier, namely what a conference on the future of Europe needs, which should express the will of the citizens, when the elected parliaments are already there to do this. It seems to me a little bit to feel, in these arguments, what we felt until a few years ago, when a political force represented today in Parliament (in fact, the most important political force represented in Parliament), said that it was necessary to bypass Parliament that one is worth one, that it would be the Internet and social media that would determine the policy of the future. We know the damage this vocation has caused, yes, genuinely populist and demagogic of politics: the deletion of the idea of delegation, for which Parliament is bypassed and people are directly listened to. But who are these citizens and who has given them the task and the burden of fully representing the will and ideas of their fellow citizens? This nobody has explained, so much so that, both today and in the European Parliament, we have declared that the selection path of this audience and this panel of European citizens remains very mysterious, very opaque and not transparent. On the other hand, it is a very small representation of the European population, chosen with criteria that still remain very untransparent for us. Another point that must inevitably be stressed, unfortunately and without particular satisfaction, is that this Conference on the future of Europe has hardly ever been heard of, neither in the media, nor in the newspapers, nor in the news. I have not seen a single person I have met in recent years - and I have met so many in my political activity - who has asked me what was going on at the Conference on the future of Europe. This is because, in fact, almost no one, except the specialists, knew of its existence. In the first formulation of the motion tabled by colleagues from the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement there was a hypothesis that we clearly rejected, that is the idea of automatically promoting the proposals made in that forum and of transferring them to the will of the parliaments and then of the Government. It was an unacceptable proposal, because Parliament is not the passcard of the Conference on the future of Europe and because those proposals were the most varied, the most heterogeneous and even the most contradictory. We are here to do our duty, which is also to discern the proposals on which we have a positive opinion from those we are naturally opposed to. So the risk would be to create terrible confusion and to promote contradictory measures. However, since we were talking about major issues and even about the revision of the Treaties that are at the heart of the European Union, we have allowed ourselves to fly just as high and we have said that, if we have to talk about this, then we have to talk about the whole of the European framework, also in the light of the historical events that are taking place at the borders of the European Union (I am referring clearly to Ukraine). We believe that this is the time to reiterate that the European Union, as it has been structured over the decades, is not what we have imagined. Ours is a different model, confederal, in which States largely maintain their sovereignty, but they give up that slice which is useful to create a political European Union on the major issues that we have blanked out in our motion: security, defence, foreign policy and geopolitics, trade policy, migration and demographic policy and the major health issues related to natural disasters. This is what Europe should strive for and converge on. This is certainly not the Europe we have known, which has been marked by pervasive legislation, I would say all-pervasive, growing and meticulous; Europe deals with thousands of issues that are not important, often bothering citizens and businesses, but it does not deal with and does not care about major issues, so it remains an economic giant and a political dwarf. It is clear that, if Europe wants to be different and to become a political protagonist, it must have a common foreign policy and, to do this, it also needs a common army and a common military policy; all things that are not there and that, when they appear, they immediately find the resistance of the same parties and movements that call for the European Union's protagonism against China, against the United States, etc. Our motion is a way of reaffirming the diversity of our approach to these great issues, which does not mean being anti-European, but rather perfectly pro-European, in a different Europe, stronger and even more supportive, on the big issues and not on the small ones, in search of a single standard, that can enter into the detail of the activities and life of all citizens, from Scandinavia to the Mediterranean. Finally, Mr President, with reference to the historical and cultural roots of the European Union, which, with an absurd choice, have been removed from the foundations of the Statute of the European Union itself. I am referring to the classical, Jewish-Christian cultural roots of Roman law, Greek philosophy, etc. I do this because, in just a few minutes, we will discuss in this same Chamber the figure of St. Francis of Assisi. Then I wonder: could the Europe we know be the same, without the medieval roots built by St. Francis and the culture of monks, Benedictine abbeys and monasticism? That culture is not Catholic or Christian, but it has saved classical culture and delivered it to posterity. We would not be what we are, if we did not have this behind us, even the figure of St. Francis, with all that he represented for the history of Italy and Europe. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will abstain on the agenda that the majority has proposed, because - we recognise this - it is a step backwards from the first motion, which was unacceptable, but there remain great differences from the strategic vision that you have set out, which seems to us very weak compared to what we imagine, which - I repeat - is the dream of a different Europe. If Europe does not wake up now, with what is happening in Ukraine, I think it will never wake up. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u35	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the agenda that we have drawn up together (and I thank the various groups of the majority for their cooperation and work together), which is intended to commit the Government - and at the same time strengthen it - when it will have to deal with a number of steps following the conclusion of the Conference on the Future of Europe, with the decisions that will indicate the President-in-Office of the Presidency of the European Union, Emmanuel Macron, who has just been re-elected, in order to ensure - and this is the first point - that the Conference on the Future of Europe is not just a major debate and a European talk in which different components (national and European MEPs, members of national governments, representatives of the Commission and citizens' representation) are compared, but rather an opportunity to test an innovative model of democratic participation. In all European societies, there is a need to strengthen representative democracy systems, which are a little tired and mark the stage and, in order to provide adequate answers, need an ever-increasing involvement of society and to pay attention to the drives, anxieties and concerns that emerge in European public opinion. As I said before, the Conference on the future of Europe, with the virtues, defects and limitations that have also been highlighted by the opposition forces, represents a piece of innovation (there has been a break-in phase) and I think it is worth safeguarding the positive aspects of experience. I'm going to move on to the second point. The Conference on the Future of Europe can be the decisive driving force to address the real issue that is now present in Europe, namely the capacity of the European Union and the European countries, as a whole and in their collegial capacity, to respond to international challenges that individual countries are no longer able to face. I am referring to the fight against climate change, to the exit from the economic crisis, to the rise in raw materials and energy prices, to the fight against Islamic fundamentalism and, above all, to the key issue of a Europe that cannot only be an economic giant and protagonist in the definition of trade agreements, and then to the big political and diplomatic matches (so the issue of the common foreign and defence policy). Two major questions arise across all nine working groups within the Conference. The first is the call for a stronger Europe with more expertise and resources on issues that need to be addressed at European level, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. If a type of function is better at local government level, it is good that it stays there; if you are better at doing it at national level, it is good that it stays there; and finally, there are functions that need to be carried out at European level in order to respond to the major challenges I mentioned earlier. That is a very strong question. The second question is to harmonise and make similar a number of policies concerning the implementation and respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. That is what Mrs Cirinna said earlier in her speech. We must be consequent and ensure that a minimum standard of rights is guaranteed equally in all the territories of the European Union. In order to do this, we must take note of one fundamental aspect: we can already do some things in existing treaties, by modifying some aspects with the so-called footbridge rules and enhanced cooperation to make Europe stronger. For other things, however, we need to amend the Treaties. Therefore, in the hope that this will emerge on 9 May, during the Feast of Europe in Strasbourg, when there will be the great final demonstration of the Conference on the future of Europe, it will be necessary to open a European Convention, with the participation of representatives of national parliaments, for the modification of the Treaties. [[Applause]] It would be a very strong signal and it is important that we vote for it together, with all the majority forces, and that the government can represent this line. We must make this clear: the last European Convention was more than 15 years ago, in response to the failure of the European Council at the beginning of 2000. That was an important and delicate European Council, because it gave the green light to the enlargement of the European Union, at the end of the wound that had divided Europe in half, with the Cold War. We know how important enlargement has been, seeing it backwards and experiencing the dramatic political phases of these months. In order to allow enlargement, however, European governance had to be changed, decision-making by qualified majority had to be extended to as many areas as possible, and voting on a few subjects had to be restricted unanimously. Unfortunately, this was not done; instead, a downward compromise was made. Hence the need, the following year, in 2001, with the Laeken declaration, to open the last European Convention, which then led to the 2007 Lisbon Treaty. Fifteen years have passed now, we have had an unprecedented economic and financial crisis (since 2008 and subsequent years), phenomena linked to globalisation have entered our societies and opened up opportunities, but many times they have changed people's lives on our territories, in some cases tearing their lives apart (because there are also the negative effects of globalisation); we have experienced a pandemic that has shaken the whole European continent and now we are experiencing a devastating war in the heart of Europe. What else must happen if Europe is to strengthen certain prerogatives and above all invests in a common foreign policy and defence system? The calls for peace and good sentiments risk otherwise being willful and in some way hypocrites, if we are not a consequence of building a European way to strengthen the common foreign and defence policy, to be a consequence of what we say and to be able to really intervene in crisis situations, such as that in the heart of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I appeal above all to those who have doubts about the attitudes of the United States: US foreign policy has also made up for our shortcomings; we have delegated them, also accepting limited sovereignty over certain aspects, the guarantee of stability and security on our continent. I think it is time for Europe to rise up and invest in the dimension of European defence, with its own foreign policy, which cannot be separated from a European defence. It is clear that we can do this within the framework of a European Convention amending the Treaties. I therefore think that if we vote in favour of this agenda, we will all have taken a step forward together. I thank President Alberti Casellati for pointing out me, along with Vice President Taverna, to represent the Senate within the Conference on the Future of Europe. I think that this was an opportunity for everyone to take a step forward in strengthening the European institutions, to respond to the great national and international challenges that we are no longer able to face with today's measures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I congratulate you, together with Senator Alfieri, on your work representing the Senate. The work of the Conference, which is a very important occasion, will end on 9 May. I would like to mention here the issues on which the Conference and the working groups have worked, on issues that are absolutely crucial for Europe's future, from the fight against climate change, to the economy, to the service of fairness among people, equality, solidarity, digital transformation, the role of the European Union and the democratic foundations. This Conference ends in the midst of a upheaval in the very heart of Europe: the war and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. I believe that this raises even more strongly the issues we have been discussing over the past few years. I always say, if not now, when? We have said this in dealing with the pandemic crisis and today it is even more urgent to understand what role we intend to play to the end of Europe and therefore how Italy as a founding country intends to contribute to ensuring that Europe has an increasingly strong role. At such a complicated and difficult time, it is all the more clear that Europe has a structural lack of foreign policy. There is a lot of talk about it, but we must make an effort to understand what contribution we feel we are making in order to really build a common foreign policy. In such a dramatic situation, we reaffirm our position here, namely that it is certainly crazy to think that European countries can leave for themselves with a race for re-armament, when it is to be strongly declined the need for a common defence, but anchored in a common foreign policy. It is at a time like this that Europe absolutely must be able to carry out its role as builder and preparer of peace effectively - and certainly autonomously, therefore also with a very strong responsibility - because in my opinion this is the most fully in line with the fundamental values of the European Union. As we have seen, there are other issues that have been strongly raised: in facing the pandemic, Europe has made a qualitative leap: for the first time things have been done that seemed impossible some time before; just think about the issue of common debt, recovery plan, Next generation EU, which is a qualitative leap and a model that we must look now to face the other major emergencies that we are facing, following the war, but also the delays in investing (I think about the issue of energy autonomy, which concerns our country, but overall Europe). On this front too, we must follow that model which has worked in the fight against the pandemic and which is working for our country. This is one of the themes that we have put forth strongly, we can say that Next generation EU was also one of the successes of Italy. Well, today that we are in the midst of an energy crisis, all the more so we must overcome the usual selfishness and take a step forward following the same model, thus putting in place common tools, such as the price cap or an energy recovery that can somehow coordinate and ensure that work is done in a unique way. To do this, however, it is essential to address the choice whether or not to question the choices made with the Stability and Growth Pact, all the more so because we are facing a terrible crisis. Senator Alfieri recalled the 2008 crisis when Europe was absolutely incapable of putting in place measures that could help and protect. That is the example that must not be followed at all and instead today it is strongly necessary to make a further qualitative leap and we must face what has never been addressed and which has represented a kind of taboo, that is, the revision of the Treaties. I hope that the model for working in this Conference will also make it possible to put an end to the revision of the Treaties. We have another emergency, which is always a result of the war: the agro-food one. We face the energy crisis, but we are forgetting the other crisis, which is also a supply crisis. In the area of food and food safety, Europe had raised very important issues, which were also an element of orientation towards the rest of the world: I am thinking of the programmes it had put in place, such as Farm to fork, which bind together food security, agriculture (as an instrument also for combating climate change and not only as a victim), the quality of food and the distinctiveness of European food models. Today we have to be very careful, because the risk is that some of the limits that had been set - I am thinking, for example, of a series of pesticides and chemicals banned for fifteen or twenty years in Europe - will be suspended because of the supply crisis. In this crisis, not only must Europe not lose all the progress it has made, but it must make a further effort, and it can do so by exceeding a number of limits (I spoke before the revision of the Treaties): however, we need the strength to overcome them. I am convinced of the innovation of a model that has seen in the question of participation and also of a wider consultation an element, in my opinion, winning. The way to take this great step forward and to overcome the intergovernmental model and the mechanism of unanimity is to give strength to the true soul: the European Parliament. We must give much more strength to what is the strong, democratic and true unification element. I believe that this is another of the issues that we consider crucial; according to what has emerged so far from the work of the Conference, it is one of the key elements. We need more democracy and more rights. Further progress must be made on the fact that the Member States have common standards, not only from the economic point of view, but also from that of rights, which are the truly unifying element for the future of Europe. I'm going to conclude. The European institutions are born of the repudiation of war and the horrors of Nazifascism. I hope that even in this difficult, complicated and dramatic situation of war we can take a great step forward and not back, because it is in times of crisis that this is often possible. We really hope that this great challenge ahead of us will be won. We can only do this with a strong, renewed Europe that does not give up its values and play its role, which, in this case, must be that of building and preparing peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u41	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Conference on the future of the European Union, in drawing up the Europe of the new generations, requires us to look first at the present and the dramatic reality that we are living a few hundred kilometres from our borders. The war in Ukraine is bringing out more forcefully the incompleteness of a process that had been initiated by the founding fathers of the Union and that today, more than ever, should be brought to completion. Occasions like this Conference are certainly important, but we need an acceleration. The pandemic before and now the conflict triggered by Russia has shown that a stronger, more democratic, more supportive Europe is needed and that it can speak with one voice. The health emergency and the war, with all the economic repercussions they have caused, and the uncontrolled rise in energy and raw materials prices have confirmed that the European Union has the minimum level of government to address the major challenges of the future. The war in Ukraine seems to have brought the clock's hands back a long way: it seems to have returned to the times of the cold war and the opposition between the Eastern and Western blocs of the world, split again in two in a dangerous bipolarism that risks crushing Europe between China and the United States of America. Unfortunately, the times of the Pratica di Mare agreement are far away, where thanks to the mediation of Italy and the then President of the Council Silvio Berlusconi was signed a commitment of collaboration between NATO and Russia of Putin. [[Applause]] It was 2002 and with farsightedness Berlusconi already worked to include the Russian Federation in a new European security architecture. It was a historic agreement, which with the commitment of successive Italian governments and the European Union could inaugurate a new era of alliance and no longer of opposition between Europe, the United States, Russia, Japan and Australia; an alliance that would be able to contain Chinese, political, economic and military expansionism. Unfortunately, that was not the case. Today, in the absence of a strong, solid and independent Europe, what is likely to develop is a frozen war, that is, a conflict that ceases yes, but that in the absence of a peace treaty can resume at any time. In order to avoid such a scenario, it is essential for the European Union to make greater efforts to bring about the final end of the conflict. We cannot allow Erdogan's Turkey or China to build peace in Europe. We remain Atlanticists, but the war is not in Washington, but a few hours away from Rome and it is our duty - as President Berlusconi has already said - to protect Ukraine's freedom and territorial integrity, working for peace, democracy and the search for dialogue. [[Applause]] We cannot allow this war to become a conflict only temporarily frozen and Europe to become weakened. The future of the European Union should be quite different. Tomorrow's Europe must recover a renewed protagonism in the international chessboard, and this must go hand in hand with the recovery of European identity, that identity made up of Greek, Roman, Jewish-Christian roots and the illuminist values underlying our Constitutions. The war in Ukraine has shown that the word 'identity', so often despised by the ultra-progressive world, is actually an important, powerful word. Identity does not mean nationalism, it does not mean crushing the neighbour in the name of an alleged superiority; the identity of liberal democracies is made up of inclusion, dialogue, attention to rights and the protection of freedoms. [[Applause]] We must proudly claim our roots, European and Western culture, against the cancel cultures of those who wish to establish a dictatorship and not a healthy protection of minorities. This is an essential step: it is not only dictatorships or Islamic extremism that threaten our democratic model, but also the obscurantist pushes of those who break down the statues or want to censor Dostoevsky. Culture and identity, therefore, on the one hand, common foreign policy and defence on the other: it is essential - as we have said for years - to create a European army. Without the army there is no deterrent or contractual power. [[Applause]] The United States of Europe will not exist without an army. In order to do this, it is essential to overcome the unanimous vote of the European Council, which blocks too many important decisions. The Europe of the future will also have to overcome people's distrust of its institutions, citizens who will have to be more involved in its decision-making processes. In this sense, Forza Italia has long proposed that the European Parliament, which is unique in the world, should be given legislative initiative that it cannot make legislative proposals. The direct election of the President of the European Commission would also be necessary, so that it can be an expression of popular will. With regard to the economic challenges that we will have to face, it will be useful to permanently put austerity policies into the attic, which have characterized the recent past and imposed "tears and blood" measures, which have shown all their inadequacy and have come down as claves on families and businesses. The rules of the Stability and Growth Pact should be updated accordingly. The Conference should consider two substantial changes: on the one hand, making it clear that some public investment must be decommissioned from the constraint on State spending; on the other hand, the debt capacity of the European budget should be adjusted to finance public expenditure decided at Community level. It will certainly be necessary to continue with the issue of European securities in order to respond to the crisis. For a long time Forza Italia has been supporting the need for European bonds and history has proved us right. [[Applause]] We are now asking for a new recovery to intervene on the rise in energy and raw materials prices. A common energy policy can no longer be postponed at this point, so as not to force companies to transfer to consumers the increase in costs and to prevent families - as the European Central Bank has already denounced in the past few hours - from even drawing on their savings to pay their bills and to pay their daily expenses. [[Applause]] Energy and agri-food independence must become the Union's primary objectives of the future. In this regard, just one inscription, colleagues: we appreciate that the Movimento 5 Stars has repented and that now its members of government go to Azerbaijan to ask to increase the scope of the TAP, the same TAP that they strongly opposed. [[Applause]] It is also necessary to work for tax harmonisation between European countries. Tax fragmentation between Member States is something to be corrected because it creates distortions [[Applause]] and it benefits some countries to the detriment of others, and we can no longer allow that. President. - I conclude by pointing out that this is the Europe we would like to see. The Europeanist tradition of Forza Italia can only encourage the Union to do better and to do it quickly; we therefore want to vote for this agenda firmly because not only in this Parliament, but also in the European Parliament, and with the great family of the European People's Party to which we belong, we have always worked so that the United States of Europe is no longer just a project, but finally become a reality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u44	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have been following the work of COFE closely both as a party and as a political Commission of the European Union for a long time. I therefore think it would be useful to remind this House that this whole series of debates and discussions was initiated at the initiative of the citizens of the Union to enable everyone in Europe to share their ideas and help shape our future through Europe. The final result of this great work, which involved 52,433 participants on the platform and gave rise to 6,481 online events, organized by producing as many as 17,770 proposed ideas collected, will be presented next 29 and 30 April precisely in Strasbourg. In a few days, then, we will have a lot of material to discuss, discuss and work on for a better future for Europe. That is why I naturally ask the House first and then myself whether it would be useful to talk about it today. Colleagues, I am always very respectful of the work of the Commission and I see in this passage an unnecessary forcing: we are bypassing, in my opinion, somewhat disrespectfully, the work that has been started for a long time through a deal assigned to my Commission, that of the policies of the European Union, bringing to this House today an agenda without taking into account what has been done by our Commission. On this desire to put the flag on, in the face of all this anxiety of performance I can only make some reflections, and I will forgive our figures indicated by the Senate, but personally I believe that this strange, if not bizarre, way of working serves more to some parties of government in order to enhance and give visibility to some senators more than a real necessity in order to face in merit the European future. Allow me - this - to do in the interests of fairness precisely to the Commission and to the work we are doing as the Commission. But let us return to the Conference on the future of Europe. There has been no lack of criticism - on the method rather than on the substance - of this amount of work; criticism has gone from the way in which European citizens are consulted, which on several occasions have complained about the lack of transparency on the promulgation of ideas and the lack of reliability of the effective participation of online events. [[Applause]] There has indeed been little publicity from the European institutions about the Conference and for this reason, in my opinion, although the numbers I have read before may seem high, there has indeed been little participation, a sign of the total sense of remoteness and mistrust on the part of European citizens towards the European institutions themselves. It is not just a different Europe that needs different Europeans. It could have been an excellent experiment of democracy and transparency in the European Union and a good opportunity, but it did not succeed perfectly, perhaps also because of the pandemic that has certainly complicated the progress of the work. The ideas and contributions collected on the multilingual digital platform covered nine main topics: climate change and the environment, health, stronger economy, social justice and employment, the European Union in the world, values and rights, the rule of law and security, digital transformation, European democracy, migration, education, culture, youth and sport. Among all these points, economic recovery is one of the themes that has recorded the highest participation on the platform, given the recent difficulties caused by the pandemic crisis and geopolitical tensions. We, as League, in the various resolutions and motions tabled during this parliamentary term have always stated in writing that it is essential for us to start a debate in order to outline a rethink of the convergence parameters established by the Maastricht Treaty and, at the same time, to provide for the exclusion of productive investments and those for the security of the territory, infrastructure investments and those for the growth of the population concerning the environment, from the calculation of the parameters useful to the balance of the budget, from the deficit ratio GDP, in order to allow also the countries that must pursue the restructuring of the debt to revive the economy by investing in strategic sectors. Another topic that we were very fond of was migration: many views that emerged in the debate in the Conference call for stronger bilateral partnerships between individual Member States and African countries in order to address migration-related issues. Concerns have been raised about the risks caused by the extra-European migration flows of European civilisation and political stability. Several participants also focused on the use of illegal migration as a weapon. I think it is important here to remember the example of Turkey or Belarus. It's important not to forget. We, as League, have repeatedly put down key proposals to rethink the management of immigration in Europe. It is essential to combat trafficking in human beings in every possible way. [[Applause]] It is essential to put at the top of the various migration and security reforms a key principle: discouraging departures. It is also useful to support the creation in the countries of transit and to belong to special centres where immigrants can be started in order to verify immediately the possible existence of the requirements required to be admitted to the granting of the right of asylum and to commit at European level to the effective compliance with the Return Directive and readmission agreements concluded also at Community level, supporting their implementation. At the environmental level, with the green deal, the European Union committed itself to achieving the climate neutrality objective in 2050 and the new European Climate Law, which entered into force in July 2021, is precisely the instrument that transforms this political commitment into a binding obligation. It is necessary to provide adequate resources, to prevent the European plan from turning exclusively into financing to lose the transition in the most polluting countries and an excessive burden instead for other countries, in particular for the industrial sector of Italy. In terms of energy, nuclear energy has been included by the European Commission in taxonomy, recognising it as a sustainable technology for achieving environmental objectives. The International Energy Agency, not the League, has highlighted that in order to achieve the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 it will be necessary to increase the share of nuclear energy at global level. In this respect, it is useful to open a serious debate as soon as possible and no longer ideological. [[Applause]] Even if this is not contained in the voting system, we cannot ignore it. 11:40 a.m., followed by Bossi Simone. Today, more than ever, these are issues that lead us to a review of the times of the ecological transition; in fact, after what is happening, we believe that it is more than necessary to address them. Italy is one of the most difficult countries for the recent crisis in Ukraine and this has highlighted the need to have a secure, stable and independent national energy system, also supporting the recovery of the technological gap and advanced know-how on nuclear latest generation, through collaborations, cooperation activities, exchanges of scientific personnel, international and European projects, strengthening the institutions that operate in nuclear safety and radiation protection. Finally, Madam President, we can say that the Conference itself was a very good idea, but we probably do not think that the experiment has succeeded very well. Predicting bottom-up participation involving citizens, local communities, civil society in the process of rethinking and reforming the Union must be the basis for our approach to the European Union of the future. It is important, on the one hand, to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European institutions, giving greater importance to Parliament, the only body elected by direct universal suffrage, and at the same time to promote greater transparency of the other bodies, from the Commission to the various formations of the Council of the European Union. I am thinking in particular of the Economic and Financial Council (Ecofin), an essential institution that decides political and economic strategies of a Member State. This, and greater bottom-up participation that is not one-off, are ideas of those who really want to improve the European institution. For all these reasons we will vote on the majority agenda, which partly goes in this direction, aware that there are still many issues to be included and discussed at European level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u47	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, it is a pleasure to be here during the debate on this agenda, also for the role of the Italian Parliament's representative in the plenary assembly of the Conference on the Future of Europe, which I, together with my colleague Mr Alfieri, represent. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Colleagues, let me give you my colleague's speech. TAVERNA (M5S). I understand that perhaps we do not grasp the importance of this great and unique experiment of its kind, because it was an experiment of participatory democracy that really saw the citizens at the centre. It is an experiment of which the Movimento 5 Stars has also made itself a healthy carrier in unsuspecting times and which today is replicated in such an important way in international fora that they have covered, following the suggestions, a series of topics among which has acquired centrality the upheaval occurred in the heart of Europe for the unjustified invasion of Russia to the detriment of Ukraine; numerous were the topics of interest by the citizens' panels, who wanted to bring their voice within Europe. Climate change and the environment, health, democracy and European values, rights and the rule of law, security, economic strengthening, social justice, work and education, sport and digital transformation were discussed. When we talk about climate change and the environment, I have the pleasure of reminding Senator Giammarco that we have not regretted our positions; probably someone else should regret not having invested, in the past twenty years, in renewables that would have made Italy an energy-independent country and not in the serious situations we are facing today. [[Applause]] It would have been quite common today to focus on some issues. Personally, I was part of a health-related working group in which European citizens strongly called for community attention from Europe, including to health. The focus has been on a subject of which, perhaps because it is overwhelmed by problems that may seem greater, we do not speak sufficiently: this Europe of ours is an old country, an old country, a country that needs more attention on what are the policies towards the longevs. In particular, a lot of attention has been paid to healthy food and a healthy lifestyle, in order to accompany our fellow citizens to a healthy aging, a healthy relationship with food. We need to look at proper nutrition. These are the priorities, out of absurdity, which come from the bottom up. It is listening to these suggestions that should make us think that, today more than ever, the challenges we are facing are challenges arising from a pandemic, to which the European Union has given an impressive response. These challenges today concern the danger that our values are also in danger. I recall this very phrase: the challenges posed by the continuing pandemic emergency and now by the conflict in Ukraine have made clear the need for more effective action by the European Union to defend its fundamental values. The fundamental values are those of democracy. When we talk about participatory democracy, we talk about listening, we talk about undressing our supposed ambitions of knowing exactly what it is for others without listening to them, because we believe we are the only bearers of a truth. Instead, those citizens asked us to be heard. They called for this Europe to truly be the Europe of peoples, which, thanks to the battles of the 5 Star Movement, is now being watched; towards a unity of peoples, which tends, not only to focus on the economy, but on the real needs of our citizens, whom we want to represent. [[Applause]] To achieve these important objectives, the Conference on the future of Europe is only a starting point. We must embark on a serious reform process, not least with regard to its decision-making processes, including a process of revision of the Treaties. They seemed unchangeable monoliths; instead today the reality of the facts leads us to say that they must be changed. And the commitment that we are taking today, thanks to this agenda, remains crucial. In our opinion, the Government must support, in line with the historical role played by Italy since the start of the process of peaceful integration of Europe, the outcome of the Conference and promote all the reform initiatives inspired by the consultation of citizens and institutions, including a procedure for the ordinary revision of the Treaties, through the convening of a convention, to which representatives of national parliaments also participate, as provided for in Article 48 of the Treaty of the European Union. In the light of what has been described, given the enormous challenges ahead (but every challenge can also be an opportunity), I believe that this experience of direct democracy should be the compass through which future actions of ever greater scope for the benefit of all European citizens should be guided. Mine really wanted to be a thank-you to this House for giving attention to such an important path. I conclude with the words of Altiero Spinelli: "The European Federation did not appear as an ideology. He did not intend to color in this or in that way with existing power. It was the sober proposal to create a European democratic power. Announcement, therefore, the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u48	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 480, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Castellone, Tosato, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh, Unterberger, Alfieri and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 865-B, which was first approved by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I also warn that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, in second resolution, the constitutional bill will be approved if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The rapporteur, Senator Garruti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u50	Madam President, the draft Constitutional Act introduces into the Constitution the recognition of the serious and permanent disadvantage resulting from insularity. I recall that the measure was approved in first resolution by the Senate on 3 November 2021 and by the House on 30 March. Moreover, since no changes have been made to the work carried out at first reading in the Senate, it is now possible to proceed - as you mentioned - to the second resolution required by Article 138 of the Constitution, which does not provide for the possibility of making amendments, but which requires a qualified majority for approval. As regards the progress of the examination in the first resolution, I would remind you that the text has been defined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate, starting from a proposal for a popular initiative, and that a comprehensive cycle of informal hearings has been held which has involved, among others, constitutionalists, representatives of island territorial authorities and representatives of numerous associations and committees. On the substance, in the light of the debate held in the referee, the amendments aim to prevent the term "insularity" in the Constitution from being considered exclusively as a source of disadvantage and consequent economic and financial difficulties. For this reason, it should be recalled that an explicit reference to the dimension of insularity was already present within the Constitution before the controversial reform of Title V of 2001, Article 119, and that today it is proposed in the sense of a valorization of the islands, which manifest a peculiar form of identity. Isolanes, in fact, is also a way of being of some millions of inhabitants, with their specific cultural, historical and naturalistic character, which cannot and must not be isolated. In essence, we insert a fundamental card of recomposition in the mosaic of a concretely fair and supportive Republic. In short, President, the text approved by the Senate and the House consists of a single article, which - as said - amends Article 119 of the Constitution, providing that the Republic recognizes the peculiarities of the islands and promotes measures necessary to remove the disadvantages resulting from the insularity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u51	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u52	Madam President, fellow Senators, Government, following a bill of popular initiative today we amend Article 119 of the Constitution, adding a paragraph by which the Italian Republic recognises the peculiarity of the islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages resulting from insularity. This is not a constitutional reform of a merely compensation nature. In fact, it will allow to look at the large and small islands as a heritage to be valued not only from the tourist point of view, but also in its cultural, linguistic and biodiversity peculiarities, therefore in everything that constitutes an element of richness and diversity of our country. The integration of this constitutional principle and the subsequent legislative instruments will allow us to have the means to bridge the gap (or at least part of it) that separates things and people of the major and minor islands of our country from the rest of the Italian citizens. We think of Sicily and Sardinia and of the serious difficulties of connections with the mainland, with increased costs of the transport of people, goods and services that guarantee the territorial continuity. There are also problems in the water supply, housing conditions and waste disposal, not to mention the weight of health emergencies or fires, where the speed of intervention determines its effectiveness. Even Venice, where I live, with the many islands and islets, addresses many of the problems mentioned. There are indeed so many difficulties in the daily lives of the inhabitants, such as to penalise them. Last but not least, there is the time factor, which, with transports, expands considerably in the fulfillment of the normal daily chores that are done on land in half time. There are often other types of discomfort in island territories, such as higher rates of ageing of the resident population, as fewer economic opportunities encourage young people to move to the mainland. This results in reduced employment rates and lower labour force skills, as well as unemployment and depopulation, which are also stimulated by infrastructure shortages and high transport costs. The Italian Republic is finally called to recognize the peculiarity of the islands and their intrinsic disadvantage and promotes the necessary measures to remove the disadvantages associated with this condition, thus demonstrating the need for the whole national community to recognize this condition and ensure any necessary action to guarantee the inhabitants of the islands equal opportunities and equal rights of citizenship. This is a necessary step towards all those born and raised in the islands, stressing that the changes made in the Senate aimed at preventing the term "insularity" from being considered in the Constitution exclusively as a source of disadvantage and linked to mere economic and financial difficulties. For this reason, the reference has been inserted to the recognition of the peculiarities of the islands, expression with a broad and inclusive meaning of the promotion of specificity, which also underlies a cultural, historical and naturalistic valorization of these territories. I believe that the inhabitants of our islands will be able in the future to appreciate the constitutional changes that we are about to adopt today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u53	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for the third reading of this constitutional bill. I have already spoken in this House at the first reading, explaining the draft law in detail. I would like to make a brief summary of the importance of this measure today. This is a real historical recognition of the principle of insularity. With this bill, in fact, we are preparing to approve a proposal for a popular law, which was born thanks to the signature of 200,000 island, Sardinian and Sicilian citizens, but not only: in fact, there was also the commitment of the Sardinian and Sicilian Regional Councils. I want in particular to thank, in this regard, the regional council member Michele Cossa and especially the late Roberto Frongia, the city council member for public works, who had spent it to carry out this bill since 2017. With this bill we amend Article 119 of the Constitution, reinserting the principle of insularity. We recall, in fact, that the reform of Title V had abolished this principle, which was present from the outset in our Constitution. Today we even want to strengthen it. In fact, we stress that insularity is not simply a natural disadvantage of the islands, but a peculiarity of the islands themselves and above all we want to commit the Republic, the State, the Government to take concrete measures to overcome the many gaps that affect the islands, especially the infrastructural ones. In this regard, I would like to remind you that Sardinia needs important interventions in this respect and that we still have very dangerous roads. We do not have a state railway all over the east coast of the island; in fact, the state railway only crosses the other part of the island and this represents a remarkable gap for our citizens. But the gap for the islands are also others: we have a natural landscape to protect, with very fragile ecosystems. So, watch out for the environment, too. This measure is intended to urge the state to adopt measures that are truly structural: not only the necessary economic compensation, with burdens that are always borne by the citizens, but also real investments. In this respect, I would like to point out that the last budget law, the one for 2022, has provided EUR 100 million for the islands, but of course it will not be enough; every year we will have to allocate funds to overcome these disadvantages. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking all those who have dealt with it, particularly the senators, and by wishing that the principle of insularity really should be rejected by our legislator with concrete action. Not only is state intervention enough, but we also want European legislation to do so. [[Applause.]] 12:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u55	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank those who have allowed us to arrive here today, namely the citizens, the mayors and those who have promoted this initiative, which has reached 200,000 signatures: an important result, which has obviously also contributed to the political forces present, which I would like to thank in a special way today. In fact, in real life, when I go out, I go to the bar, I travel, I'm on the street, my Sicilian condition arouses great fascination in me. This of course thanks to the history of my Sicily, which boasts Greek settlements, which have chosen Sicily as the first colony, but also thanks to literature: I want to point out that most of the literature is Sicilian. Yet these elements of fascination and pride often become a source of humiliation and sometimes of difficulty. When I enter the Commissions, the fact of being southern, of working and living in the South and, even more, of being island, with all that follows, makes me feel in a state of difficulty, almost with the hat in my hand. However, today what has been recognized by our constituent Fathers, Europe and Italy all translate into an important measure. Those same people who appreciate me outside and perhaps in some of the Commission, on the other hand, suffer from my presence only because I am southern and therefore always defend the motives of the South, it seems to me that they live in a confused state, because the insularity is a fact. I would particularly like to thank the colleagues of the Forza Italia Group, whom I can truly say proudly that they belong, who have the greatest responsibility for this result, starting with our president, Anna Maria Berni. [[Applause]] who was for us, along with Senator Floris and also President Casellati of course, the protagonist of this measure. Insularity, as my colleagues have rightly said, is a right that has also been recognised through national studies, not Sicilian or Sardinian, or the smaller islands, which have confirmed that for us islanders the cost of living is 20% higher, with an annual cost ranging from 3,000 to 5,000 euros for each of us. This measure is therefore important and I hope that it will also be accepted by the Government as a warning to pay attention to those who will henceforth be taking the measures that will be taken, especially to bring to Europe those that allow true social cohesion. Today these differences are linked to important data, because they represent the interests of 6.5 million Italians living in the islands, the most important data at EU level after Brexit. Today we have the opportunity to have this text approved and to return to the will of the constituent Fathers, that is, an equality between North and South, but at this point I add "including islands." [[Applause]] The peculiarities are evident: from infrastructure to energy, from networks to health, and above all the serious problem of depopulation, given the immigration rates on the islands that are the highest of all. Recognition of insularity therefore means reduction of the burdens deriving from such territorial discontinuity, with people and goods that can finally move with lower costs. I hope that the Government will also apply this position in Europe and that it will also apply it at national level, from an economic but also fiscal point of view. The goal is not, as has been the case for all of us southern islanders, to always go with the hat in hand, but to demand the recognition of a right. Today this right is recognized to us and that is why I thank the Government and I would like to quote the text of Article 1, which in Article 119 of the Constitution, after the fifth paragraph, inserts the following: The Republic recognises the peculiarities of the Islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages resulting from the insularity of the Islands. This will bring an important change for those who listen to us. The island regions have specific geographical, economic, demographic and social characteristics which pose unique challenges in the context of the application of European policies: small size, therefore area, population, economy, reduced local market (with consequent great difficulties in achieving economies of scale), high transport costs, very complicated industrial relations that do not allow for development such as the North, lack of entrepreneurial competence, infrastructure and provision of services for enterprises compared to the North, compression of social and educational services to citizens, who recently suffer - those of the Mediterranean islands - the phenomenon of migration in more massive terms. At this point I do not think I have to repeat what has already been said, but I want to point out that this measure has had the consent of all political forces, with the votes in favour both at first reading and in the second between the House and the Senate, and for this I thank you, because we have shown that politics does not suck as we often hear. We are not here to take like or to increase the number of our followers as influencers: we are here to make a policy that puts the problems of Italy all, from North to South, including islands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u57	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day because the measure concerning the inclusion of the principle of insularity in the Constitution is back in the Chamber and it is therefore the Sicilian and Sardinian Members who have always lived the insularity and also suffered. If, on the one hand, the insularity and its remoteness from the continent - as we use to say - was in my opinion an opportunity for Sardinia to be a laboratory of genetics that selected genomes that gave our land the epithet of the centenarians, recognized all over the world, on the other hand today this condition of insularity is lived as a disadvantage and a ball at the foot of the economic development of Sardinian society. It is also enough to read today's newspapers, which highlight the problem of maritime and air transport caused by the uncertainty of carriers engaged in a territorial continuity sui generis, which has nothing to do with that of other European regions, as well as the high price increases for both passengers and goods: this is a decisive factor in limiting and preventing the long-awaited growth. There are clear responsibilities that must be sought in a stepmother attitude by the Italian State and the European institutions, which continue to trample on the rights of a people, as well as its special autonomy as a Region, unlike many others, even Italian. Today does not want to be the moment of recriminations, but the moment of awareness and the fight for the recognition of inalienable rights. For completeness I mention only two still unresolved points that must represent our battle horses for the next political struggles and that will allow our islands to compete in equal arms with the other regions of Europe: the inclusion of Sardinia and Sicily in the list of poor European regions and the recognition for Sardinia of the linguistic minority, that is, the Sardinian language, spoken by more than one million Italians and with it of the parliamentary representation by default, as happens for other realities such as the Val d'Aosta or the Trentino-Alto Adige, not succubi of the only barrier of 3 percent. When the European Economic Community was set up, in writing the Treaties, those who preceded us thought well of protecting the regions which, for geographical reasons of insularity, could be disadvantaged compared to the continental ones and for which there were derogations both for State aid and for the rules of maritime and air transport, allowing for a certain deregulation. Too bad that, while for many European countries we have been able to list the regions that we might call uncomfortable (the Azores for Portugal, Corsica and also the overseas territories for France, the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands for Spain, the Faroe Islands for Denmark), Italy has not indicated any region. Therefore, we in Sardinia, for example, live that state of perennial disadvantage compared to our neighbour Corsica, which translates into a less productive capacity and social well-being, and which pushes our fellow countrymen to seek it by emigrate. The political rise of President Draghi has illuded us that his international prestige could be put at the service of our cause, but perhaps, representing with our 1,600,000 inhabitants the size of two large Roman districts, we do not represent a sufficient critical mass and worthy of respect. Today, however, it wants to be a good day to allow us to add a new piece to improve our Constitution and try to make it fairer and more supportive. We are convinced that we will support this measure. Thank you and Fortza Paris. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u60	Mr President, Sicily and Sardinia, like the smaller islands, account for a serious socio-economic gap compared to the rest of Italy, continental Italy. The main indicators give back an alarming picture of the presence of strong employment imbalances, a high proportion of population at risk of poverty, higher transport costs, a serious infrastructural inequality and a general condition of backwardness of production structures, at least for the major islands. It is no coincidence that the original text of the Constitution contained, in the third paragraph of Article 119, a precise reference to insularity. The islands, perceived as geographically disadvantaged realities, were in fact receiving specific contributions from the central State. Mr President, today we are remedying an oversight that took place in 2001, with the reform of Title V, which was not always happy, when we forgot about those Italian citizens forced by a social disparity deriving from the territory in which they live. This constitutional bill of popular initiative, promoted in 2018, corrects this inequality, ensuring the inhabitants of those territories the support of the Republic and recognizing the peculiarities of the islands in order to promote the measures necessary to reduce the disadvantages deriving from this geographical limit. The aim of this change, however, is not merely the economic claim, but rather the definition of a specific finalization of resources to ensure the removal of the causes of this disadvantage. As mentioned, Italy after Brexit has become the first European country for number of island citizens, with more than 6,6 million inhabitants, about 12% of the Italian population of over 17 million European islands. By virtue of such a substantial figure, it is necessary to place the condition of insularity among the public political priorities. This is what emerges from the final report on the "Stima dei costi dell'insularità per la Sicilia" (Insularity Cost Statement for Sicily) published in 2021 by the Councillor for the Economy of the Sicilian Region and transmitted to the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, which estimates a loss of GDP of about 6 billion euros per year, with an increase per capita that varies between 600 and 2,000 euros: not indifferent figures for a Sicilian inhabitant, especially for certain categories of workers, such as farmers or craftsmen, forced to face every day higher expenses than the competitor of other Regions, from the cost for the transport of goods to the loved one of the raw materials necessary for production. Territorial discontinuity creates a real hidden tax for Sicilian citizens and businesses, as well as the Sardinian ones, quantified in about 6 billion per year. Specific geographical, economic, demographic and social characteristics penalise island regions for a number of factors, such as a limited local market and difficulties in achieving economies of scale, relations between low-developed industrial districts, infrastructure deficits and local provision of services for businesses. All these causes are leading thousands of citizens to move to the regions of northern Italy in search of better economic opportunities and lower business costs, thus determining the depopulation of the island territories, in particular of the internal areas and I am a direct witness. In the same way, we all remember the debate that arose following the reports of the island commuters on the caro-voli during the festivities, a structural problem of our country, to which the Government Count 2 tried to remedy with specific measures for the Sicilian and Sardinian residents. In particular, with regard to the territorial continuity rights of Sicilians, it was requested that a scheme to reduce the cost of air and maritime transport be absent, as already happens for Sardinia, also through the provision of the necessary financial resources. Colleagues, this and many other aspects of the daily life of every inhabitant of the islands cannot be burdened by additional costs that penalize their daily lives. That is why these other measures - I am also thinking of the draft law establishing mountain free zones in Sicily, which is still in the Senate Finance Commission also because President Musumeci and Councillor Armao are unwilling to identify the sums to be allocated to this specific bill - more than ever today they represent a priority to give our territories a prospect of growth, countering demographic decline and economic desertification, accelerated by the emergency health and, last, by the current geopolitical crisis. Colleagues, today I want to consider this parliamentary passage as the first act of a path aimed at compensating the condition of insularity and necessary to cope with the gap and the hidden burdens on every citizen or enterprise resident in the islands, thus giving a response to the Italian citizens who face structural and permanent difficulties peculiar to these territories, so as to entail additional costs that weigh on their growth prospects and on those of future generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u61	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u64	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to spend as little time as possible on this issue, although I realize that today we are taking a further step towards achieving a goal that those who live in the islands - like me - and those who know the conditions in which the islanders live can be a historic goal. For years it has been proposed to overcome the disadvantages deriving from the condition of insularity and today we finally see, precisely, the strip of the finish line and we hope that in a very short time, after today's approval in the Senate, we will also arrive at the approval of the House. I believe it is necessary to join in the thanks already made by my colleague Evangelista earlier, because this measure, which has been hoped for for for a long time, is beginning to emerge in its entirety today, and I must admit that we owe it to the stubbornness of the late Regional Councillor Frongia, who has followed step by step the start of the process, and also to his party colleagues: the former parliamentarians Massimo Fantola and Michele Cossa, to whom we really owe all our thanks. Thank you, which I believe should also be made by myself to the Sardinian colleagues who followed the measure: I am referring in particular to Mr Floris, whom I spoke to last night, who unfortunately is not here today for health reasons, who was so sorry that he could not participate in what we Sardinians feel to be a very important measure, because perhaps conditions are being created to bridge the gap that we are constantly complaining about; it has become almost a torment that we are crying over the existing gap. We Sardinians in particular - but it is Sicilian they are not less, and the islanders in general - are people with a strong character; people used to working with a low head and never to demand too much. And I want to stress this again. At first it was thought by some that they were asking for a payment of money: that is not what they are asking for. We simply ask the respect of those basically equal conditions that had been conceived by the constituent Fathers, who thought of the national cohesion and equal treatment of all regions, from the North to the South, including islands, as is customary to say. Well, with this measure, the islanders are not asking for money; they simply ask to fill those disadvantages with which we are dealing daily. Take care, I say we involve all of you, because those disadvantages are the same that you have to face when you decide to come, for example, to Sardinia, and you know perfectly well - it is spoken about daily in the newspapers - what are the costs that must be faced in order to reach Sardinia. The problem of the territorial continuity of Sardinia - which, by chance, in Corsica has been tackled and resolved in a short time - is still in the air. We believe that this is the first real step so that we can achieve territorial continuity not only of the people, but also of the goods between the Peninsula and Sardinia, which allows in essence economic development. In short, we ask to start from the same conditions as all the other Regions of Italy. This is the path that the measure in our examination intends to take and it is for this reason that I am very satisfied. This morning, when I was still undecided whether to intervene or not, I was thinking that in fact - I am not ashamed to say it - it is also with a little 'emotion that I face this moment, which for the islanders can be called truly historical. Having the opportunity, thanks to the parliamentary mandate given to me, to participate in this moment objectively fills me with satisfaction and also with pride. As I have already said, there are many gaps and differences. Obviously, when we are all really on the same level thanks to the measures that the state, the country, the national government will have to adopt also towards the island territories in order to fill the gaps of which I have spoken, it will be up to us, to our desire to work and to do, to put ourselves on the same level and to achieve the objectives we have long taken responsibility for, but that we have objective difficulties to achieve. It is a very special moment, but I believe that you all have understood the importance of this reasoning. As I said, in the name of that national cohesion which we often waver, but which we also often forget, we should all take on board together and understand the importance of the measure that we are going to adopt. I also hope that, in a very short time, there will be the House's approval, so that we can all start together for the improvement of the economy, not only local but also national. Surely we can achieve the results we hope for. I would like to point out, for example, by referring to my territory, which is what I know best, that looking at a map of Sardinia with the state of the railways, we realize first of all that there is no electrification. That's all you think about. In addition, half of Sardinia, its entire eastern part, has no railways. I live in a provincial capital, a small country, say, of 37,000 inhabitants, where there is a narrow-gauge railway. We are fighting and trying, also through the funds of the PNRR, or whatever through European funds that seem to be there, to put ourselves on par with the rest of Italy also from the point of view of the railway network. Well, when I talk about the disadvantages of our territories, that's what I'm talking about. We're moving on today. I thank all of you, also for the will you have shown, for the sharing of this important provision and of course I announce the favorable vote by the Group of Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano. I really feel, at this moment, that I want to close, once again, with a motto that is not only of the Sardinian Action Party. Our colleague, Carlo Doria, repeats this at each of his speeches and this time I think it is really useful to close my speech with that cry that was of the Brigade Sassari, which cost the lives of so many young people, but which brings together all the Sardinians who really feel so within a cohesive Italy: Fortza Paris. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u67	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we are at the third reading of this measure of popular initiative which leads us to the amendment of Article 119 of the Constitution, including a very important concept: the right of all citizens living on the islands to have the same possibilities and conditions of life as citizens living on the Continent. I can only basically reiterate what we said at the first reading in this House in November 2021. This is an important act, which recognizes to these citizens the difficulty of living in these territories, albeit beautiful. I therefore think that the measure under discussion can in fact establish the equal rights they must have, such as education, health and above all the right to carry out their work and life as other citizens. We know that there are still strong elements of substantial discrimination against the communities of the islands, but we must also stress that there are different conditions within these island communities. I am referring to those who live in the major islands, such as Sicily and Sardinia, compared to the citizens who live in the smaller islands. We know what are the most frequently proposed problems, which I think are well known to all: transport, water supply, health care, education, housing conditions and waste disposal, hydrogeological disruption and even population desertification, just to mention the most striking. If, therefore, this process of desertification of our islands is to be stopped (I am referring in particular to the smaller ones, but nevertheless there are difficulties especially for young people, even for the larger islands), we must implement direct, concrete measures. In this respect, I wonder, for example, what happened to the framework law on islands, which was adopted in the Commission and which I still do not think has been implemented in practice. Therefore, the amendment to Article 119 of the Constitution certainly goes in this direction, but we must be effective in drawing up administrative acts that help all citizens living in these islands and therefore prepare concrete actions to relaunch the economy. This, ladies and gentlemen, must not be considered a privilege for these citizens, but the only remedy to compensate for the difficulties of those living in the islands, where production costs are much higher than in the rest of Europe because of the lack of infrastructure; therefore, within these territories an infrastructure design plan must also be implemented. I would also like to reiterate one aspect that I mentioned earlier. I believe that intellectual honesty must be shown that within the insularity there are differences between those who live on the two major islands. I have heard my colleagues from Sardinia and Sicily talking with emphasis about this, but we must also think about those who live in the smaller islands. We are talking about about about 150,000 inhabitants scattered in about 40 islands, because this is the geographical configuration of our nation. From this point of view, we must have further consideration, because very often in the smaller islands there is also a lack of essential services, schools, hospitals, first aid and drinking water networks. I believe that, also thanks to this measure, perhaps there will be greater attention, but it must be put into concrete actions, with investments and resources that go in these directions. Having said that, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u70	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this draft Constitutional Reform Act, because this is an important act for us. Since we are at second reading, I will try to sum up the reasons for the parliamentary path of this special and significant measure. Not only are we faced with constitutional reform, but for the first time we are faced with a constitutional change that fully reflects the content of a bill of popular initiative, created by a promoting committee that has put pressure in a positive direction on Parliament and has managed to bring to the attention of Parliament an issue undoubtedly important. We must know that today, in some way, we fill a gap and repair what can be called a wrong. In the 2001 constitutional reform, when Title V was changed, any reference to the principle of insularity, which was present in the original wording of our Constitution, was removed from Article 119. And he was justly present. That wrong is healed today. In my opinion, it is important that it be healed and it is important that it be healed in the way we do it with this reform, with the wording of the new Article 119, and also on the basis of the discussion we have made in order to arrive at this formulation. What I would like to say is that, in the wording of the new Article 119, we do not recognise the principle of insularity just because the islands have a particular vulnerability and are the bearers of disadvantages. We recognize the principle of insularity because the islands are bearers of important peculiarities, which are part of the history of our territory and our culture. Of course, when we do such an act, we must express - in my opinion - satisfaction that it finds sanction, at constitutional level, an important principle; for the fact that we align ourselves with a rule peacefully reported in all the most important treaties at continental level: from Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but the principle was already present in the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997, as we know well. Above all, this action of ours constitutes a commitment, then, in the context of ordinary legislation and everyday practical acts, to take on subsequent actions with the principle that is expressed and this opportunity should absolutely not be lacking in the coming months and years. As President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would also like to point out, because this is an issue that I am keen on and I could not help noticing, that this is the fourth constitutional reform that we are able to do in this parliamentary term. We arrive today very close to the finish line. I am optimistic and I think there will be no problem. There is a fifth vote, which has already had a first vote in our parliamentary branch. We are all aware of the difficulties, the extremely complex situation in which we have found ourselves in this parliamentary term in order to get our work on the ground of institutional reforms. We are not hiding these difficulties. We know that they limit our action and allow us to do less than we would like to do. I believe, however, that, in this rough terrain, having managed to carry out these initiatives is something that is not without importance. For these reasons, I renew the declaration of support of the Democratic Party Group for this initiative of constitutional reform, obviously expressing my thanks, starting from the Sardinian citizens who have animated the promoting committee and the senators of Sardinia who have been the strongest driver for this initiative. And I renew the Democratic Party's support for the constitutional reform amending Article 119, which recognises the position of disadvantage and the peculiarities - I repeat - of the island regions of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u73	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, here we are at the second stage of the draft reform of this constitutional law, which is so important for our territories. Already in the explanation of vote that we made as Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali, at first reading, we defined this as a very important event, because the arrival at the attention of the Assembly of the text was the result of a popular initiative, as Mr Parrini recalled; an exception to the sad rule of popular-initiative laws, which are never discussed and approved by the Assemblies. The draft Constitutional Reform Act we are about to vote on seeks, therefore, to remedy a very serious and serious error, made in 2001 with the reform of Title V of the Constitution, which, with the new wording of Article 119, has led to the disappearance of any reference to the enhancement of the Mezzogiorno and the islands as a priority objective. There is therefore not only the concept of insularity, but also the strong and urgent question of the rebalancing of assistance for the Mezzogiorno and the islands. There is no doubt that, with the approval of this constitutional law, the spotlight on the condition of discomfort and marginalization that live in the communities that inhabit our islands is on. When we talk about islands, we immediately think about the larger ones, such as Sardinia and Sicily. But we are also the small island country. Just these days I have received an email from the promoters of a collection of signatures among the citizens of the Aeolian Islands, who fight against the downsizing of their hospital and pose the theme of the right to health equal for all. Unfortunately, we know what indiscriminate cuts to public health have meant in the pre-Covid era. Without going into the substance of the matter, I wanted to mention it today to stress the importance of recognizing the peculiarities of the islands and overcoming the disadvantages resulting from insularity. This is a first step today, which allows us to get the right recognition of the disadvantage in Europe and, therefore, the possibility of access to rebalancing measures. But we cannot be satisfied until what we are about to amend in our Constitution is translated into concrete measures in support of our communities. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to return to a central point: with the reform of Title V of the Constitution a step has been taken back from the same debate that was held in the constituent Assembly, where they posed the problem of recognizing the specificity of the condition of disadvantage resulting from the insularity. Today, then, in a certain sense, we make peace with the islands. I have mentioned the health issue, but I would also like to remind you of the transport issue. As regards road networks, the index 100 for Italy is 87.1 for the Mezzogiorno and 45.59 for Sardinia. As regards rail networks, the index 100 for Italy means 87,81 for the Mezzogiorno and 15,06 for Sardinia. I do not stop here, because, in addition to health and infrastructure, there is also the environment: we know that islands are more fragile ecosystems, particularly vulnerable to climate change. Then we have the very serious problem of unemployment and depopulation, issues which have become particularly serious in recent years. This fundamental bill is not only the formal transcription of a geographical condition within the Constitutional Charter, but also the recognition, in our Constitution, of the objective disadvantages associated with it - this is the point - which strongly raises the question of compliance with Article 3 and, therefore, of rebalancing. It is certainly a national theme, which concerns our identity, made of islands as large as Sardinia and Sicily, but also small ones (let's think of the Tuscan archipelago, the Pontine islands, the Aeolian islands). It is therefore a characteristic and identity issue of ours, but also a European one. There are delays to be filled very strongly. Hence the recognition of the condition of insularity and its insertion - finally - also in the Constitution, after its cancellation with the reform of Title V, are certainly a very important step, a constitutional recognition of the disadvantage and a commitment of the Republic to rebalancing. For this reason, we will be voting strongly in favour of this draft law, in which there really is a commitment to remedy this disadvantage and to put in place all the necessary measures for rebalancing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u76	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of constitutional reform, to which we are particularly bound by a feeling of birthright. As President Bernini reminded me a few minutes ago, this measure was born precisely by the will of the Forza Italia Group and our colleague, Senator Floris, who today - it was recalled a moment ago by the representative of Italia Viva, Senator Cucca - is missing for health reasons and to whom our wishes for prompt recovery go. [[Applause]] I want to remind you that he should have made the explanation of vote, but I take his place because I think it is absolutely essential to highlight certain aspects of this constitutional reform which, in fact, some of my colleagues have already referred to today. I was pleased to hear the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who belonged to the Democratic Party Group, remember how the vulnus that opened when the reform of Title V of the Constitution was approved was healthy. Since that is a reform wanted by the center-left, I am pleased that he is a representative of the Democratic Party to remember that. It is true, on that occasion, that the idea of including the concept of insularity in our Constitutional Charter, although discussed in Parliament's debates and in the Commission, was lost. It was a missed opportunity. They have lost some years and finally in this legislature we succeed today, with satisfaction, to fill that vulnus and to heal that error that was committed a few years ago. For the truth, already at the time of the constituent assembly we discussed how the Italian islands should be taken into account by our Constitution. Well, unfortunately, this failed to do so, but we can do so today with a constitutional reform measure. This is an area where I personally believe it is absolutely necessary to legislate through constitutional reform. As I have always said in this House, as in the Commission, if we want to amend our Constitution, we must intervene on its entirety, taking into account every aspect and every article of each Title so that the balances that support the Constitutional Charter - it is one of the most beautiful in the world - cannot be cracked and, therefore, staggered with commercial interventions such as the one concerning the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, which has certainly modified our Constitution in preuius. [[Applause]] A serious mistake was made, giving food as an anti-politics food a reduction in the representation of the territories. Our islands will also have a lower territorial representation, my dear colleague Mr Cucca, as well as the smaller regions. Paradoxically, the strongest regions have benefited asymmetrically at the expense of the weaker, less populous and, therefore, less represented in Parliament; and even worse for those islands, which are obviously seriously affected by the wrong measure, of which perhaps today the representatives of this House, even those who promoted that reform, are largely repentant. But let's get back to the question of insularity. It is clear and clear that being surrounded by waters has a negative effect on trade, trade, the transport of persons and goods. Some have spoken of a deep sense of belonging. I remember Mr Cucca's words: I really liked his speech, especially when he explained, as a Sardinian person, which is (proudly Sardinian), for how long the voice of the Sardinians - and not only of the Sicilians, but of the Sardinians to a greater extent - and how much the handicap of living on an island completely surrounded by water has been, which clearly causes deficits and problems in all sectors of the economy, trade and the transport of people. The senator mentioned a serious problem, which concerns not only roads and motorways, but also and above all railways. I believe that this is not a minor aspect. It is right to remember, as a constitutionalist, which are - as Mr Parrini did just now - that there are other cases in Europe where the issue of islands has been seriously addressed from the outset by their respective Constitutions. The most important and significant case, which perhaps has been dealt with in a clearer and more obvious way, with greater impetus and greater will for a solution, is the Spanish one: Spain has included in its Constitutional Charter four articles dealing with the principle of insularity. Spain is the typical country of differentiated regionalism and has reserved a special role to the islands, clearly establishing the role and strategic function of the islands, the identity and specialty of the inhabitants of the islands, their way of life and work, which has certainly been formed over the centuries and therefore has a specificity compared to the other peoples of the mainland. They must be guaranteed the free movement - as I said earlier - of goods, transport and people, and there can be no difference, no difference in treatment between them and those living on land. Another important case of a country which has certainly taken into account the insularity is Portugal: the island of Madeira and the Azores have their specific features; it is not only the only Portuguese regions that legislate - which have no chance of doing the provinces that are on the mainland of Portugal - but also have a specificity included in the Portuguese Constitution. We are a little late to our European cousins. But what, in conclusion, determines a constitutional rule? Is it just a statement of principle? We want to take into account the insularity: what does it mean? What, in fact, does it provoke in our constitutional and regulatory structure and system? First of all all the rules and laws in conflict with or in violation of the concept of insularity and their constitutional derivation can be the subject of constitutional scrutiny and, therefore, can be challenged and declared illegitimate by our Constitutional Court. And that's not a small thing. If a rule could up to now be contrary to this principle and not be declared unconstitutional, from the moment when the House of Deputies approves this constitutional reform at fourth reading, the same rule can be declared illegitimate at constitutional level. This is the first aspect, the first obvious consequence of such a constitutional reform. But it's not just that. A rule of this kind - it is perhaps the one that I like most - aims to make the legislator aware of virtuous legislative behaviours and choices and, therefore, promotional rules for the structural development of the islands (i.e. railways). Such a rule must certainly be an incentive for the legislator to try to provide for those handicaps. One last point before concluding my speech: let us not forget the so-called smaller islands, no one has talked about them, but Italy is characterized by many smaller islands. [[Applause]] , completely surrounded by the waters, small, where they live the realities that we cannot forget, from the archipelago bridge to that of the bell islands to that of the Egadi to the Tuscan one, to the Aeolian ones, to the Tremiti. There are many people who live in those small islands that should not be forgotten, but on the contrary supported. I therefore declare the Forza Italia Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u79	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today in this House we are going to take that long-awaited step forward: the third reading of the bill of popular initiative, so that islands such as Sardinia and Sicily can be recognised as the natural disadvantage of insularity and introduce the necessary measures to ensure effective equality and real enjoyment of inalienable individual rights, which was eliminated in 2001 - as has already been said - with the reform of Title V. I would like to thank the President of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Parrini, and his members, for giving a favourable opinion on the text. Today's vote, which I hope will be unanimous, will follow the last passage to the House that, if it happens within the summer, will soon lead us to the expected finish line. Dear President, kind senators, you cannot imagine how important it is for us Sardinians to approve this bill which adds the following paragraph to Article 119: The Republic recognises the peculiarity of the Islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages of insularity. There are several essential points I would like to mention. Among these, I quote the extension to all territorial authorities, and not only to the Regions as currently envisaged, the autonomy of income and expenditure, so that they enjoy autonomous resources and can fix and apply their own taxes and revenues; the application for state law, the establishment of an equalisation fund absent in the previous text is consistent with the logic of fiscal decentralisation in which the territories are responsible, in the choices of expenditure and in the related decisions, for their financing; intervention of support of territories in which revenues are not adequate and is therefore a reason for less development; less growth measured by the lower fiscal capacity and not by the administrative inefficiency of the territorial body; additional state resources, special interventions in favour of those entities in order to pursue one of the following aims: to promote economic development, cohesion and social solidarity, to renew economic imbalances and to promote the exercise of the rights of persons. It is precisely the existence of the geographical condition, the insularity, which constitutes its specialty, which is reflected in the sectors of the economy, in the way we do business, in the cost of transport and, at a time when digital innovation is applied everywhere to new technologies for a strong propensity to change, it is not easy - believe me - for us. This is why it is urgent to intervene and this law will be an excellent tool, an excellent measure that will necessarily have to be filled with content. The State will then have to be the bearer of this project. The Sardinian citizens have understood that a new scenario will open for the islands that has involved, in addition to institutional representatives, municipalities, universities, trade unions and professional associations, schools, migrant circles and that provides for equal opportunities especially in the world of work, where they will compete on equal terms of departure. It is a battle in synergy with Sicily, the concept is a conscious insularity, where the protection of the landscape, civic uses, language and culture can have an adequate recognition. I would like to point out that from this important initiative - born about five years ago with a strong proposal and decided through the collection of 200,000 signatures; the promotion of a referendum; the committee led by the late Mr Frongia; the scientific committee led by Professor Mongiu; the establishment of a special regional committee chaired by Mr Michele Costa and the continuation of the parliamentary process of the constitutional bill - have included numerous legislative initiatives by the Regional Council and the Sardinian parliamentarians of all political groups, which have decisively strengthened the need to fill the gap due to the serious natural disadvantage with a compactness that is rarely found. As a parliamentary representative, I cannot tolerate a productive island having to leave with a huge deficit like it has today. There is the energy problem, primarily due to the lack of methane, and the transport of energy at very high costs, which also applies to waste and its management. At a time like this, when the expensive bills bring Italy to its knees and not only families and businesses are affected, the high energy also affects the local authorities, with the risk of cuts for services. Let us imagine the consequences for those who are disadvantaged. In the island territories we have no possibility to bridge the territorial discontinuity with infrastructural interventions. We need immaterial interventions that take their nature into account. The State aid scheme is often ineffective and is not able to support companies. Targeted legal arrangements and specific European regulations are needed to steer future policy towards the transport and long-term energy sector. For these reasons, the recognition of the principle of insularity in the Constitution has gathered the consent of all civil society and not only. It represents a transversal political and social battle. It combines all Sardinian political groups, cultural associations, businesses, the world of volunteering, culture and sport. Therefore, on behalf of my Group, I am so proud to vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u82	FENU (M5S). Mr President, I did not do so in the speech at first reading of the constitutional bill, but I intend to do so now: in addition to thanking all the promoters of the popular initiative and my fellow Members, particularly the Sardinian senators who have never failed to support the proposal, I intend to address a thought and thanks to Roberto Frongia, who was one of the main promoters of the bill of popular initiative, who I had the honour of knowing and appreciating and who is no longer there. He was an excellent politician and a Sardinian. Among the characteristics that are often attributed to us Sardinians are stubbornness and mistrust. I believe that these characteristics are more honestly translated into a strong determination and a strong autonomy of thought. Roberto Frongia had these characteristics, to which I would add honesty. These are elements that I would also attribute to colleagues here in the Senate, who at this juncture allowed us, although few, to win the consent of all colleagues and even non-islanders. Features such as the autonomy of thought and a certain skeptical look at too easy thesis should somehow assume everyone, especially in delicate fringes for the future of our country, like what we are living. Since the elimination of the already appointed third paragraph of Article 119 and the constitutional reform of Title V, we have met, while relying on Community law and the integration of its principles, such as the national one, to a dilution of the constitutional mission on the rebalancing of the areas of Italy. The removal of the specification for islands and the Mezzogiorno from the Constitutional Charter has led to a failure to recognise a condition in fact. So I wonder: does not all the data available show us an administrative, political, infrastructural and economic disadvantage in the South and the islands? Are we not all aware of how many of our fellow citizens are lacking in order to be able to express their full potential? How many of our Sardinian and Sicilian boys and girls, who study or work outside the Region, are forced to make fatal jumps simply to be able to return home to see their families again? I think this rule is useful to eliminate certain twists. Our historical development has meant that the energies of our fellow citizens were concentrated in other parts of Italy. For too long - even now it is so - the islands have in fact recorded flows of emigration to levels not worthy of the country that we are. The principle of insularity cannot be underestimated. What has been said so far about the obvious inequalities in both public and private investment has forced the islands - and I would like to extend the concept to the whole of the South - to a condition of substantial subalternity with respect to the rest of the country. All this, however, did not lead to a impoverishment of the spirit of its citizens. The principle of insularity is a certain resilience and represents a red thread that unites all the island peoples: we see it everywhere in the world and trace it as a predominant trait, together with the demands of autonomy. The incorporation in the Constitution of recognition of these peculiarities achieves - on the one hand - an additional step towards substantial equality and, on the other hand, a commitment by the Republic to ensure that certain shortcomings are addressed. This change creeps into a broader discourse about how we look at ourselves as a community for which development, if not distributed, can only make sense for raw statistics. It is the communities, in fact, the heart of our markets and it is from there that the energies and intelligences are born that go to feed our enterprises and our institutions. A uneven distribution of opportunities is not wrong only from an ethical point of view, but from the point of view of economic theory. The dispersion that our young people face, which confront with a lack of opportunity and have as their only prospect emigration, pushes some to undertake jumps in the dark and others, especially those that remain, simply to lower their expectations. I believe that it is in the spirit of this Constitutional Charter that anyone can get what he wants from life, or at least try. In conclusion, the Movimento 5 Stars believed a lot in this bill. For this reason, I would like to thank my colleagues, starting with the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the rapporteur, Senator Vincenzo Garruti, and to announce the strong vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u83	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required to vote on a constitutional bill in the second resolution. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot for the second resolution on the constitutional bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in second resolution with a majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] As agreed in the short term, the sitting is suspended for sanitization and will resume at 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.10 a.m. and resumed at 16.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u84	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2414. The rapporteur, Senator Cangini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u85	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we are discussing today in the Senate Chamber the law of government initiative to celebrate in 2026 the anniversary of the eighth centenary of the death of Saint Francis of Assisi. To this end it is planned to set up a national committee at the Ministry of Culture, which is entrusted with the preparation of the plan of the celebration initiatives. The committee consists of twenty members, who may add three additional members, appointed by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The members of the committee are chosen from representatives of Italian and international culture who have proven competence in the study of the life and works of the saint of Assisi. The Chairman of the National Committee shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. With regard to the other members, two are appointed by the Minister of Culture, two by the Minister of Tourism, three by the Minister of Education in agreement with the Minister of University, one by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, two by the unified Conference, two by the Region of Umbria, two by the Municipality of Assisi, one by the bishop of the diocese Assisi-Nocera Umbra-Gualdo Tadino, two by the Conference of Ministers General of the First Franciscan Order and of the Third Regular Order and one by the International Society of Franciscan Studies. The mayor of the City of Assisi is a member of the national committee. The Committee is allocated a contribution of EUR 4.510,000 for the years 2022 to 2028. Other contributions from public and private bodies, bequests, donations and other liberalities may now also be made. The activities concern the celebrations, will be of a cultural character, but also aimed at promoting the economic development of the territories concerned with clearly positive repercussions for the tourist sector. By decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Culture, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, with the Minister for Tourism and the Unified Conference, the criteria for the annual allocation and allocation of the contribution to the realization of the cultural programme relating to life, work and places related to the figure of St. Francis will be established. The program will include, among other things, the publication and edition of the sources on life, on the work of St. Francis of Assisi and on the origins of the Franciscan order by the International Society of Franciscan Studies, in coordination with the National Edition of Franciscan sources; the publication of the medieval catalogue of the ancient municipal fund; the cataloguing of the ancient background of the printed books of the municipal library, preserved at the monastery of Assisi. Colleagues, I would just add a personal consideration. It is not necessary to have received the gift of faith in order to understand the symbolic importance of the figure of St. Francis, symbol of Italy and its patron - as we know - symbol of the protection and protection of the environment, a very topical theme, as well as the theme of peace, a word perhaps a little abused today, but obviously of close relevance; I would also say symbol of free will, having chosen the saint to renounce the privileges of his birth and his riches and having chosen a type of life consistent with his own ideal. It is a symbol of life, perhaps, because the "Cantic of creatures" in its apparent naivety, is in fact a hymn to the life, beauty and harmony of the cosmos and an encouragement to accept life in all its manifestations, including the dead sister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u86	We join in the sensitivity manifested in Senator Cangini's intervention. The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u89	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, on 3 October 2026 we will be celebrating an important anniversary, the eight hundred years since the death of Saint Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of Italy, which represents the universal values of peace, brotherhood and ecumenism among peoples throughout the world. It is precisely on the world value of values that has embodied and continues to incarnate St. Francis that the measure under consideration is founded. Saint Francis is a saint known and loved in the world for his life choices: poverty, closeness and help to the most fragile, incessant search for peace. Its history, its values and its teachings constitute a piece of our history and the bill under consideration gives us the opportunity to remember it solemnly. It is indicative - and I would like to focus on this - of Article 1 of the draft law, namely the affirmation of the aim of promoting the development of culture and scientific research, but also the enhancement and protection of the historical and artistic heritage of Italy which, together, serve as a framework for the system in which the proposal to celebrate this important figure is inserted through the establishment of an ad hoc national committee. This committee was born with the task of celebrating a cultural program that highlights life, work and of course the places related to the figure of St. Francis, through scientific and cultural manifestations. This is a rare occasion for our country and in particular for the places that are directly involved. This series of important events, which will follow the Jubilee of 2025, represents in fact an event of strategic importance, for which the city of Assisi, but also the whole Umbria Region must be found ready, since there will be a strong increase of tourist flows, with very positive repercussions for the whole national territory. Thanks to the funds allocated by the bill in question, Assisi and Umbria have a unique opportunity to be at the center of the world, invest and seize the opportunity to relaunch tourism and the economy. This is a great opportunity not only to revitalize tourism, but to make known those values and that teaching in the places of St. Francis of Assisi. Attention is also fundamental to the aspects of the Franciscan message concerning respect and care for the environment, dialogue between religions and peaceful coexistence between peoples. For this reason it is necessary to thank the Government today for the important stimulus provided by this bill, but I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Nencini and Senator Cangini, for the work done in 7th Commission, together with the mayor of Assisi, who immediately made his valuable contribution to the success of the parliamentary work. Because of the importance, first of all certainly symbolic, of the measure under consideration, all I do is to vote in favour of the Italian Group Viva-PSI. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u92	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, with the measure under consideration, Parliament, the Government and the State are doing a sort of due act, that is, they are actually celebrating a technical, mechanical occasion, so to speak, the anniversary of the eight centuries since the death of Francesco d'Assisi, which took place on 3 October 1226. Mr President, I imagine, however, that in the idea of all of us this celebration comes out on the exquisitely celebrative side to embrace what we actually celebrate, namely a system of values that, over time, the figure of Francis represented and materialized. All this in a city, in a territory, in a region and in a nation such as Italy, of which Francis is patron, evidently unanimously recognized, who live this reality and try to transfer it and pass it on. I come from Umbria and have lived for a few years in Assisi: colleagues, I can testify to you that, in fact, in those places you can breathe what John Paul II called the spirit of Assisi; now, it is really complicated to describe how to act in order to succeed in materializing it in the use of the resources made available. The objective is to find a link, even at a celebratory moment, between a due act, which we obviously approve and appreciate (and advance that we will vote in favour), achieved by the Government and the State with respect to the need to make available organizational and economic and financial structures to celebrate worthily, over several years, the very important anniversary and a system of values that, more than ever before, is absolutely indispensable to absorb, transfer, pass on and receive fully in everyday life, in the government of the States and the destinies of the communities that are recognized in the States, for example, today of Europe: it is a truly difficult and difficult undertaking, which remains at the head of this committee, on which we recommend and ask for the utmost attention, Mr President, because it will have the difficult task of leaving an empty celebration of the eight centuries of recurrence from the death of the saint in order to enter, instead, into a logic of preservation and transfer of indispensablevalues , in this historical moment more thanever , more thanever. It is not obvious that this will happen, colleagues. Not because of controversy, I remember and I quote a passage (here is my colleague Modena, who lived as protagonist that season): when I was regional councillor of the Umbria Region, we wrote a re-edition of the regional statute, which is a sort of constitution of the regional community of Umbria (I repeat that I remember it not because of polemic vis, but only to help understand the difficulty of transferring these values in an absolutely shared way); well, we failed to indicate, in article 1 of the status of the Region, those represented by Francis and Benedict as founding values of the regional community of Umbria. We couldn't. We were in opposition and the majority of the time identified Capitini as the one who embodied the values of peace that the city of Assisi, but also the whole regional community, obviously share in an absolutely widespread way. Well (I repeat that I do not say this because of controversy): today the new statute of Umbria, in the elaboration phase, will contain that quote. I believe that this is absolutely necessary and indispensable, because symbols, rhetorical figures, images, stories and traditions must be quoted, handed down, known and represented to the younger generations, to those who come after. If the figure of Francis and the values he represented, which have exploded in their importance over the centuries, today rise to this importance, it is precisely because we must be able to transfer them into the shared, absolutely outside the dynamics of partisan political discussions. I hope that all of this will succeed in doing so in this committee, to which an organizational programme, a system of events and the need to take decisions and measures using resources which, as far as I am concerned, seem appropriate and which will be useful for taking action on these sides. You know, colleagues, to give you a figure, where the word "Italy" appears for the first time in Italian art? In the upper basilica of Assisi, in the frescoes of Cimabue. Giotto, Simone Martini and Cimabue pass these values in a visual and plastic way; in the same way, I believe that, with different instruments and with different logics, this committee should do so, to which we will obviously pay great attention, in controlling what happens and in directing its activity. The Government's recommendation to provide a great deal of attention to its formation, avoiding that it can represent a simple means of sharing tasks, however unpaid, even if important, and making it an opportunity instead to contribute, in a widely shared way, to the formulation of a program of events that can give meaning to the recurrence. Good job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u95	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues, the Government and the rapporteurs. In particular, I want to say thanks to the Government and - allow me - especially to Minister Franceschini, who strongly wanted this measure, announced precisely on the days of the anniversary of the saint, last October, and born from a meeting and listening. The meeting took place on 17 May 2021, between the mayor of Assisi Stefania Proietti, whom I thank and greet, and Minister Franceschini. From that meeting a letter and from that letter a work that today comes here, in this House, an important work. What makes this bill particularly significant is the desire to go far beyond the celebration of Francis of Assisi, eight hundred years after his death, to build, around his figure, life, work and places, a true cultural program that remains in time and lasts five years, as it is written in the law, from 2022 to 2027. These are the years, on the anniversary of the centenary, that mark the main phases of the life of St. Francis. A cultural programme that remains in the following period, allowing the growth of the many areas involved, creating new synergies that hold together schools, universities, institutes of artistic and musical formation and involving European and international study centres. Francesco is in fact a founding figure of culture not only Italian, but European. The figure of Francis belongs to the whole world and his message is universal and lies in the evocative power of his life and example, in the revolutionary witness of the radicality of the Gospel and of the Christian life lived. All this has been consolidated over time in a name - Francis - that has taken on the meaning of a choice of life and a pronunciation of intent. This was demonstrated by Jorge Bergoglio when, just climbed to the papal throne in March 2013, showing himself from the balcony of St. Peter, he said he had chosen the name of Francis for his pontificate: in that choice he expressed a program of intents and a constellation of reference values, stirring a great emotion all over the world and not only in Catholic communities, because there is a very widespread feeling that binds millions of people everywhere in the world to the saint of Assisi. His strength lies in his actuality, which is the currentity of the Gospel: to build communities, to stand on the side of the last, the marginalized and the excluded to learn from the "little" and the "poor." There is in this a revolutionary ethic, all the more so today, in societies dominated by an asphyxiating consumerism, which is exasperated by the technological and digital revolution. Yet this is a necessary ethics, which calls into question a new model of development, sustainable and respectful of the planet, of creation, and of the future of the new generations; an even more necessary ethics today within the storm of the pandemic. "We cannot claim to be healthy in a sick world": it is a phrase of Pope Francis that encloses the meaning of the times we live and the commitment to which we are called. In Francesco, lived eight hundred years ago, there is a vision of the future that is extraordinarily innovative. For us Italians, for us born in the villages close to the Apennines that unite Umbria, Marche, Tuscany, Lazio and Abruzzo, where there is still the legacy of the peasant communions and solidarity among people who are one with the care of the environment and the landscape, the figure of Francis is familiar: it seems to see it and find it again in the countless representations of the nativity scene. The figure of Francis is still in the words of the "Cantico delle creature" (Cantic of creatures), which he wrote in vulgar, which are found in our vocabulary. In the vulgar vocabulary of the "Cantico delle creature" there is the origin of the Italian mother tongue and also the beginning of our identity. Walking along some places it can happen to find them intact as eight centuries ago, along the path of the Franciscan paths that this bill recalls to build a map to explore and a heritage to make known even more. These paths start from Assisi and then return to Assisi again, as Francis did. There is an indissoluble bond between Francis and Assisi: everything in Assisi speaks of Francis, with a symbolic and totalizing bond. This is due to the citizens of Assisi: a people who has always loved Francis, from the beginning, without ever disowning him, even in his first gestures of revolutionary breakup. As a sacred place, Assisi is itself the universal capital of Christianity, Christendom and the universal values of friendship, brotherhood, sharing, multiculturalism, inclusion and peace, which are one with the lay values of freedom, fraternity and equality that, with the language of modern people, we call democracy and republic. Assisi is an extraterritorial place, because it belongs to the world. John Paul II coined the expression "spirit of Assisi" to indicate a model of dialogue between peoples and religions, which was the basis of the ecumenical meeting of 1986, the first among the representatives of all Christian religions and of all world religions, to pray for peace in a time of cold war and innumerable conflicts, a time that we thought had been overcome forever and that now returns, even more dramatic than then. That was a historic day, followed by many more. But eight hundred years ago, in the midst of a historical period just as dramatic as today's one, marked by war in the name of God, the Crusades, Francis wanted to show that there are no boundaries, neither material nor cultural. He went to Egypt and wanted to meet the sultan. Pope Francis wrote, in the encyclical "Brothers all" dedicated to the saint of Assisi: The story is showing signs of a backwards return. Anachronistic conflicts that were believed to have been overcome, closed, exasperated, resentful and aggressive nationalisms arise (...). And this reminds us that every generation must make its own the struggles and conquests of previous generations, because justice and solidarity are not achieved once and for all; they must be conquered every day. And Assisi, since the 1960s, in the name of Francis, is a symbol of all this, of this conquest, day after day; it is the secular capital of peace, the place where the marches of peace movements gather. Today that war again bloods Europe, in the days when the Ukrainian population is invaded and attacked without any justification, in this time more than ever, it has meant making the thought of Francis live. Today more than ever Francis interrogates those who like us are called to gigantic responsibilities, to make choices; "Francesco rejects war, every war, especially holy war," as Carlo Maria Martini wrote in a beautiful text. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a pagan and anachronistic celebration, nor will it be the meaning of this law; it is up to us to make his teaching live. It is not enough to speak the word "peace" but it is necessary to do everything necessary to build peace. In this spirit, we are voting in favour of this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u98	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this bill. This explanation of vote is also an important opportunity to leave some reflections to the proceedings. I would like to refer here to Article 1 of this draft law: The Republic, within the scope of the aims of promoting the development of culture and scientific research, as well as the valorization and protection of the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation, attributed to it by the Constitution, celebrates the figure of St. Francis of Assisi on the anniversary of the eighth centenary of death, which falls in the year 2026. However, Francesco d'Assisi has been much more: precisely in the context of the valorization of his message and the protection of the historical and artistic heritage, I would like to remind you that this is also the year in which the constitutional reform that has included the protection of the environment, biodiversity, ecosystems and animals in the Constitution entered into force. In my opinion, it is one of the cornerstones of this beginning of celebrations. St. Francis of Assisi - I would like to remind you - is not only the patron saint of Italy, but is in some way the patron saint of the nature of this country and of animals. This is what he wanted us to say in the most incredible example, not only from the literary point of view, but also from the Gospel message, which is the "Cantico delle creature" (Cantic of creatures). It is no coincidence that Pope Francis, who was the first Pope to take on the name of Francis, began his encyclical "Laudato" taking up that example with force, because for a long time, even in the history of the Church, that message was not well understood and was not fully recovered. In that papal encyclical he wanted to recover with force, make his own and expand the message of Francis of Assisi and his evangelical mission. The incipit of the encyclical reads: "Laudato si', mi' Signore," sang St. Francis of Assisi. In this beautiful song he reminded us that our common home is also like a sister, with whom we share the existence, and like a beautiful mother who welcomes us in her arms: "Laudato yes, my Lord, for sora our matre Terra, which sustenta et governa, et produce several fructi with colorful flowers and herba." This sister protests for the evil that we cause her. Animals, living beings and nature are protesting for what we have produced over the years. As part of this bill on celebrations for the eighth centenary of St. Francis' death, we must not forget the main message and therefore we must celebrate not only the journey, the history, the identity and the wonder of those places (so the cultural and religious aspect), but also one of the main messages of St. Francis, who marked the attempt to shift the anthropocentric vision of that time, which in some way continued to distinguish also later the doctrine of the Church. It was an incredible operation, for a long time still forgotten, but today we have the opportunity, in these five years of celebration, to revive this fundamental message that Pope Francis, with the encyclical "Laudato si', wanted to resume with force, even with the assumption of the name of Francis, when he was elected Pope. In these days, after the Perugia-Assisi march, I have read about a kind of interpretative reconstruction of the figure of Francis as a soldier. Francis of Assisi was the fighter for nature, but during the fifth crusade he went to Palestine to meet the Sultan of Egypt, Saladin's nephew, not only to be a witness of peace, but to put his body at stake in order to build a path of peace, inaugurating the dialogue between the main monotheistic religions. It is no coincidence that for all those who believe in these values Assisi is historically the centre of this spirit. I therefore hope that the national committee dedicated to these celebrations will take great care to ensure that this message is a constant element. In this particular moment of our history, with the war in the heart of Europe, I believe that what we are voting on today is very important, in the sense of recovering this great message of St Francis of Assisi, which is a message of peace with men, against wars and peace with nature, because this is what he wanted to say to us all these centuries and this is the meaning of his message and his example. With these small reflections, I announce the favorable vote of the senators of the LEU-Ecosolidali component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u101	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to adopt an act which, in my opinion, is important and will bring positive results. We had asked for a special law - let's call it this - for Assisi during the election campaign of the city, and that request was accepted by the Government, which presented legislation not through a decree-law, but through its legislative initiative. Forza Italia has followed and will vote in favour of the establishment of the committee and above all its aims. Let me particularly thank the rapporteur, our friend Andrea Cangini, who followed the measure in the Commission, and my colleague Mr Saccone, who followed him in the Budget Committee. I have listened to my colleagues and I believe that we all agree that St. Francis and Assisi are part of us. Assisi, in a particular way, is St. Francis; Umbria is St. Francis, but also Italy. St. Francis is in fact the patron saint of Italy and carries those messages you have mentioned, with reference to the environment, but also to the dialogue between religions, since he prepared from this point of view the attempts of interreligious relations both during the fifth crusade, and during the siege of Damietta. St. Francis, as well as the patron saint of Italy, as well as being Assisi and representing all the values that I have already heard in part mention in this Chamber, is Umbria: we must not forget that St. Francis had great importance in Assisi first of all, but also throughout our region. I want to remember the episode of the wolf of Gubbio, the fact that he participated in a historical war between Perugia and Assisi, in which the Assisi lost to Collestrada (it was definitely part of a piece of history of that moment). I think of the city of Foligno and the Duchy of Spoleto, where his father was a merchant. I also think of the places where he has certainly done some extraordinary works: the first nativity scene, for example, was made in Greccio, on a road that leads to Stroncone. I also remember that he prayed in many parts of Umbria: the Isola Maggiore, the hermitage on Mount Subasio. It was present in the localities of Cannara, Bevagna, Bastia Umbra; in short, throughout Umbria. The draft law before us therefore represents a series of important values for us and is the result of a common will of the political forces, because it is right that it should be so in such a situation. Above all, in my opinion, St. Francis is certainly the subject to which we can be inspired now, both from a secular and above all religious point of view. It is very true that what characterized his figure was precisely the will to promote dialogue between different religions and is one of its characteristics from the point of view of historical experience. It is true that the Franciscan message has many facets and it is true that - as it is also written in the bill - it concerns the environment, dialogue between religions, peaceful coexistence, but Francis, in addition to the message that he wanted to send with the beautiful "Cantico delle creatures" is also the person who welcomed and embraced the leper. Perhaps this is one of the most important lessons that we can take from its history and from the teaching that it wanted to leave us. Then, of course, St. Francis means art, tourism and a very important artistic heritage. A colleague mentioned Cimabue, Giotto, the Porziuncola and artistic heritage of which the bill rightly provided for restoration. We are also in favour of this and the fact that there is the elaboration of a cultural program related to life, work and places related to the figure of St. Francis: a complete vision, at 360 degrees, as must be the celebration of the patron saint of Italy. So, with satisfaction, I also thank the Group that gave me the opportunity to make the explanation of vote, which can only be strongly in favour of the committee for St. Francis and therefore for Assisi, Umbria all and our Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u104	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Nencini and Senator Cangini, and the Government, in the person of our Undersecretary, Lucia Borgonzoni, for involving me as an active part of this process, as a Umbrian Member of Parliament. I thank President Donatella Tesei: together with her we have carefully followed the whole process of this bill that has carried on until today and goes to confirm that, since we were elected, we are spending on the valorization of our territory. This bill is also very important in this key. We are going to vote today on a measure that comes after a path shared with all the actors involved, made of comparisons, meetings and proposals. We managed to achieve a synthesis very quickly, thanks to the active collaboration of every political, religious, spiritual and institutional component. Allow me to express my great satisfaction at the acceptance in the Commission of the amendments tabled, which in the celebratory activities strengthen the presence of the territory that has seen the birth and growth of St. Francis. Umbria is a land that has given birth to many saints and which is deeply linked to its cultural and Christian roots, in particular to the figure of St. Francis. [[Applause]] It is true that St. Francis is the patron saint of Italy and not only represents Assisi or Umbria, but as Umbria we are proud that he was born and lived in our Region. We are proud to find his traces in the many places that Francis touched on his journey and that he listed our colleague, but we are aware that his spiritual heritage and his message do not belong to us. The Franciscan message is in fact a true patrimony of humanity, so timely that it is included in the draft law under consideration. A provision that in Article 1 states that the Republic celebrates the figure of Saint Francis of Assisi on the occasion of the eighth centenary of death can only meet our approval, because celebrating Francis means recognizing the value of our roots, of our historical and cultural heritage; it means leaving it as a legacy to future generations and sharing it with the rest of the world. Let us not forget, in fact, that the figure of St. Francis is also known and loved abroad. The bill provides for the establishment of the national committee, with the task of developing a cultural program related to life, work and places related to the figure of the saint, including restoration activities of things subject to the protection of cultural and landscape heritage, as well as research activities, editorials, training, exhibitions and the organization and management of events in the cultural, historical, literary, scientific and artistic fields of high value. All this in a modern and modern perspective is the figure of Francis. A perspective of internationalization, tourism promotion and technological innovation, but above all, as mentioned, focusing attention on the aspects of the Franciscan message concerning respect and care for the environment, dialogue between religions and peaceful coexistence between peoples. A current message, today more than ever in this historical moment; a figure to which to vote with authentic faith, in the hope that its protection can wrap all peoples, today tormented by events we would never have expected to witness and live. [[Applause]] Among the aims, the main one will be to disseminate in Italy and abroad the knowledge of the thought and work of man and of the saint, who has been able to leave an indelible trace in his journey. This will also be possible through the involvement of the fields of school education, high artistic, musical and coreautic training, university and research; but the committee will also have the task of developing programmes aimed at promoting cultural activities related to the celebration involving public or private bodies of proven experience. Another important function will be to prepare programs aimed at promoting processes of cultural development in the territory, of valorization and tourist promotion of the Franciscan places and paths and of commercial promotion in the cultural context related to the celebration. Last but not least, there will be important editorial publications of undoubted historical and cultural value. In the light of the above, I declare the vote in favour of the Senators of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo D'Azione Group to the attention of the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u107	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Government and the whole of the Committee on Education, Cultural Heritage for examining this bill now for the approval of this House. Celebrating the figure of St. Francis of Assisi on the occasion of the eighth centenary of his death, which will fall in 2026, has a value that goes far beyond the simple historical commemoration. The figure of Francis invests in spirituality and faith, overcoming religious sentiment. I say this as a citizen of Umbria, the land that perhaps more than any other feels the deep bond with the figure of Francis; but I say it as an Italian citizen and of the world, given the extraordinary reflection that the light of his thought has transmitted and continues to transmit for almost eight hundred years to the whole of humanity. Today more than ever we have the concrete need, the living need to confront ourselves with what has been one of the greatest intellectuals in human history. The pandemic, first, and the war, then, represent global phenomena, which never, like today, question us about the future of our community. What can we do in the face of the suffering that is so heavy upon our brothers? And again: how can we rethink our relationship with the planet and with those who share it with us? The thought of Francis and his own personal history force us to deal with all this, with our failures and with the work to build a better future. His thought also teaches us the importance of human cooperation and global solidarity, reminding us of the intimate and profound relationship between man and nature. This is one of the most authentic and, at the same time, more revolutionary aspects of Francis' thinking: the planet precedes us and has been given to us, we are not masters of the Earth, but mere administrators. [[Applause]] The distortions of an economic model that places money at the center of everything and the degenerations of human action, like war, arise precisely from the false assumption that we own the Earth and therefore we can exploit it for our interests and our growth. Well, Francis tells us the exact opposite and reminds us of our responsibilities towards others and the world. Today nature suffers and warns us that we are approaching dangerous thresholds. The war goes ahead and is not far from the point of no return. We still have the opportunity to settle the mistakes of the past and move towards a new horizon of peace and towards a more inclusive, sustainable and inclusive model of progress. But we have to make it quick. These are the values that inspire every day the action of the political force I represent, the Movimento 5 Stars. It is no coincidence that our date of birth is precisely 4 October, the day of the patron saint of Italy and the celebrations of St. Francis of Assisi. [[Applause]] To Francis, with humility, we inspire ourselves when we say that no one must remain behind, when we affirm that it is necessary to work together and dream big to create a new world in which war, unemployment, poverty, inequality, hunger and exclusion from the necessary health care are no longer a destiny to deal with, but a memory of the past. All this and much more teaches us St. Francis of Assisi. For this reason, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, I announce the vote in favour of the provision and full support for the process of celebration for the eighth centenary of his death, which will involve Assisi, Umbria and Italy as a whole, as it is right that it is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u108	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u110	[[Brusio]] BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I wait a second before I begin my speech, so that there is silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to proceed, Senator Binetti, the speeches at the end of the session do not require the attention of colleagues. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask you to answer a number of questions, which concern the university. Concretely we voted, a few days ago, a bill that allows students, in a completely innovative way, to be able to enroll in two degree courses at the same time, imagining in this a series of opportunities that open to the students themselves. It is a pity, however, that at least two other reforms have not met this reform, which would have been desirable. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The first concerns teacher selection models: some scandals concerning competitions and competition dynamics are reported in the press these days. The other reform concerns the specific nature of the student's training processes, because some competitions are being carried out, with ambiguous ways of formulating the criteria of enrolment, so, for example, with regard to the medical faculty and in particular the MED/48 sector, the ambiguity of the formulation would make it possible to participate in competitions that are specifically dedicated to professionals from the health professions, even to persons who have other professional profiles. I am very sorry, Mr President, that you did not want to accept my desire for more attention and concentration, because you know better than I that the speech on university, research, development and training is almost the fourth axis of the PNRR, that is, the context of development of the future of the country that necessarily passes for a research and training activity consistent with these values. I would therefore ask that there be an adequate and prompt response from the Minister to questions which are now piling up with excessive concentration and could mean an excess of disinterest on concrete points, which concern our academic life.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u113	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, in the Mom project, I see war, which I consider extremely significant and moving, Ukrainian children draw the horrors of war. The many images of death and blood that sadly fill the designs of Ukrainian children faithfully photograph the tragedies, the pains, the atrocities and the squalor of war that upset their native land and their lives. The horrors of war, seen through the sad, almost unbelieving eyes, of children, innocent witnesses of an immense and absurd tragedy, coincide perfectly with the atrocities of television images. These are drawings made in underground shelters, while bombs fell, or in temporary dwellings, found in countries like ours, which welcomed them and hosted them with open arms and heart in hand. They are exhausted, tired children who escape under bombs from their country and their cities destroyed and devoured by bombings and flames. They are drawings of death and blood flowing through the streets, of rifles and guns always ready to shoot, all made by children, often separated from their parents, to save them from death. Red is the dominant color in these drawings, all run by a vein of deep sadness, but also by a light of hope. These drawings collected from the project "Mom," "I see war" (Mom, I see war) give, in a cruel but real way, the image of sadness and suffering seen through the innocent, simple and blameless eyes of children. These flashes have a profound meaning: breaking silences and sharing anger and pain. Courageous and strong children in the soul, capable of better communicating through their drawings their state of mind, their sincere and authentic emotions. Mr President, the above-mentioned project calls on all the children of the world to share these drawings and the pain they represent, to break the silence and to think that the children of the international community support them in these difficult and dark moments; to raise the necessary funds to help those in extreme difficulty. This is the great hope of this project: to rebuild a puzzle suffered, sad, but real, through the eyes and sensitivity of children. "Peace not war" (Peace and not war), "God, save Ukraine" (God, save Ukraine) are just some of the most significant phrases repeated in drawings and images. The hope of the children and of all the Ukrainian people is that the whole world can see what a people is experiencing that lucid madness and exaltation want to annihilate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u114	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-428.ana.u115	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.00 p.m.
