ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 25 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u4	I communicate that on 25 February 2022 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Justice, Economy and Finance, the ecological and labour transition and social policies: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 13 of 25 February 2022 on urgent measures to combat fraud and safety in the workplace and in the building sector, as well as on electricity produced from renewable sources" (2545).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u5	The next item is: "Communication from the President of the Council of Ministers on the development of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine" I would remind you that for the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, for the reply and for the explanations of vote, live television with Rai is planned. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia marks a decisive turning point in European history. In recent decades, many have been deluded that the war would no longer find room in Europe, that the horrors that characterized the twentieth century were unrepeatable monstrosity, that the economic and political integration that we had pursued through the creation of the European Union would protect us from violence, that the multilateral institutions created after the Second World War were destined to protect us forever; in other words, that we could take for granted the conquests of peace, security and well-being that the previous generations had achieved with enormous sacrifices. The images that come to us from Kiev, Kharkiv, Mariupol and the other cities of Ukraine in struggle for Europe's freedom mark the end of these illusions. The heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people and its president Zelensky put us in front of a new reality and force us to make choices until a few months ago unthinkable. I want to reiterate once again all my solidarity, that of the Government and the Italians to President Zelensky, to the Ukrainian Government and to all the citizens and citizens of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I also want to express closeness to the 236,000 people of Ukrainian nationality present in Italy, who live dramatic days for the destiny of their loved ones. [[Applause]] Italy is grateful to you for your daily contribution to the life of our country. We are at your side, in the pain we feel in the face of war, in our attachment to peace and in our common determination to help Ukraine defend itself. Russia's premeditated and unmotivated attack on a neighbouring country takes us back over eighty years. It is not just an attack on a free and sovereign country, but an attack on our values of freedom and democracy and on the international order that we have built together. As historian Robert Kagan had observed, today very quoted, the jungle of history has returned and his lianas want to wrap the garden of peace in which we were convinced to live. Now it is up to us all to decide how to react and Italy does not want to turn on the other side. [[Applause]] President Putin's plan today reveals itself with sharp outlines in his words and acts. In 2014, Russia annexed Crimea with an illegal referendum and began financially and militaryly supporting separatist forces in the Donbass. He recognised the two so-called republics of Donetsk and Lugansk last week. Soon after, after weeks of misinformation, he invaded Ukraine under the pretext of a special military operation. The threats of charging, with consequences never before experienced in history, who dares to be obstructed by the invasion of Ukraine and the extreme blackmail of the use of nuclear weapons require a rapid, firm and above all unitary reaction. [[Applause]] Tolerating a war of aggression against a sovereign European State would mean putting security and peace in Europe at risk, perhaps irreversiblely. We can't let that happen. As we condemn President Putin's position, we must remember that this is not a clash against the nation and its citizens, many of whom do not approve of the actions of their government. Since the beginning of the invasion there are about 6,000 people arrested for having protested against the invasion of Ukraine, 2,700 only on Sunday. I admire the courage of those who take part in these demonstrations. [[Applause]] The Kremlin should listen to these voices and abandon its war plans. So far, Moscow's plans for a rapid invasion and a conquest of large sections of Ukraine's territory in a few days seem to fail, also thanks to the courageous opposition of the Ukrainian army and people and the unity demonstrated by the European Union and its allies. The Russian troops continue, however, their advance to take possession of the main cities: a long column of military vehicles is at the gates of Kiev, where in the night missile raids were recorded even to the detriment of residential neighborhoods and explosions. The civilian victims of this conflict are increasing now that the attack, after targeting military installations, has moved to urban centres. Faced with the strengthening of defensive measures on NATO's eastern flank, President Putin alerted Russian deterrent forces, including the nuclear defensive device. It is a serious gesture, but it shows how effective the resistance of the Ukrainians and the sanctions imposed on Russia are. Another worrying signal comes from neighbouring Belarus, whose citizens voted on Sunday in favour of some important changes to the Constitution and eliminated the status of a denuclearised country. This could imply a willingness to deploy nuclear weapons from other countries on its own soil. In Ukraine there are about 2,300 of our countrymen, of whom more than 1,600 are residents. Since February 12, Farnesina has recommended to Italians present in the country to leave Ukraine with the commercial means available. As of February 24, following the attacks on the Russian side, the warning has been changed: to the compatriots still present in the Ukrainian capital and surrounding area we have recommended to use the means still available, including trains, to leave the city at times when there is no curfew. In these hours there is no curfew, but the situation could change as a result of the progress of military operations: we recommend the utmost caution. The embassy's staff in Kiev moved to the ambassador's residence, along with a group of compatriots, including minors and newborns. In residence 87 people were concentrated, 72 of whom should leave today. In this regard, this morning Minister Di Maio sent the ambassador a message that these people - about 80, as I said - including newborns, should move to Lviv. I want to thank the Ambassador to Ukraine Pier Francesco Zazo [[Applause]] and the embassy staff for the spirit of service, dedication and courage shown in these dramatic days. The crisis unit maintains regular telephone contact with our countrymen in Ukraine and their families in Italy. I would also like to thank Minister Di Maio and the technicians of Farnesina for their unceasing work in support of our citizens. [[Applause.]] Italy is committed to supporting Ukraine from a humanitarian and migratory point of view, in close coordination with European and international partners. The humanitarian situation in the country is becoming increasingly serious. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs has estimated 18 million people who may need humanitarian aid in the coming months. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that internally displaced persons could reach between 6 and 7.5 million and refugees in total between 3 and 4 million. Some 400,000 people are estimated to have left Ukraine in the main direction of the neighbouring countries. On the occasion of the G7 teleconference, with the presence of Poland and Romania, I said that Italy will do everything to help the neighbouring countries in the drama of the impact that this gigantic migration is having on them and that both Poland and Romania will be able to count on Italy. [[Applause]] Italy has already made a significant contribution to the emergency by financing EUR 110 million in favour of Kiev in support of the general budget of the State. We have allocated a first contribution worth EUR 1 million to the International Committee of the Red Cross, donated more than 4 tons of sanitary equipment, family tents, racks. We are planning to send goods for assistance to the population, medicines and medical devices and we are also planning to deploy field health facilities. I want to thank the Red Cross, Civil Protection and all the volunteers for their constant commitment to the weakest. Italy is ready to do more, through the main humanitarian organizations active on the site and also with material donations. In yesterday's Council of Ministers, we have allocated EUR 10 million from the National Emergency Fund to provide assistance and assistance to the population. To do this, a state of humanitarian emergency has been declared which will last until 31 December and whose sole purpose is to ensure Italy's maximum aid to Ukraine. It is a commitment of solidarity that will not have consequences for us Italians and that does not change the decision to put an end on 31 March to the state of emergency for the Covid-19. [[Applause]] As far as refugees are concerned, as ministers Di Maio and Bonetti have announced, we are engaged in the activation of special corridors for orphan children, so that they can reach our country as soon as possible and safely. [[Applause]] On Sunday, the extraordinary Council of Ministers for the Interior of the European Union examined the possibility - which Italy claims - of applying for the first time the temporary protection directive in the event of a massive influx of displaced persons. This directive would ensure that Ukrainians fleeing for a renewable year stay in the European Union and avoid having to engage in burdensome asylum procedures after 90 days without a visa. The Directive would also lead Member States to indicate their reception capacity and to cooperate with each other in transferring the residence of persons from one Member State to another. The Ministry of the Interior is working on the preparation of specific rules on the reception of Ukrainian displaced persons in national structures. We will do our part without reservations to ensure maximum solidarity. We have already established a dialogue with the relevant UN agencies to identify priorities for intervention and to proceed with the development of refugee assistance projects in countries close to Ukraine. We intend to make it easier to examine applications for international protection which will be submitted. Following the intensification of the Russian offensive, we have adopted an increasingly harsh and punitive response to Moscow. At the military level, the supreme command of the Allied powers in Europe has issued the order of activation for all five of the gradual response plans that I outlined last week. This allows to implement directly the first part of the plans and increase the posture of deterrent on the eastern border of the Alliance with the forces already available. I am referring to the passage of the unit currently deployed in Latvia, to which Italy contributes 239 units. As far as the naval forces are concerned, they are already sailing under the NATO command. Our air forces deployed in Romania will be doubled in order to ensure continuous coverage with the allies. Further forces already offered by the individual member countries of the Alliance are being pre-warned. Italy is ready with a first group of 1,400 military and a second of 2,000 units. I thank Minister Guerini and all the armed forces for their commitment and preparation. [[Applause]] After the central role you played during the pandemic, Italy is grateful to you again. Italy responded to President Zelensky's appeal for military equipment, armaments and vehicles to protect itself from Russian aggression. The democratically elected government must be able to resist the invasion and defend the independence of the country. To a people who defend themselves against a military attack and ask for help from our democracies, it is not possible to respond only with encouragement and acts of deterrence. [[Applause]] This is the Italian position, the European Union and all our allies. This convergence is also the result of an intense diplomatic activity. On Friday I took part in a summit of the Heads of State and Government of NATO, in which I reiterated that Italy is ready to play its part and make available the necessary forces. The next day I had a telephone interview with Ukrainian President Zelensky, to whom I confirmed the full support of Italy. I anticipated our intention to help Ukraine defend itself from Russia and reiterated our strong support for the European Union's position on sanctions. On Monday afternoon, I attended a video conference, which I told you earlier, with the leaders of the G7, Poland, Romania, the Presidents of the European Commission and the European Council and the Secretary-General of NATO. At these meetings, the European Union and its allies have consistently demonstrated firmness and unity. We have quickly adopted unprecedented sanctions, which affect many sectors and a large number of entities and individuals, including President Putin and Minister Lavrov. Financially, the restrictive measures taken will prevent the Russian Central Bank from using its international reserves to reduce the impact of our restrictive measures. Within the European Union, measures are being taken to remove some Russian banks from the Swift system. This package has already inflicted very high costs in Moscow. On Monday alone, the ruble lost about 30 percent of its value compared to the dollar. The Moscow Stock Exchange closed yesterday, and it was closed, and the Russian Central Bank has more than doubled interest rates, from 9.5 to 20%, to try to limit the risk of capital flight. We are also approving strong restrictive measures against Belarus, given its growing involvement in the conflict. Russia has also suffered a very tough sport boycott with the annulment of all competitions with Russian teams in every discipline. Italy is ready for further restrictive measures if necessary. In particular, I have proposed that further targeted measures be taken against oligarchs. The hypothesis is to create an international public register of oligarchs that have a heritage of more than 10 million euros. I have also proposed that further pressure be stepped up on the Russian Central Bank and that the Bank for International Settlements, which is based in Switzerland, should participate in the sanctions. At the same time, it is essential to keep open the way to dialogue with Moscow. Yesterday, Russian and Ukrainian delegations met in Belarus, on the border with Ukraine; we hope that this negotiation will be successful, although we are realistic about its prospects. To the Italian citizens who are concerned about the consequences of this conflict, I want to say that the Government is working incessantly to counter the possible repercussions for the country. The Ministry of the Interior has issued directives on supervisory measures to protect sensitive objectives. For aspects related to refugee security control, the Government has activated all national and international coordination mechanisms to monitor potential threats. The deterioration of relations between Russia, the European Union and NATO has made Moscow's posture towards the West even more aggressive in terms of cybernetic and disinformation. Russia has accentuated its hostile activities towards the countries of the European Union and NATO with the aim of undermining our cohesion and ability to respond. We have activated a dedicated core for cyber security to share the information collected and, within it, a permanent table dedicated to the ongoing crisis has been established. I want to thank Interior Minister Lamorgese, Undersecretary Gabrielli and all the law enforcement for their work in defence of the citizens. [[Applause]] The Government is also working to mitigate the impact of any problems with regard to energy supplies. There are currently no signs of an interruption in gas supplies. However, it is important to assess any eventuality, given the risk of retaliation and possible further tightening of sanctions. Italy imports about 95 percent of the gas it consumes and over 40 percent comes from Russia. In the short term, even a complete interruption of gas flows from Russia, starting next week, should not in itself lead to serious problems. Italy still has two and a half billion cubic metres of gas in storage and the arrival of milder temperatures should lead to a significant reduction in household consumption. Our prediction is that we will be able to absorb any demand peaks through storage volumes and other import capacities. However, in the absence of supplies from Russia, the situation for the coming winters, but I also believe for the near future, is likely to be more complicated. The Government is studying a series of measures to reduce the Italian dependence on Russia. I would like to thank Mr Cingolani for the great work he is doing on this issue. [[Applause]] The options under consideration, which are perfectly compatible with our climate objectives, relate first of all to gas imports from other suppliers, such as Algeria or Azerbaijan; increased use of the available liquid natural gas terminals; possible temporary increases in thermal coal or oil production, which would not, however, involve the opening of new plants. If necessary, greater flexibility should be adopted on gas consumption, particularly in the industrial and thermal sectors. Diversification of energy sources is an objective to be pursued regardless of what will happen to Russian gas supplies in the immediate future; we cannot be so dependent on the decisions of a single country, not only on our freedom, but also on our prosperity. [[Applause]] That is why we must first of all focus on a decisive increase in the production of renewable energy, as we do in the context of the Next Generation EU programme. We must continue to simplify procedures: I said it the previous time, I repeat it today and I will continue to say it, because they are actually the biggest obstacle for onshore and offshore renewable projects; we continue to do so and we will continue to push on this point. We also need to invest in the development of biomethane, but gas remains a useful means of dealing with the transition. We need to think about an increase in our regasification capacity and a possible doubling of the capacity of the TAP pipeline. Europe has shown enormous determination to support the Ukrainian people, and in doing so it has made unprecedented decisions in its history, such as buying and supplying weapons to a country in war. As has happened before in European history, the Union has accelerated its integration process in the face of a crisis. Now it is essential that the lessons of this emergency should not be wasted; in particular, it is necessary to proceed on the path of common defence, in order to acquire a real strategic autonomy that is complementary to the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause]] The threat that Russia has brought today is an incentive to invest in defence more than we have ever done so far; we can choose whether to do so at national or European level. My hope is that all countries will choose to take a common approach more and more. An investment in European defence is also a commitment to being an ally. The extraordinary influx of refugees, which has already begun to arrive from Ukraine, obliges us then to review the immigration policies that we have given ourselves as the European Union. In the past, the Union has proved to be short-sighted in the application of old regulations. Today Italy is ready to do its part to accommodate those fleeing the war and to help them integrate into society. The European values of welcome and brotherhood must be more valid today than ever before. [[Applause]] In the event of an interruption of gas supplies from Russia, Italy would have more to lose than other European countries relying on different sources, but this does not diminish our determination to support sanctions that we consider justified and necessary. However, it is important to move in the direction of a common approach to gas storage and supply; doing so would allow us to obtain much lower prices from the producing countries and assure each other in case of isolated shocks. The war will have consequences on the price of energy that we will have to face with new measures to support businesses and families. The European Union should facilitate them in order to avoid excessive repercussions on recovery. In future, this crisis reminds us of the importance of having a truly strategic and long-term vision in the debate on the new budgetary rules in Europe. In December, together with French President Macron, we proposed to encourage investment in areas of greatest importance for Europe's future, such as security and environmental protection, by means of the new rules. The exact design of these rules must be discussed with all Member States. However, this crisis, as well as the ecological transition, as well as other commitments following the pandemic that we have been facing, reinforces the need to write rules that are compatible with the ambitions we have for Europe. Russia's invasion is not just about Ukraine; it is an attack on our conception of relations between states based on rules and rights. We cannot allow Europe to return to a system where borders are drawn by force and where war is an acceptable way to expand its area of influence. Respect for democratic sovereignty is a condition for lasting peace [[Applause]] and it is at the heart of the Italian people that, as Alcide De Gasperi said, he is ready to associate his work with that of other countries in order to build a more just and human world. The struggle that we support today, the sacrifices that we will make tomorrow, are a defence of our principles and our future, and that is why I ask Parliament for its support today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u7	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are living in extraordinary times in which we must put aside superficial propaganda and get to the root of the problems. We must remove our laziness, return to the compass of values and ideals that have pushed many of us to politics, even accepting, at a time like this, a path of suffering, because we are called to difficult choices. And since you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have rightly mentioned, at the end of your speech, the words of Mr De Gasperi, I would like to quote those of Mr Aldo Moro: if we were to make a mistake, it would be better to make a mistake together. If we were to succeed, it would be extremely nice to succeed together and always be together, because this is the sense of belonging to the national community. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a time when all the parliamentary groups are called upon to make choices of suffering; but we must remove the shallow laziness and finally say yes and no, we must overcome general and inconsistent feelings, and return, colleagues of the Senate of the Republic, to the harshness of politics. Politics is a set of difficult, sometimes unpleasant, sometimes unpopular decisions, and may require the necessary harshness. There are right things and wrong things, there are good acts and bad acts; we cannot hide everything in a generic relativism, as our time now induces us to do. We have to draw on history. This morning, speaking to Senator Craxi, I remembered a debate that tore Italians apart - you, President Draghi, will remember - and that brought terrible lacerations also in the Catholic world: Italy's choice to respond with allies to the installation of Soviet SS20s with the installation of Euro-missiles. A choice made by Cossiga and Craxi; a choice apparently of war, because we were installing Euromissiles in Italian cities. Well, installing the Euro missiles at that time allowed the longest season of peace and relaxation in the following years, because disarmament arose from the decision of the West not to expose the flags of peace before the SS20s, but to make a difficult and unpopular choice. [[Applause]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must all recognize one thing, who is more, who is less; who has intellectual honesty depends on himself, we do not each of us examine others, but some should do a gigantic examination of conscience about the collective blindness that we have taken. None of us seriously thought or wanted to think that Putin could militarily move millions of people on Kiev, involving all Ukrainian cities in the greatest assault seen since World War II; at most the Donbass, it was said, more or less enlarged. Yet things have been diametrically opposed to all the predictions of geopolitical essaysists, politicians, men of government, whatever they may be; all of us have been wrong. We've come to nuclear threats. Some people today still want to save their conscience by saying: perhaps we were wrong, because we were not sensitive to the issue of NATO's enlargement. Colleagues, we must have the courage to say to ourselves (not to others) that this is a fake argument, because Putin knew very well that NATO would never deploy in Ukraine (it is certainly not an unwise one). Perhaps, indeed, these are the alibis that the Russians are somehow using. But we decided not to see and we did not wonder the reasons for what happened: partnership for peace in 1994 in Pratica di Mare; Russia in the Council of Europe and in the G7; in 2002 the NATO-Russia Council; in 2009 Obama was triumphantly welcomed in the name of détente in Moscow. What happened next? There's been such a thing that if we can't figure it out, we don't understand what's going on. It happened in 2014 and concerns those "unsuspected" Ukrainians, as they say; we say something different and use the words of President Draghi, bowing to the courage of the Ukrainians. [[Applause]] But this Ukrainian people dared to decide and choose a non-Russian President, to choose the path of freedom and to go to Maidan Square. Since 2014, the Russian response has been immediate with the invasion of Crimea, with the illegal annexation, with what happened in the Donbass. We come so far, with Putin saying on television that his battle is to denazize Ukraine. Colleagues, do we continue to provide supporting evidence? Are we still trying to pretend, to save our conscience, not to see what's happening? Freedom has a cost. This tragically reminds us of the cost of freedom that we thought we had acquired and that it required no sacrifice. Consider, colleagues in the Senate, that when the spotlight on this matter is out, the season of sacrifices and distinctions will come, the ifs and the buts will multiply transversally in the political forces. We have to be serious! [[Applause]] The President-in-Office of the Council was serious today, because he made it clear that, by taking a position, we are taking responsibility for sacrifices! Sacrifices! We cannot help but think that we have been irresponsible as Italians. I am the first because I have been sitting in Parliament for a long time, so I do not want to teach others the lesson, I do it to myself. However, a country that has increased from 10% of energy dependence on Russia to 43%, but what autonomy can it have? I also say this in relation to the fact that we are engaged in that dialogue which we want to carry out, because in our DNA there is multilateralism, there is dialogue and peace. We cannot have any negotiating capacity because we are completely bent. That is why I appreciated - and I am telling you the truth, because when I had something to say, I made it clear - the government's line, because in this instance the Italian Executive has shown that it has its back straight and with the Government has shown it by Parliament. I am about to finish, Madam President, by also having to make an explanation of vote, I will then save the minutes afterwards. From evil, sometimes good is born, which is the value of European unity, we all realize it. Orban realizes that today, too. The good is also the value of NATO: Putin has resurrected NATO, because those who said she was dead today must face reality. [[Applause]] We must consider the value of our energy independence. We therefore need to be independent, and that is the only way we will be credible. I think that in these hours Parliament will have to make choices of suffering, and I say this also for the motion for a resolution that will be tabled. I know that in many parliamentary groups there is a legitimate suffering, which I respect, because politics must also be lived with suffering and if someone, with suffering, has difficulty in voting on this motion for a resolution I understand and I respect it, because I know that he believes in something. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is those who vote on it superficially without understanding the consequences, because a few minutes ago we were told that we will probably have to make energy sacrifices, we will probably also have to tell the families and businesses that there is a belt to tighten. We do this in the name of our freedom, because it is clear that this dramatic affair, which the Ukrainians play in the first person, aims not only to destroy their freedom, but to lay the premises for them today to be denied their freedom, perhaps with a puppet regime installed in Kiev, but tomorrow, day after day, the snare will gradually spread to each of us. Colleagues, it's not about being warmongering, it's about being intelligently pacifist. Peace is also defended through painful choices and acts of autonomy: this is in the tradition of a great country, which in the years of the Cold War has opted for Europe, for the Atlantic choice, for the UN and for peace. Everything else is rhetoric full of good intentions, which can have nothing to do with the responsibility of Parliament's legislators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u9	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, not in order to make Italian polemics (then I only mention them), but I have to smile bitterly because, at every crisis, every storm of frond or serious crisis, we hear: It takes more Europe, for anything. It is a phrase that replaced the previous sentence: Europe leaves us alone, Europe abandons us. In short, we proceed from slogans to slogans, changing them, moreover, with a surprising speed. I do not want to make internal polemics - because I am always happy when someone changes their opinion and reaches the little I could or could say or do with regard to Europe - but I remember well that you all took me for a visionary Martian no later than 2018. Now we want more Europe: welcome to the club, provided that you are serious and that you can move on. Mr President, someone wanted a Europe of health, others want a Europe of energy, of course we all traditionally want a Europe of foreign policy and a Europe of defence (and we can add: we want a Europe of immigration policy, etc., etc.). On condition, however, that it is at no cost and that we do not assume responsibilities. That is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. When the President said that Italy will also have costs and will have to pay them, he made an act of truth that helps and will also help the public to prepare and understand. History teaches us that we have a short memory. Does anyone remember Afghanistan, the arrival of the Taliban, the disordered exit - let's say - of American friends and us with them? Does anyone still know who the Kurds are, who fought with us and who we abandoned in Erdogan? I don't push myself to the Yazidi, because I don't want to make history, but we, together with a number of allies, are very good at getting off the horse, turning our backs and returning comfortably to our home. Yes, there will be costs to be paid, not only for energy, but also for wheat, just to mention a common raw material and not among the rare ones. I think and hope that you Ministers and we senators will repeat this at every debate on Ukraine: Dear Italians, prepare yourself because there will be costs to pay. This is to avoid that in three months - knowing us a little - the distinction begins: yes, but not so; yes, but not there; yes, but it is too much; yes, but it is too little. I mean, we'd like a country that supports it without a lot of distinction. We will also make mistakes, but this belongs to human nature and I believe that we must prepare and prepare our public opinion: the Ukrainians will come, you do not make illusions; the Afghans will come, you do not make illusions; not to mention Africa, where there is one coup d'état behind the other and where even the French have come from. We therefore - I hope with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - have a responsibility to prepare our public opinion so that it remains cohesive alongside the initiatives you are taking. It won't be easy - I tell you now - but you know it yourself. But we must be ready, also to be credible with respect to our allies and to Europe. We therefore want more Europe. Long live Europe! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u11	Colleagues, I remind everyone to wear masks during surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, I confess with sincere embarrassment that I have felt a certain fascination for the figure of Vladimir Putin in very distant times. His decision-making, his capacity for international influence, the fact that I have not lost the sense of tragedy, of having a vision, even saving, for the future of his nation have led me, in very distant times, to a certain indulgence with respect to the positions that Russia assumed on the international chessboard. Nothing rational, of course, being culturally and politically anchored to the values of freedom and democracy of the West. I think it was a feeling, an irrational thing, a movement of the spirit due to the instinctive need to compensate for the sense of frustration that I witnessed and witnessed in the face of the impotence of Western politics. I think that is what we should discuss today, ladies and gentlemen. We should discuss the reasons why we Westerners are no longer able to think strategically and act politically. Depending on China to protect us from a widely announced pandemic; depending on Russia, our opponent, for energy supplies, means having no strategic capacity [[Applause]] , have no idea of himself and no vision of the future. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: if NATO, Europe, the current American Presidency and the West in general had any military credibility, Vladimir Putin would never have declared war on a sovereign state that was obviously pro-Western. He did it because he sees us weak, divided and devoid of leadership. He sees us fundamentally unfit to wage war, because we are terrified of public opinion disbelieved in reality and inflated for decades by hollow rhetoric and good commendable but inconclusive sentiments. [[Applause]] That's how Putin sees us and, unfortunately, that's how we are. War, ladies and gentlemen, is not madness, as is the case today. It is - as von Clausewitz said - the continuation of politics by other means. A foreign policy without a military deterrent is physiologically weak and a physiologically weak foreign policy means an impotent policy. Colleagues, I regret to say this, but a clear and tangible sign of the impotence of politics is the fact that most of the Italian and Western political leaders in these hours cite a single global leader, Pope Francis, and pronounce a single word, peace. It is clear that we all want peace and that Pope Francis does well - not well - his job, but ours is a different profession. If we Westerners no longer have the ability to master the categories of which politics has always been composed, we are physiologically powerless and structurally incapable of defending and honoring those liberal and democratic principles and values to which Vladimir Putin declared war by attacking Ukraine. It is not a life sentence ours: you can change, you can improve. How? We change by doing exactly what we have said today: for example, by starting to re-educate public opinion to realism and not utopia; by giving substance and military strength to Europe; by speeding up the process of reform of NATO; by making our state autonomous for energy supplies, and so on. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of giving back dignity to politics and strength to the West. If we do - and we have to - we will no longer run the risk that someone among us will feel Putin's charm, but above all we will no longer run the risk that people like Putin will dislike their own imperial design, strong in our weakness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u14	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Russia's military operation today leads us more than ever to question ourselves as a people, as a nation and as a European Union about the importance of the value of peace. Speaking of peace today as the primary and decisive objective of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict is fortunately a wish shared by all of us. The question is, if anything, how to reach it. It is clear that, today more than ever, there is a sense of the importance of a common European foreign and defence policy, which actually leads the Union to gain greater international weight and full strategic autonomy in all fora. Unfortunately, the sinking of the Minsk Accords and the worsening of the current situation lead us to hope for a more central and incisive role of the European Union than today, above all, as a promoter of the values of peace even beyond its borders. The reasons behind this conflict are multiple, and the symptoms could be analysed for a long time, but beyond every single reason, what is certain is the unacceptable military aggression to a democracy at the gates of Europe, thus opening up a wound and a new drama within a continent that, in the past decades, has already suffered for a long time because of wars. The main points to consider are: to avoid the immediate extension of this conflict; to reach the conclusion of military actions as soon as possible by using diplomacy as the only possible means of resolving disputes. [[Applause.]] If this is a shared goal, it is equally important to conceive ways of achieving this result. It is clear that a cross-cutting sanctioning action, where not well thought out, can also have serious consequences of an economic, industrial, energy and therefore social nature in European countries, and especially in our country. The sanctions mechanism must therefore be considered as a strategic deterrent which, in order to be such, must minimise the consequences on the economies of the Member States of the European Union [[Applause]] and, at the same time, to ensure the effectiveness of its scope. Some consequences will certainly be inevitable, even in the light of the effects that we are still experiencing in connection with the pandemic crisis. However, we trust in the wise decision of the Italian Government to ensure that Italy's position in the possible adoption of sanctions against Russia is taken into account in the appropriate forums. At this very difficult stage it is called upon to take decisions that require a collective and supranational conscience for the security of all its citizens and for the objective of peace. With the hope that the conflict will cease as soon as possible, an important test for the European Union will be the joint management of the reception of Ukrainian refugees. I am sure that Italy will be at the forefront of reaffirming the values of European solidarity, guaranteeing shared humanitarian corridors. I shall conclude, Mr President, by expressing our full solidarity with the Ukrainian people and reaffirming the great sense of responsibility which must animate this, like any other Parliament, both to resolve the current situation and - above all - to avoid a dangerous military escalation, with devastating and unpredictable effects on both sides. We express our full trust in the Italian Government and in diplomacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u16	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u17	Mr President, President Draghi, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, images of these days coming from Ukraine are barely tolerated. Not even two and a half hours from Italy - the time it takes to fly to London - an entire people is attacked with destructive and unmotivated violence and a meaningless war violates an independent state and the entire democracy. The eyes of the people fleeing the bombings tell well, without the need of words, the despair of those who are forced to abandon their loved ones and their lives, without having any guilt. It is a war that has already caused so many deaths and refugees. That is why, six days after the outbreak of the conflict, we firmly condemn the Russian occupation and renew our deep solidarity with President Zelensky, the institutions and all the Ukrainian people. As the European Union, together with the Atlantic forces, we have been coordinating in a compact way for weeks to be at the side of Ukraine, first in an effort to avoid the conflict and not to offer an alibi to Putin, who is the author of a completely distorted war narrative; and then adopting packages of sanctions that are progressively harder and harder, with the aim of striking the Russian regime. They are all measures that aim to bring Putin's power system to its knees, trying to avoid - at the same time - turning into a boomerang for our economy. That is why, in sharing the sanctions proposed at European level and in hoping that they will also be extended to Belarus, it is useful to call for the European Union to set up a compensation fund for European companies penalized by the introduction of sanctions, as is the case in the European Union's time to deal with Brexit. Here today, in a united way, we express above all great closeness and gratitude to the women and men of our Armed Forces; first and foremost to those who are engaged in these hours in the areas bordering Ukraine, Latvia and Romania, as a deterrent force of NATO to the increasing Russian military offensive; but also to the 1,400 young soldiers and the next 2,000 in the process of leaving, in the coming weeks, to guard NATO's borders. I feel like my family's concerns were in view of their displacement. This is a decision that we are not making lightly, as we are not making lightly the choice of sending weapons to Ukraine. We feel obliged to act in this way to support the Ukrainian people engaged in a harsh resistance to protect the safety of their own people, put in danger by Putin's aggression; an aggression that broke out against Ukraine, but also against the whole of Western democracy. It is a war that is changing international scenarios and also European politics. For the first time Europe is pushing to supply arms and other military equipment to a country near us, under attack, supporting its self-defense. Even Sweden, Germany, Finland, even Switzerland, countries that have traditionally never sent weapons to states that were at war, are sending military materials to Ukraine. All this is an expression of a new political awareness. Since we are faced with an act of explicit violence, we cannot stand by and watch. As the European Union, we are called upon to defend the respect for the borders, sovereignty and freedom of a neighbour of ours, which is protected from aggression; an awareness on which I believe that we must use it to speed up the construction of a common European defence which will give concrete form to our security policy in the event of aggression. With such a dangerous conflict in the heart of Europe, it is clear how necessary it is for Europe to have a political union and a defence union with adequate, modern and sufficient means to enable us to work for peace and against conflicts. Only in this way can Europe aspire to become the protagonist of peace processes and escape from passively suffering the wars of others; also because modern wars, as unfortunately demonstrated by the war in Ukraine, can also foresee new very insidious ways: cyberattacks, possible energy blackouts, tampering with nerve networks for the country. In this sense it is important that the resolution implements what has been hoped for in recent days by the Agency for National Cybersecurity and also by the Copasir, namely to adopt high cyber defence measures to protect the country's digital infrastructures. It is the interest of all individual countries and of Europe as a whole to implement every useful instrument aimed at preventing the war in Ukraine from degenerate further. In this respect, we must continue to support any multilateral initiative which may promote reconciliation. We certainly hope that the willingness to dialogue on the Russian side will be concrete and not of a façade and that the talks taking place in these hours at the Belarusian border will have a positive outcome and lead to an immediate ceasefire and stabilisation of the area. Otherwise, however, we believe that it might be useful to identify a third figure: an extraordinary commissioner accepted by both sides, a very thick figure that could serve as a bridge between Russia and Ukraine to overcome hostilities and to facilitate the end of the conflict. Unfortunately, this conflict already in its present dimension has devastating consequences for Ukraine, but also for the whole global security architecture, first and foremost for the large number of refugees that the war is causing. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) believes that at the moment there are already half a million refugees who, in these first days of the conflict, have sought protection in neighbouring countries and it is estimated that up to 7 million Ukrainians can be forced to flee from war and seek refuge in Europe: a real tragedy. The war in Ukraine and Russia's challenge to all free countries also teach us how important it is in energy supplies to avoid dependence on one country. That is why we need to work on diversifying energy sources at both national and European level, aiming at achieving an energy union, in order to reduce our energy fragility and allow us to avoid price fluctuations. As I approach the conclusions, Mr President, I would like to dedicate the thought of this House to our countrymen in Ukraine, a community - as President Draghi reminded us - of about 2,300 people. About ninety of them on the run found protection and hospitality thanks to our embassy. I would also like to express our gratitude to Ambassador Pier Francesco Zazo, to the staff in Kiev, to our officials and to our officials of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in Ukraine and to all the crisis unit of the Farnesina, who are working in these hours so that our compatriots can be evacuated safely. Finally, we feel that we can send a message of optimism to the Ukrainian people. Italy, together with Europe and US allies, intends to do its utmost to restore Ukraine's sovereignty, to defend Europe's security and to guarantee the integrity of the international order. We are a Union of peoples of peace and I believe it is right to accept the candidacy of Ukraine, a brother people fleeing from war, for a possible entry into the European Union. Putin perhaps thought he was marching undisturbed to Kiev and imagined a NATO and an unarmed Europe, but the events of the last few hours show instead that he was wrong. The effect it is causing is the exact opposite: it strengthens the alliance between us Western countries. Madam President, there is Europe, NATO as well as our voice, in defence of democracy and alongside Ukraine, and it is strong and clear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u19	Mr President, I have been speaking for the first time in this House since I was elected President of the Copasir, using the time that my Group has given me to highlight, first of all, precisely what the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic has done in recent months on the very issues that we will now have to deal with, in a climate of emergency in the wake of the war in our Europe. It will then be Senator La Russa, in his explanation of vote, who will explain the Group's position. Over the last few months, we have been working intensively with our colleagues in the Copasir, as required by the law, under conditions of secrecy, with investigations, hearings and analyses which we have taken into account in specific reports to Parliament - these yes - in public. In them we have highlighted, among other things, very clearly Russia's aggressive posture, not only in Ukraine and Eastern Europe, but in every area of strategic Italian and European interest: from the Balkans to the Caucasus, from the Mediterranean to the Sahel, according to a strategy aimed at maintaining energy supremacy, controlling raw materials, also in order to encircle our Europe. We had also pointed out what was happening in Belarus with the constitutional referendum; the new threats that arise in Bosnia and Kosovo; the strengthening of the Russian military device in Syria; the presence of Wagner's mercenaries in Libya and the military coups - six - in the Sahel, at the border of our enlarged Mediterranean, which pave the way for Wagner. Significant, however, only the joint naval maneuvers of Russia, China and Iran held in January in the Gulf of Oman. We had also made clear the need for a genuine European defence - as the President-in-Office of the Council pointed out today - complementary to NATO, in order to increase the defence of the Atlantic Alliance on our continent and in the enlarged Mediterranean. Soon we will deliver the report on space, as a geopolitical factor on which Italy, the sixth civil space power in the world, can play an important role. Defence and space will also be the subject of the decisions that Europe will have to take in March with the Strategic Compass and the project of strategic spatial autonomy, now more than ever necessary. However, we have already pointed out in the recent annual report how completely inadequate the European defence project, which in the state provides for a rapid intervention force of just 5,000 soldiers, when Italy alone has a device of 9,200 soldiers on international missions. The alleged commitments declared as a result of the wretched withdrawal from Afghanistan do not receive more resources; Indeed, in the new European budget, the resources allocated to the various European defence projects have actually been halved. Now it is clear to everyone that we need to change, because Europe is under threat and we will know how to do it. Precisely for this reason our first thought today goes to the Ukrainian resistance, to the families in the shelters that on social networks ask for help; to the girls who pack the Molotov bottles; to the workers who dig the trenches to slow the advance of the tanks. Our thoughts go to the young people who hold a rifle even though they have never done military service; to those who return home to defend their families and their land; to a heroic people who have finally discovered that they are a true nation without distinction of languages and religion, as never before in their own tortured history. [[Applause]] They remind us today, with the sacrifice of struggle, what our values are, awakening our numb consciences to them. Putin made a gamble that got the effect of raising global public opinion, united as never before. Even within Russia itself, there are protesters who risk imprisonment and repression. This is the first important lesson, a warning to anyone in the world who thinks that freedom also has a price, that is measurable in rubles, dollars or r enminbi; a warning to anyone in the world who thinks that freedom can be removed without raising the unanimous reaction of those who, like us, believe and live in freedom. The heroic resistance of the Ukrainians marks a first and an after in the global conflict between Western democracies and authoritarian systems, a turning point that will be marked in the calendar of history. What has happened to us must finally be a lesson to address issues that we have been putting aside for decades, as if they were affecting others, while they concern us and especially our children who will pay the price if we do not intervene immediately. Investment in defence is certainly necessary, as Germany has just done, but also investment in research, technology, training, the digital economy and artificial intelligence, space and cyber, energy sovereignty and the protection of strategic assets, without which any autonomy and independence can be preserved. The Copasir has presented six thematic reports and an annual report in this parliamentary term in which it has dealt with what is being discussed today. Ladies and gentlemen, none of these reports have yet been dealt with in a way that Parliament has done, although some of the important speeches we have mentioned have been made by the golden power system at the National Cybersecurity Agency which fills a ten-year delay. The same fate in the void had the other reports presented in previous legislation, as well as the annual reports of the Presidency of the Council. We have been too distracted about the issues of national security: we must now take note of them. A session of Parliament must be held soon, as we have specifically requested in our document sent to the Chambers before the situation falls. What is happening makes us understand how important the security of the Republic is and how much this must be considered in every decision we take, even when we address the issues of energy or the digital economy, technology, artificial intelligence, space as well as steel, infrastructure assets as industrial supply chains, knowing that our systemic opponents, i.e. authoritarian systems, use them fully in their comparison with Western democracies. All this is part of what is called a hybrid war. In this regard, we have highlighted the need to have economic intelligence at the service of the Italy system, which is proactive in protecting the country's science and technology and productive assets. Yes, it is true: sanctions are producing their devastating effects, but arms must also be stopped, responding to the heartfelt requests for help from those threatened in life and affections, as even countries that have always been historically neutral such as Switzerland and Sweden are doing. Now is the time of the field choices for everyone. Of course, we will also pay the costs of sanctions, especially as a result of the price of energy or - if you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen - as a result of our wrong energy choices that have made us more vulnerable than other European partners. [[Applause]] It is precisely on energy security that we presented a report to Parliament in January, in which we highlighted the criticalities of the system and its dangerous vulnerabilities, in the face of both the necessary ecological transition and the hegemonic action of the state actors. In that report we already identified some solutions that were the subject of the urgent decree in these hours and concluded that it was necessary to implement an energy security plan that would reduce dependence from abroad and above all from Russia, with the objective of energy independence and productive and technological autonomy, in collaboration with Western European partners, also in view of the increasingly evident geopolitical factors and risks already at that time. In the annual report... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ..for the security of the cyber network. Yesterday, however, the Agency launched a particularly significant alarm, also because Russia is the best equipped state in the world for cyber warfare. To complete the defensive line we recalled the need to implement the national public administration cloud and the single public-controlled network as soon as possible. I'm finishing. Ladies and gentlemen, Russia has long been preparing for confrontation with the West. He's been investing in the two weapons he owns for ten years: energy resources and the armed forces. It aims to control the raw materials and borders of Europe, to subdue Ukraine today, to subdue the Baltic Republics, Georgia and Moldova tomorrow. Now we all know why and we must raise the level of defence, even in the face of a world in which other equally aggressive actors emerge, first of all China, the primary technological and productive power, capable, indeed, of aspiring to global supremacy. We can't escape history, but we can change it. With the unitary resolution that we will vote today, a new phase in the political life of the country really begins, that sees us always united when the security of the Republic is at stake and, with it, the fundamental values of our civilization. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u20	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u21	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we share your words, the concerns you have expressed and, if I may say so, the emotional tension you have experienced in your speech. On the other hand, Putin has upset all the rules underlying the international community: the inviolability of borders, respect for territorial integrity, refusal of armed aggression for the purpose of resolving disputes. It is a turning point, it is a moment of fracture within the international community as it has not been seen for a long time: a nuclear world power that attacks a sovereign state. He crossed the red line. Did you do this to redefine the architecture of European security? Probably too, but I don't think that's the main motivation. There has long been the willingness of the partners of the Atlantic Alliance to discuss those rules again, in the name of the indivisibility of European security. Did you do that to sit at the big boys' table? Probably. In the confrontation between two great powers, the United States and China, with the shift of the strategic axis in Indopacifico, Russia raised its hand and I think, from this point of view, that it is interested not in a Helsinki 2, as from several parts (on our side and from Europe) is required in this sense, but more to a Yalta 2, in which he is seen in the shoes of Stalin, with Xi Jinping and, instead of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Biden. But the main point, which has also recently put in its rhetoric on the spheres of influence, is that NATO should not be enlarged to Ukraine. This has also provoked - as President Casini recalled in his speech - a sort of justificationism in European societies and public opinion. I think that, if there was also an assessment in this regard, the armed aggression has wiped out all this and there is no room for distinction, ambiguity or equidistantity: we must say which side we are on with great clarity. We are on the side of the European countries and the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause.]] Everyone in Europe can have his idea - and I say this to Mr Di Maio too - about Ukraine's rapprochement with NATO. I personally have always had great doubts - I say this here - as did Italian diplomacy in the past: I remember in 2008 what is written in the minutes. That's not the point, though. The point is not what individual European countries think, but what Ukrainians think. The point is that to decide on the approach to the European institutions or NATO or to what model of society, whether to a society with liberal democracy, are the Ukrainian people and the Government legitimately and democratically voted, and not Putin [[Applause]] We, in fact, live in a society, that of liberal democracies, where journalists do not put themselves in jail, where political opponents do not lock themselves in prison. We are in a free society and that is the model to which the Ukrainians aspire. This is the key point. We therefore come to the fundamental consideration of which I would like all of us to be aware and to which I would like a clear indication from this Parliament. The real theme is the powerful, unstoppable contagion of democracy. This is what is frightening Putin: the possibility of democracy moving forward and that those shy demonstrations that we are witnessing in Russia may grow and question Putin's regime. [[Applause]] Europe's reaction has been unprecedented. As President Draghi knows, one of the most widely used diplomatic expressions in European fora is that Europe is deeply concerned. That is the formula with which in Europe - Minister Di Maio knows this - we have often hidden our impotence, the inability of European countries to unite and to take strong and clear positions. At the end of my speech I shall be able to talk about this. Today, however, we are putting in place an unprecedented deterrent: Europe and the United States, the Atlantic Alliance are moving together, as never before, perhaps even remembering the defeat in Afghanistan. And they realized that this was the last bank in front of a Russia that thought it would be a free field for the European countries and the Atlantic Alliance. At this point the NATO devices are inserted, the measures to combat cyber attacks, the decisions to send - not lightly, I imagine, by Minister Guerini - the soldiers in the eastern flank of Eastern Europe; soldiers who certainly go to our closeness and gratitude for the work they are doing. [[Applause]] This also applies to individual sanctions and, above all, to trade sanctions. No government ever approaches these themes with facilonia does so with effort, and is part of the difficulty of governing. We have always provided for a moment of reflection in the European Councils every six months, when sanctions should be renewed. We have done so because we know that it is a delicate instrument, which has sometimes shown inefficiency. But this time we cannot joke: we need the maximum compactness and at the same time we must do what we talked about last week in this Chamber, in the information of Minister Di Maio, when we said that it would be necessary to negotiate forms of compensation for the countries and for the sectors most affected. Italy has an important manufacturing sector. Like Germany, we have an integration with the Russian economy. It's inevitable. However, before economic considerations come the fundamental values and principles in which we believe. So the European Union has done well to react from this point of view. Similarly we share the idea of energy diversification, of extraordinary measures that we would not share in ordinary normal phases, ça va sans dire. From this point of view we believe that an indication of a strengthening of Community instruments and of the ability to communitize some of the policies - as we did under the pressure of the Covid for the union of health - must also be made in the direction of an energy union that goes beyond strategic storage and decides together the needs, the ways of building a shared strategy. I am going to the most sensitive and complex issue, which is that of military aid. It's a bloody complicated, distressed choice that affects our deepest identity. We as Europeans had banned war from history, but we know that peace is a conquest not forever, but it must be accomplished day by day, and the protection of peace must be cultivated. From this point of view, therefore, we approach with great caution. It is good to banish from public debate hysterisms and superficial slogans. We move, even in these dramatic hours, in the wake of Article 11 of the Constitution, which repudiates war as an instrument of offense. But in this case a country has been attacked, it has been attacked and the United Nations Charter, in Article 51, has provided - and we call it in our Constitution - for the possibility of legitimately defending itself. The Ukrainian people must be given the opportunity to defend themselves legitimately. Therefore, in an extraordinary way, limited to this so delicate historical juncture, we agree to derogate from Law No 185 of 1990, which is a balanced law, which prevents giving arms to countries in war. We do it in an extraordinary phase and we don't do it lightly. [[Applause]] But this must be a lesson to us. I mentioned earlier the phrase on Europe, which is deeply concerned, to tell President Draghi that perhaps this is the window of opportunity that opens to relaunch political union, which in March, when his work as President of the Council began, had set itself as one of the issues. Perhaps with Europe at 27 we will not be able to combine a very strong push towards political union, but we can do so with Germany and France. Already the new Quint formats say that Italy, France and Germany work together in this crisis. Here, I think that, as in 1950, more than seventy years ago, three enlightened men like Schuman, Adenauer and De Gasperi were able to point the way by putting coal and steel together, for which we had fought in the previous century, this is an opportunity to put together the women and men of our armies and our military devices with a shared political agenda. I think you, Mr President, Olaf Scholz and Emmanuel Macron have a great opportunity, a historic opportunity to push towards the political union of our continent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u23	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what we feared was happening. Putin has used the last few months to justify military intervention in Ukraine. He reminded us until the obsession that the flag hoisted at the end of the Berlin battle on the Brandenburg gate in 1945, at the cost of 20 million dead, was the red flag of the Soviet Union. He reiterated more than once that Kohl's promise to Gorbachev in 1990 to obtain Soviet assent to German reunification was that NATO would not advance to the right of Germany. He has repeated on many occasions that that promise has not been kept and that the Atlantic Alliance has reached the borders of Russia, causing its perception of insecurity. And, again, how many times has he declared that the departure between Russia and Ukraine originated from the events of Maidan Square and that orange revolution, from the perhaps still obscure contours, so much so that Russia today, in Putin's words, does not recognize the state reality of Ukraine and obviously does not recognize even the democratic elections of Zelensky and its predecessors? He also managed to talk about the need to denazize Ukraine and the Azov battalion, with its symbols, certainly did not help. But all this historical reconstruction and perhaps even the re-enactment of Yalta's spirit is not enough and does not justify what today is simply a military invasion, an aggression against an independent nation, with borders clearly recognized by the international community. Russian intervention in Ukraine is nothing more than the modern re-edition of the concept of limited sovereignty, of the Soviet era, of the Stalinian and Breznevian era, and perhaps also of that Tsarist imperialism which subjugated 197 nationalities between Europe and Asia in the eighteenth century. And it is precisely that Imperial Tsarist flag rehabilitated in 1992 by Yeltsin, who along with the Russian flag accompanies Putin's television apparitions these days, that symbolically grants us the interpretation of the continuity between that Tsarist empire, that Soviet Union and Russia of the current Head of the Kremlin. Putin repeated several times that Ukraine does not exist as a nation. The affinity of the language, the fact that the Russian Orthodox Church was born in what is now the territory of Ukraine have done the rest and tell it a lot about how the Russians understand the history of that great border country: "Ukraine", which according to the literal translation means "on the border", is the obligatory state bearing between Russia itself and the so-called Western powers. However, we must remember that Ukraine is also the largest multi-ethnic country in which two indigenous ethnic groups have always lived together, not the result of a subsequent migration. And it is the country that gave birth to the father of Russian literature Nikolaj Gogol', the first to use the Russian language, considered until then too popular to belong to the literature. This shows how fratricidal the conflict of the last few days is. What is happening - and it is not the first conflict in Europe, from the Second World War to the former Yugoslavia, which still brings the wounds of what happened in the 1990s - is the last piece in a temporal sense of an escalation that starts from 2008 with the invasion of Georgia and sees the increase of Russian intervention in several scenarios, from the Middle East to Central Africa, without forgetting Libya, always in an anti-Western key. The history of these days, however, is also full of errors of assessment: our - European - underestimating the alarm invasion launched by the United States. What we would have liked to interpret as an instrument of deterrent has turned - as Biden said - into a military encircling operation of Ukraine. Then there was the Russian underestimation of patriotism and the Ukrainians' ability to recapture around their President; the flash operation that was certainly in the initial objectives and probably also counted on the contrasts within the Ukrainian Government; the resistance of the population, which was stronger than expected, although the weight on the ground of the two Nations remains strongly unbalanced in favor of Russia. We cannot pretend not to understand that Ukrainian resilience has so far been possible because the Russian advance has been - as they say - soft, if anything this adjective can approach a war. The electricity grid, communications and also many national transport services - the first to be destroyed in a conflict - were up to a few hours ago spared by the Russians, otherwise the story of the last few days would have been very different. The danger is that the attitude on the ground, following a possible failure of the Gomel talks, can radically change at all risk of a population that is fighting, including civilians, and that we Europeans are arming with sophisticated military means. However, we have also seen a qualitative leap in European action. The Union's capacity and speed of response have certainly been commendable on the triple line agreed also at NATO level: direct support for Ukraine, isolation of Russia through sanctions and defence of neighbouring countries, in particular with the increase of military presence in those participating in NATO; therefore speed, but also rationality. I believe that the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Mr Borrell, is right when he says that today the priority is to stop the conflict: to speed up Ukraine's hypothetical accession to the Union would not help the peace process in the area. This does not prevent us from starting with determination the necessary political path, however, also to the endowment of a European military instrument, which cannot be Eurocorps in its present configuration, without a head and political leadership. As the President of the Military Committee of the European Union, General Claudio Graziano, explained, the answer in these cases is the result of three factors: political, economic and military. I stress the product of factors, not the sum of addends: if a factor is equal to zero, the product is also zero. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. We don't know what's gonna happen in the next few hours on the ground. We don't even know Putin's final targets. It may be - the military strategy seems to prove it - that it aims at the subdivision of Ukraine: an Ukraine east of Dnepr and one west and necessarily and of course that piece of Ukraine that would remain to the right of the river Dnepr would be of strict Russian observance. At the point where we are, however, we can only say that, in the face of an extraordinary and very dangerous emergency which is what we are facing, we Europeans and we Italians have been able to give a strong, convincing and perhaps even positive response. Precisely for these reasons, we will strongly support your Government for every initiative that will be put in place to support Ukraine, isolate Russia and limit its claims. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u24	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u25	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at the gates of our home, in the heart of Europe, there has been a bloody conflict, which brings the hands of history back to a past that we thought was closed down. It is a systemic conflict, of epochal scope from the point of view of international balances where we will redefine alliances and patterns within and outside the borders of the West, on the economic and humanitarian front. It is therefore clear to all that difficult months await us, in which, without hesitation, we will be called to defend values and principles, to prevent the law of arrogance and not of international law from taking precedence over the international scene. We will be called upon to do so in a context that is not simple, aggravated by the launch of an unprecedented package of economic and financial and commercial sanctions; indisputable, necessary, hard as it should be. We know, however, that sanctions, by their very nature, are bidirectional, but we cannot give in. It served and needed a strong and coordinated response from the West and Europe. The more firm and tough this response is, the more credible we will be and we will be able to stem this crisis with our own weapons and reopen the channels of dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, in the history of peoples and nations freedom has never been a gift, it has been a conquest, and freedom has a cost. Our freedom and the defense of an international order based on shared rules and values still cost less than that paid in the past. Today, fortunately, we are not yet in a position - I do not know how long - to pay the highest tribute: the one that puts the lives of our men at risk. The price, however, will be economic and it will be up to us to limit the social costs that will be passed on to families. That is why today we not only have the political and moral obligation to present ourselves to the country united and to return the image of a united nation, Government and Parliament, majority and opposition; but we also have the duty to speak to the country the language of truth and to take specific commitments before it, asking for as much clarity and commitment to our international partners and to the European Union itself. The rhetoric wants us to say that we are coming out of crises stronger: that is not the case. The crisis is only stronger if we learn from them and we, Italy, Europe, we West have to learn a lot from the Ukrainian crisis. The first lesson to be learned is geopolitical: unity of intent is needed. The divisions between the two sides of the Atlantic during this period have not gone unnoticed; they have given rise to too many misunderstandings, which have fueled the illusion of our competitors and probably encouraged bad choices. I hope, however, that this is a weakness behind us, and we have given a broad and shared response. We must then be clear about the challenges. In Europe there has been a widespread underestimation of the Ukrainian affair which, together with the unpredictability - and, let me say, the untrustworthiness - of Russia presents us with this dramatic reality. On the economic front, too, we need to learn a lesson for the future. As I said, difficult times are still waiting for us and the energy front deserves special attention. We have to be honest: on the subject we discount many mistakes of the past. For the future, we need to know that our freedom and our being sovereigns like Italy and Europe also pass from a form of non-energy dependence. Another issue not disconnected from the Ukrainian crisis is that of European reforms. We know that at the end of this year the rules of the Stability Pact will be suspended. Here, the dreams of a restoration tout court of the parameters for the supervision of European budgetary policies must be put permanently in the drawer after the Ukrainian aggression. Let me conclude by expressing closeness to the struggle for the freedom of the Ukrainian people, because freedom is life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u27	President Draghi, over the past few hours we have committed ourselves, so that I would not say anything but exceptional, to reaching agreement throughout Parliament on the motion for a resolution that we are shortly beginning to support and vote on. This gives a sense of how extraordinary and anomalous this situation certainly is, but also of how much it has led us to the need for awareness and action together, on which the debate this morning is also based. However, we cannot but start from an analysis and a consideration, namely the defeat of the West and our policy, which had to avoid this confrontation, without succeeding. This is a question that does not belong to these hours, but on which we will have to work, because we cannot afford or admit that the condition that we have before us, namely that of two countries entering war in Europe, is happening. We certainly need to be aware that actions made with chalks or flags rolled up with a bit of banality and rhetoric are not enough to respond to what has happened between Russia and Ukraine in recent days. [[Applause]] We also need very important diplomatic actions, and we also need to make it clear that the effects of this are the waves of refugees that we see in the last hours at the railway stations in Poland and at the border of the Western countries looking towards Ukraine. Mr President, let me point out the difference between these refugees (women and children who leave their husbands to fight to defend their country) and those who, unfortunately, we used to see coming from Africa with the boatmen. This is a war situation, even thousands of miles from our borders. These refugees will come and welcome them as they do to those fleeing war zones. However, we must return to a situation of peace in those territories, because we cannot afford - for so many reasons, not least the many weaknesses that we are rediscovering in those hours - that this condition will continue further or even widen and increase. Mr President, we also need to pay close attention to a concept that we do not want to see replicated, namely the export of democracy with bombs. It did not work in Libya and Iraq and would never work in a complex and delicate situation such as the current one between Russia and Ukraine. We therefore need strong action and we ask the Government for the maximum commitment to de-escalation. We have clearly written this in the motion for a resolution that we are going to vote on today: a ceasefire must be reached quickly. We cannot allow this situation to continue any further; we cannot allow the Ukrainians to stand up to this aggression and we cannot allow further escalation. [[Applause]] Support for the government's action will be total. We would have preferred, as is the case with good grammar and parliamentary practice, that the Government's decisions should follow the guidelines that Parliament is giving today. [[Applause]] We take note of the situation, we know that in emergency we must make a good face to these conditions as well. President, use your mandate from Parliament well and always take into account that this war rewrites the entire political and economic agenda, not only of Europe, but of our country. There is no more ecological transition, there are no more security that we had until yesterday. We need a healthy pragmatism and this situation, unfortunately, in its dramatic nature, obliges us to a strong bath of realism. We cannot be more dependent on our energy supplies as we are now. This also means limiting our freedom, including taking action against situations such as those we have seen in Libya, Iraq, South-East Asia and those we see today between Ukraine and Russia. Foreign policy must have the upper hand, not the use of weapons. Mr President, let us insist that the Italian Government should do everything it has to do to assert our good office, to achieve a de-escalation and a situation of peace that will also allow us to resume in our country an economic situation that has already been affected by the pandemic. We cannot afford to move from a pandemic state of emergency to a war-related state of emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u28	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u29	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing with sincere affection, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, our closeness and solidarity to all the women and men of Ukraine who are suffering this criminal aggression. [[Applause]] A closeness that stretches to the more than 200,000 Ukrainians, most women, who are in Italy and who watch with dismay the evil attack that is suffering their country. A charming country that I had the opportunity to visit as an OSCE delegate during the monitoring of the presidential elections in 2019, in which Zelensky was elected. President, the military attack on Ukraine is an unjustifiable act that we all condemn with firmness and intransigence, asking Russia to stop military operations immediately. War, as provided for in Article 11 of our Constitution, cannot be the means of resolving international disputes. Weapons are not the instrument to settle geopolitical disputes, the violent submission of a people is never tolerable; the only way to go is through diplomacy and dialogue. [[Applause]] President Draghi, if there is war today, it is because politics has failed. When bullets take the place of words, it's because there was a communication short circuit. Politics, the Western one, in recent decades has failed to understand that the Russian encircling syndrome was real and the virulence of the attack that we are witnessing these days unfortunately confirms it. This is a decisive moment for European history, an opportunity to demonstrate strength, civilization, unity and the ability to speak with one voice and with one strategy. This voice, in my opinion, must be that of peace. Instinct prompts to react immediately with aggression, but reason now suggests prudence and wisdom, as the Constituent has foreseen in the aforementioned article 11. After only four days there was already a prospect of nuclear deterrence. Events are happening very quickly. It is urgent to de-escalation, also because a probable direct war with the Russian Federation for our country would not be like that had with the Island of the Roses; it would be a conflict against a nuclear power possessing over 6,000 atomic devices. Putin has already warned that they will hit convoys carrying weapons. In my view, at this stage we need extreme lucidity and prudence. We must, in these dark hours, avoid triggering chain effects that will fuel the chances that the spark that can cause us to sink into World War III will be triggered: of this I believe we are all aware of it. It is desirable to continue with severe sanctions and to starve especially the oligarchs and the Russian ruling class. The country has an economy that already blows, Russian GDP is fragile, equivalent to that of Spain. Moscow is a giant with clay feet. It is also necessary to use public opinion in Moscow and to strengthen the role of the OSCE, especially at this time: even if it is shaky, there is a negotiating table that needs to be supported. [[Applause]] We have been coming for extremely complex years: first the financial crisis of subprime mortgages, which has destabilised the financial and economic system; then terrorism with al Qaeda and ISIS, which has inoculated fear and mistrust; for two years we have been at war against an invisible enemy that has caused millions of deaths, putting a strain on the health and economic system. Today we cannot allow this conflict to degenerate; the citizens ask us for peace. Our task is to do everything possible, indeed the impossible, to guarantee it. A peace that we of the Movimento 5 Stars, born not by chance on 4 October, St. Francis' day, have always pursued, not in a formal but substantial way. That is why we have also condemned the attacks on former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya in the past. Wars are always horror and destruction, since the consequences are felt by citizens, particularly the most fragile, such as children. [[Applause]] If a book of history is opened, it can be seen that the most significant dates of humanity have been marked by wars. Today, more than ever, we must strive to change paradigms and build a new future from the present. The costs of a prolonged war, for our already fragile economy, would be incalculable. As our president, Giuseppe Conte, recently said, we are working immediately on a recovery plan for war. We cannot move from a pandemic to a war by leaving families and businesses to face a tsunami with an umbrella. We are convinced that a common European approach is indispensable not only for the actions that will be taken, but also to deal with their consequences. A solidarity support and compensation mechanism is essential, taking into account the different national reports, which can respond in a proportionate way to the economic damage suffered by individual countries. That is why, President, the 5 Star Movement calls on the Government to make itself Europe's spokesperson for the proposal to make the Next generation EU, the first real European common debt issue, structural. Italy imports almost half of the gas needed for its needs from Russia. You correctly said in this House last Friday that we need to increase energy production on our own. However, this crisis cannot and must not be a justification for going back in terms of sources of energy supply. Mr President, coal-fired power stations, just like war, must be relegated and left in the past. [[Applause]] Also because climate change could be the hardest conflict to have to fight if we do not take immediate action, with intelligence and foresight. We have been pointing the way for years: sobriety, renewable energy, energy communities, superbonus 110 percent. These are the tools to be taken into account to prevent harmful scenarios. The images of the last hours coming from Ukraine are bleak: missiles that hit residential areas, tanks that are advancing. Colleagues, the risk is that there will be a humanitarian tragedy of unprecedented proportions. As it is written in the motion for a resolution, we must immediately activate a plan for the reception of Ukrainian refugees by involving the world of volunteering and associationism, bringing out those realities that are the noblest part of our country. Programmes must be implemented as soon as possible to support the Ukrainian population [[Applause]] Even the Russian people do not want war and here I would like to thank very sincerely all those protesters who marched for peace in St. Petersburg and other cities, subject to the consequences. I conclude by saying that the united Europe, which was founded on the ruins of the Second World War, must be mobilized even more in order to achieve an immediate ceasefire. But, Mr Draghi, the use of arms as a deterrent and resistance on the Western side makes sense if balanced by a declaration of historical conclusion of NATO's expansionism towards the East. [[Applause]] The path of negotiation and diplomacy must be the main one. Now the darkness seems to prevail, but we must keep the light of hope on, also because from this conflict the consequences are the citizens of Europe, we are all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u30	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Casini, Faraone, Ciriani, Malpezzi, De Petris, Bernini, Romeo and Castellone, No 2, Senator Nugnes and other Senators, No 3, Senator Crucioli and other Senators, No 4, Senator Fattori, No 5, Senator Paragone and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senate for the depth, breadth and sensitivity of all the speeches. I have very little to add but a few quick comments. When there are big changes - and what we are experiencing is more than a big change - the feeling that we all have is to enter a period completely different from everything we have seen so far, a long period; we are talking about an existential moment, in which the future will radically change. When there are these moments, the first drive is to deal with oneself and others, and to say: "I had seen right, you had not seen right, you were wrong; did you see that I am right?" Or say, "I was wrong, but there were good reasons." Well, I have a feeling that this is somewhat marginal. Now is not the time to deal with yourself and others [[Applause]] ; It's time to deal with history, not with the past but with that of today and tomorrow. I am more clear: our history, taken away from the last eighty years, is a story of massacres of wars, tyrannies, dictators and very long wars. This is the secular history that has accompanied us and it is this story - like the jungle lianas that enter our garden of peace, to which I referred before - that is entering our present and our future. It's this story that we have to deal with. At this point, therefore, the past, the whole of everything we have done, even the mistakes, is useful because it improves personal awareness, but it is useless if it divides us. What we have before us must unite, it is a battle for the future - especially the future of children, the future of young people - to be as preserved as possible as our past has been: a past of peace and freedom. [[Applause]] When these moments of great changes occur, of great contrasts, the reaction is necessary, but we must be careful, we must ensure that the reaction does not change our values, otherwise the opponent always wins, wins that story that we want to keep out of our present. [[Applause]] Among these values - I have repeatedly spoken of democracy, freedom, peace and a desire for prosperity - there are also the decisions we have recently taken to combat climate change, there is the ecological transition to be defended. So when we talk about energy and the importance of dealing with the present, we have to do it with the knowledge that it is a time that we need to deal with this emergency, but it does not change what we have decided about the fundamental importance of combating climate change. As for the second point, I first heard that everyone says that we need more Europe, that there are invocations in this sense, that then they leave the time they find, because no one follows them. In fact, what has changed today is that there is more Europe, Europe's response has been ready, firm, rapid, strong and above all united. This is the big change compared to that somewhat eager attitude of the last decades (not of years or months), so this is a very important thing. They saw us powerless, maybe Putin saw us powerless, saw us divided, saw us intoxicated by our wealth, but it was wrong: we were and will be ready to react, to fight and not do it because we want to defend our aggressive expansionism (I am thinking of those who said that we want NATO to go everywhere), this is what he does, but we do it to defend our values. [[Applause]] The third point concerns the need for diplomacy and dialogue. I had hoped, as you have seen, that this monstrosity could be avoided until the end, but we did not succeed, and this in my opinion was partly due to the fact that everything had been premeditated for a long time. As we move forward, we see certain actions, such as the fact that the reserves of the Russian central bank have been increased six times since the invasion of Crimea to the present day, because on that occasion there was actually a major difficulty, and as one usually does a part of those reserves has been left in deposit with other central banks around the world, and another part has been deposited with normal banks. There's almost nothing left. Everything's been taken away. These things are not done in one day, but are done in months and months; so I have no doubt that there was much premeditation and much preparation. I'm going back to the dialogue. Of course, one must think that in the end all this comes out with peace and, in order to reach peace, dialogue is needed. But I feel like this isn't the time. You saw yesterday President Macron's second and third attempts to speak and you saw that President Macron's statements were denied every time by the Russian source statements. The time will come and for this it is necessary to always keep the attention alert; it is necessary to grasp that moment, when it presents itself. I have the impression that that moment is not now but we are ready, in any case. Today is a time when the Senate has discussed substantially the fact that the founding values of our Republic are threatened and, in the face of this threat, the Senate wanted to express its support to President Zelensky, to the Ukrainians, to the support action that Italy does and will do on a humanitarian level and to the Government. And for that I want to thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u32	I would ask Mr Amendola to give the Government's opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u33	Mr President, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1, by Mr Casini, Mr Faraone, Mr Ciriani, Mr Malpezzi, Mr De Petris, Mr Bernini, Mr Romeo and Mr Castellone, and against the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u37	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). There are times when you are alone with God and with your conscience. Then all that you are and that you have been surfaced, takes you to the throat, grabs you the will and makes you walk along the path, which may be harsh and crooked, but which is yours. These are words collected by Alcide De Gasperi on the eve of his political failure, which was the European defence community; on the eve of the rejection by the French National Assembly, on 30 August 1954. Colleagues, it's been 70 years, and today we've come back to the same point dramatically. This story has opened our eyes to us, the parliamentary debate today has been a great moment for the Senate and a great moment for confrontation between the Government and Parliament, because the Government is stronger if it does not proceed in solitude, but it is being comforted by Parliament, and Parliament itself is strong if it becomes central in the debate and in the taking of decisions. Colleagues, De Gasperi was distressed, in 1954, because he understood that a strong European soul cannot only be based on economy, portfolio or currency, but must necessarily breathe with a political soul. So this brings us to a dramatic point where we can see how essential a common European foreign and defence policy is for all of us today. We are in agreement with the Government and this resolution, which I have had the honour to sign on behalf of the Group for the Self-Governments, explains how the dramatic event of these hours has awakened in all serious rulers the awareness that we must work to reactivate a strong European system also from the point of view of the common foreign and defence policy, restoring meaning to NATO. I do not intend to say anything to our men of government, because, from the President-in-Office of the Council to the Foreign Minister, from the Minister of the Interior to the Minister of Defence, I believe that never as at this time they are warning that there is a strong consensus of Parliament around their action, which is explained very well in this motion for a resolution. It has some fundamental parts, which I would like to recapitulate for those who listen to us on television: first of all solidarity, not in words but in deeds, towards the Ukrainian people; without reservation condemning action that has no justification; commitment to Europe and NATO; sanctions. Moreover, the sanctioning element gives strength to solidarity, which otherwise is a chatty solidarity that serves nothing. We are also talking about the reception of refugees and we are bowing to the thousands of Ukrainians who bravely fight in their country during these hours. [[Applause]] We must be proud that European citizens like us show this awareness and strength and at the same time we must welcome them, otherwise we would not be consistent. Another point is a request for immediate withdrawal: all peace negotiations are of no use unless immediate withdrawal is the prerequisite. These are fictions that serve propaganda. We are also asking for a new energy strategy for us, what was defined yesterday in Algeria by talking about new energy partnerships, which will allow us not to be dependent on a single supplier for 43%. Another request is to revise the Stability Pact, and on this I believe that perhaps the President of the Italian Council will have a few more voices than others, because he has handled these matters effectively in the past. Finally, there is the issue of weapons on which I want to say something very serious. I always defend Parliament and its centrality; Parliament is informed in this case, but in my opinion it is not a precedent, because it is necessary for Parliament to be in the decision-making process, but this is largely justified by the time we are living and also by the emergency we have: we cannot start discussing at this stage; having the same sentiment as the Government, we must give a delegation, of course being informed. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech not by talking to our colleagues in the government, but to a colleague of mine from the 5 Stars, Senator Ferrara, because I value him. I see him in the Foreign Affairs Committee, most of the time we do not agree, we do not agree in this case either, but I must admit that he is a person who believes in his ideas, so he must be respected. Senator Ferrara said that wars are always horror and destruction, especially towards women and children. Senator Ferrara, I fully subscribe to your words. These are right words, but when I spoke in my previous speech about the gigantic collective blunder that we took from Putin, I was referring precisely to this. We agree on photographing war in this way, and our Constitution requires us to do this; if we were warriors, we would be out of what the Constitution requires us to do. Who swears allegiance to the Republic swears allegiance to the Constitution. We are parliamentarians on the basis of this constitutional element. But, Mr Ferrara, you added that we now see how real the Russian encircling syndrome was and justified these actions. No, Senator Ferrara, this is where you're wrong, if you'll allow me (this is my opinion). Do you know what probably convinced the Russians to act? The hasty abandonment of Afghanistan by Europeans and Americans. [[Applause]] We have proved to be weak, and being weak, the wrongdoer eats us. Then, the posture of the Government and Parliament, in this case, is to be fully signed; it is a posture of Italian people and people, of a homeland, in which we identify ourselves, serious, which says: we are for peace, but in the face of arrogance and abuse we defend those who are attacked, we are not equidistant. Because there is no equal distance to proclaim, but a choice to take. It is difficult and painful, but it does not contrast with that sentiment that Senator Ferrara has evoked and that I subscribe to. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us move forward with serenity but also firmly on this path. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u40	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, when the Russian invasion began, in the face of the cannons, the counter-measures of the European Union and the West appeared, to superficial commentators (because then the events proved the opposite) insufficient. The impotence of democracy - it has been said - against the efficiency of the autocracy. And yet, Mr President, as you have told us, it is not going that way, thankfully. We are demonstrating that the tiring democracy, which smells of freedom, can overcome the challenge against the foul-smelling national populism. Yes, because that is the challenge, Mr President, and it is not only the fate of Ukraine that is at stake. I also agree with you when you say that Europe is there and is becoming aware of itself, taking unprecedented measures. It does so - I think it is one of the first times - without vetoes inside, without distinction. The effects of this monolithic action are seeing everyone and Italy is there. I thank you, Mr President, and I thank the Government, because thanks to your action we are there and it was not obvious. A fury of responding to the crises of our time we are building the real Europe. The European bonds were unthinkable before, President, and they became reality only after a crisis, the pandemic crisis. The same can be said for the revision of the Stability Pact or for European health management. Just as there is concrete discussion of common European military defence only after this crisis, which brings back the war in Europe after 1939. In the same way, only after this crisis do we realize dramatically the need for sovereignty and energy independence. Yet this has not always been the case, Mr President. Sometimes even after a violent crisis - I am referring to the illegal invasion of Crimea - we have reacted as well as now, if I think we have even increased our dependence on Russian gas, rather than reducing it. We have mistakenly trusted an autocrate not only in political relations, President; we have handed him the fates of our drivers, our companies, the heats of our homes, our lazy ecological transition, shutting down our power stations, blocking our gas extractions, even hindering renewables with a terrible bureaucracy. The time has come to move on, Mr President. We have once again been talking about European delays and, more importantly, Italian delays, which have now been forced to demand a second recovery after the pandemic, the energy one, and on this, Mr President, we are asking you for greater strength and determination. In the wake of a fund, that of Brexit, of more than 5 billion, today it will need one capacity at least double. At the same time, we are once again stressing the need for Atlanticism and friendship with the Americans, which is decisive and strategic, although unfortunately, in recent years, Mr President, not so obvious. But Europe must also find its own dimension. It is not always - and this is increasingly the case - that the United States will show coincident interests in the international dimension and that Europe cannot remain immobile. In Afghanistan, President Casini said well, we have passed the message that we are not interested in the freedom of others if that freedom does not coincide with our interests and that is not good, Mr President. Putin felt free in Ukraine to invade a sovereign country. International law has been violated. We cannot intervene directly militarily, as President Biden has well said, because we risk the third world war, but we have not been unarmed and Europe, for the first time, has taken unprecedented measures: it has bought arms and given them to Ukraine; it has closed air space to Russian flights; it has closed ports; it has imposed sanctions also on Belarus. Putin will not fall just for this; he will fall if we isolate him in the world community and in internal public opinion. The demonstrations in Russia and the squares around the world are a wonderful testimony. Putin will fall, if Europe is a model, a horizon for the peoples that Putin wants to occupy: the more merciless the confrontation will be, the sooner it will be overturned. Today we have a Europe that helps a country under attack and offers it to enter Europe; we have a Europe that this time welcomes refugees and decides to defend itself, a Europe that says 'here we do not pass', that does not choose war, but chooses to defend peace, a Europe that today, in the place of maximum democratic representation, hosts Ukrainian President Zelensky, leader of a people who has shown the world what the resistance and defence of their freedom means. Putin has managed to convince the European countries of NATO to invest more on military spending. Putin invades Ukraine because he does not want it in NATO - a pretext, as President Casini also said here, since other countries are part of NATO and are neighbouring - and, despite the objective of preventing Ukraine's entry into NATO, gets the opposite effect, bringing back the fashion of NATO, until a few days ago considered an archaic instrument and démodé. Today it is Putin who dusted it and gave it a function. In this regard, Mr President, I would return to the proposal made by Senator Matteo Renzi, taken up yesterday by the Director of the Russian Council for International Affairs, that the negotiations should be conducted by a single NATO-EU envoy and Angela Merkel has this profile. Today, and I close, Mr. President, "The Reformist" has titled "Spes contra spem", the hope against all hope, an expression taken from a letter from the apostle Paul. This is what we must have now because, between the day negotiations and the bombs at night, between the harsh sanctions, the blockade of the Swift, the opposition of the international community in Putin, the pacifist marches, solidarity and closeness to the Ukrainian refugees can and must remain precisely the desire for hope that goes beyond all hope, that of negotiating a true and stable peace and, above all, a just peace. Mr President, I am therefore voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 and it is good that Parliament votes in its entirety. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u43	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say at once that I appreciated your report; for a patriotic opposition force it is not the first time, but it is significant that, in this case, the Brothers of Italy have full support for the joint initiative of the whole Parliament and the whole nation in support of the Ukrainian people and their good reasons without whether or not. That is why my thoughts go immediately to those who are fighting in Ukraine, to the Ukrainian Armed Forces who have not surrendered, and - as my friend Adolfo Urso said before - to the girls who are preparing with bottles of beer Molotov, to the workers who contribute to tear down bridges and viaducts and dig trenches, to families with children in the cellars and improvised shelters, because no one thought it was so urgent to imagine in Kiev the existence of shelters. A conscious thought of the turning point that this story represents for the world: there is a first and there is a following Russia's aggression against Ukraine. We are faced with the need no longer to remove what we have removed for too long, namely that war is not an impossible thing, that multicolored flags are not enough, that unilateral peace is not enough and less unilateral pacifism and that every day we must build peace knowing that war can exist. It's the only way to be prepared. Today, after Putin's incredible act of Russia, we have a much wider solidarity than we could have expected. Putin's Russia probably did not expect a Ukrainian resistance to what was imagined as a lightning war, such as - I use a sad term - the blitzkrieg. He probably thought that, as in Crimea, we would find ourselves faced with the accomplished fact and then the reactions would be more disordered and less convinced. It has not been so and this error allows us, fortunately, to think of how concretely to react: with solidarity - I said it a moment ago - without if and without but, and also with concrete aid for the needs of material survival, but also military aid with defensive weapons that even yesterday, in the encounter I had with the Ukrainian consul of Lombardy, we were asked, starting from the bulletproof vests and helmets, extremely defensive elements, which - they tell us - are the most urgent that Ukraine needs. Concrete aid, of course, but also sanctions. For once, Biden, who has some responsibility - if only for encouraging, with the shameful retreat in Afghanistan, terrible actions like this [[Applause]] - he said the right thing: sanctions are necessary because the alternative would be World War III. We must be prepared to adopt sanctions, which will also be a damage to us, our families and our nation, knowing that the government - we give it a mandate - will ensure that they are always fair and will not fall on one nation more than on another. We also need to help Ukraine with different reception rules and not to change immigration policy, which should be changed in the opposite direction. In this case, in the face of a real war and real reasons for a European people to flee from that terrible situation, we call for all the necessary measures to be taken to abolish the bureaucratic mechanisms that could slow the arrival of those who want to come here to shelter themselves from the war and to work welcomed by friends. [[Applause]] There is no doubt that the consequences of this act will not only be political and diplomatic and will put us before a reality that we had removed, but will also be economic and geopolitical. You have already been reminded - and I am grateful to you, Mr Draghi - of the absence of a national energy plan. This is not the time to say've' we said've', nor to claim anything in front of those who, given the need for a national energy plan, always felt that it was a question of freedom and independence. I am glad that - at last - it becomes a common feeling, but we need to move on from words to deeds. In fact, there is no freedom and independence without energy independence. Having abdicated our energy independence and put our needs in the hands of others (no matter whether Putin or anyone else) is something that needs to be rethought immediately, even by reopening the debate on nuclear power. I remember that the French nuclear power stations are on the border with our country and we would therefore suffer the possible negative consequences, but never enjoy the positive ones. [[Applause]] I do not give the solution, but I say that the matter needs to be re-examined. I raise this issue, which has been ignored (I imagine deliberately) in the first part of the debate, although I do not have the sure answer. As I said, it is about our freedom and there will be repercussions in Italy, but also in Europe. I have heard, for the first time in a convincing way, of common defense. Again, I do not want to make demands on those who have always believed that thought should go to a confederated Europe with its firm point in defence, international diplomatic policy and the defence of common energies, rather than looking - perhaps - at the colours for food that have penalized Italy too many times. [[Applause]] This is the Europe we expect and want. We want to move towards a European confederation that can defend the values of freedom, democracy and independence of the peoples united by a common feeling and a history that has united them for good and evil. In announcing the vote in favour of the joint motion that we have contributed to writing, I say that nothing, like the difficulties, crises and tragedies, can have as a side effect the strengthening of the common roots, the awakening of the values that are sowed that make a people a nation and that unite the nations daughters of the same values, historical and religious. I believe that this awareness must guide us in the tragedy of Russian aggression, making us say to one voice that we are all Ukrainians today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u46	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have in front of us dramatic images that we would no longer have liked to see again in Europe; hundreds of people crowded at the train station with their whole life transported in suitcases, disemboweled palaces, endless rows of cars at the borders, tears of the fathers who greet the children and tears of the children who cling to the fathers, wounded, civilian deaths, rows of tanks at the gates of the city. When we talk about attacking the heart of Europe, we do not just give a geographical connotation. A war waged by a sovereign state, Russia, within another sovereign state breaks international law and wants to deny the Ukrainian people that they can choose their own destiny. [[Applause]] It is an attack on the heart of Europe and not only on Ukraine. It is in fact an attack on the values on which Europe is based and in which the West recognizes itself: democracy of rights and institutions, respect for freedom against abuse and the power of force. Why does Putin choose to attack right now? Ukraine's approach to NATO is in 2008. Then, as Senator Casini also recalled, in 2002 Moscow joined the NATO-Russia Council, in 2009 Obama was received by Putin in a very positive climate. The theme of Russian security seems to be a flag that gets agitated when it suits. It was not placed when the Baltic Republics, Poland and Hungary entered NATO. We also remember, and we go back to 2014, the reasons for that crisis; the tensions were due to the prevailing Ukrainian will to move forward towards Europe. The pro-Russian president Janukovyč wanted to stop it. Hence the Orange Revolution of Majdan Nezaležnosti and the consequent force action of Russia with the occupation of Crimea. In 2014, therefore, it was not a question of security, but of a confrontation on Europe, on the rights and values of the West. In that context, let us remember, NATO's reassurance measures towards the countries of the East, the Baltic Republics, Poland and Romania; for Italy a contingent of just over 200 soldiers in Latvia, authorized by Parliament, but which had then caused many distinctions from different political forces. I remember it because it is always useful to remember and today's unity is very positive, but then consistency must be maintained even when events are not so emotionally significant. The question that hovered then, as sometimes in some of the distinctions I hear today, was the following: why make initiatives with an anti-Russian flavor, a choice that will go against Italian interests? Colleagues, NATO is not just a military alliance, it is an alliance based on the defence of liberal democracies and the values of the West, and we must remember this every time. [[Applause]] The common values are the cement of our alliance and this is the motivation for our strong adherence. We thank Minister Guerini, the armed forces that are already doing a lot and now have been put in further readiness; 1,400 military, with the strengthening of air defence in Romania. You have our full support and thank you for the whole Parliament and the Democratic Party. [[Applause]] Let's go back to the question: why is Putin raising the level of conflict right now? I have heard him loudly in the words of President Draghi: we are facing a confrontation between democracy and autarchy and it is a conflict that will probably mark the new era that we are living. We cannot tolerate a war of aggression, as President Draghi said, and I stress that, because that would put the security of peace in Europe at risk. Putin imagined that at this moment the West was more fragile and disoriented, given the withdrawal of NATO from Afghanistan, the approaching midterm elections in the United States, the divisions between European countries, but fortunately he was wrong. The West has responded in a united, firm and timely manner; the United States has done so, immediately coordinating with the allies, NATO has done so and Europe has done so. There has been compactness in the firmness of the answers, in the harsh sanctions and in the deterrent measures adopted by NATO and let us remember that the strengthening of the deterrent does not increase the tensions, but serves to stop the conflicts. Russia underestimated the Ukrainian resistance, the choral determination of a people who do not want to see their freedom suppressed; we bow to their courage and take advantage of this moment also to thank - you did - Ambassador Zazo who remained in Ukraine, who is doing a really great job as a state servant for our community in Ukraine. [[Applause]] We thank those who are demonstrating throughout Europe and especially those who are doing so in Russia at the risk of their freedom, with a truly admirable courage. Putin miscalculated that interests would weaken the unanimous drive towards values. So the measures taken by NATO and Europe, and I must say that the determination and speed with which Europe has made these choices, has really amazed me. I have been positively impressed by this important momentum that Europe has had; after what has been done with Covid and the Next generation EU, this is another very important step. Europe decides, ladies and gentlemen, to help the Ukrainian people so that they can defend themselves, and that is why we, too, are perfectly within Article 11 of our Constitution today. We are deciding to help a people defend themselves so that their freedom is not overwhelmed. [[Applause]] So, well that Italy, our country, plays its part and has adhered to every common decision, even those that can cost you the most, because freedom has a cost and supporting values has a cost. It was an excellent job that the Government as a whole, Minister Di Maio and Minister Guerini, who sits in the Assembly of NATO as the authoritative Minister of an authoritative country. The Democratic Party has supported the government's decisions from the outset and will continue to do so without ambiguity and stop and go. We shall vote with conviction on the resolution which all parties have signed. We look carefully at the events and we hope that the open diplomatic channel will silence the weapons, but the weapons continue to resound and the Russian nuclear device has been alerted. As I have already said, Italy is playing its part, but in this confrontation between democracy and autocracy, which will be straight for the profile that will assume our time, it must play all its authority. You, Mr President, after the sad page of your withdrawal from Afghanistan, have spoken loudly about the need for European defence and have done so today. Putin played this whole game as if Europe didn't exist, with the will to rise up as a global leader; for example, he wrote to the United States and NATO, snubbing Europe. I can also think of what Russia called David Sassoli: a person who is not welcome. And he replied that he was not surprised and that he would never stop defending human rights, freedoms and democracy. [[Applause]] We have to answer. strengthen us. The European directive on the protection of Ukrainian refugees is good: that it is a path of solidarity and that it becomes a lasting solution [[Applause]] ; a common energy plan is fine; but there is no doubt that a common defence and a complementary defence to NATO are a fundamental identity part, because Europe, which is the homeland of law and freedom, which built on the unspeakable suffering of two world wars its identity profile, needs this pillar to make its voice heard in the world. This, in my opinion, is today to deal with our history and give answers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u49	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr Draghi, we confirm, as we said and did last Friday, the support of the LEU-Ecosolidal Group for the initiatives taken by the Government and Europe. Let us be clear about our judgment: there are no reasons, as some colleagues have already said, for neither historical nor political reasons, nor for the security that can justify the Russian invasion. It is a dramatic mistake by Putin; it is a criminal act, first of all, against civilians, children, women and the Ukrainian people, to whom our solidarity goes; it undermines a fundamental principle, the self-determination of peoples, of a country. In fact, Mr President, we know that this principle, which I support as a decisive point, has not always been respected, even in other cases. However, it is time to take note that we are faced with a dramatic situation in the world, which required and requires a firm and solid initiative from Italy and Europe. That is why we share the choices of economic sanctions, the choice of aid to the Ukrainian people. The sending of military means, which is a difficult choice - we must stress this - that we do not do and cannot do lightly, has a character that can only be extraordinary and is part of a united strategy of Europe that Putin, as a fundamental objective, wanted to question. It is time for unity here in Italy, as in Europe. This is how our government moved and how Europe moved, as you rightly pointed out, Mr Draghi. In the face of this firmness, however, which we share, because the situation is truly dramatic, at the same time we can never give up. Mr President, the time of diplomatic relations, of the initiatives of the various individual countries for peace is now, not tomorrow, but now. [[Applause]] Precisely because we are so committed and consistent, the first objective must be the ceasefire and build a de-escalation of the situation. Let me be frank, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I really feel a significant discomfort when, in understanding the difficult situation, I feel a shift towards commonplaces and rhetoric about the war of civilizations. How much damage did the civil war do? Do we want to remember Afghanistan? There are moments, in history, in which we must put intelligence and balance even for those who do not have it, as Putin's initiative is demonstrating. We must also be intelligent about an irresponsible and very serious attitude such as President Putin is having. This is not weakness, but wisdom. All of us, rightly, emphasise the identity of Europe, democracy, freedom and solidarity, but we must remember that the other founding point of Europe is and remains to ensure that the tragedies of the twentieth century are no longer repeated, that war is no longer repeated. [[Applause]] This for me, for us, is the fundamental role of Europe. We therefore share the immediate responses, which are fundamental and very important, but we also need to address the consequences of what is happening, starting with humanitarian ones, of refugees. In this regard, let me just make one point: all the refugees, even the Ukrainian women who are demonstrating in Italy at our side, often do not have a residence permit. [[Applause]] Let us remember this, to be consistent, because, if we want to be credible in the eyes of the world, we must have consistency and not just make declamations. The second point is the economic one. A new Stability Pact is needed. We cannot fail to see the dramatic situation and the weight it will have on the economy. I absolutely agree, Mr President, that we must not put business in the face of interests and values. I am very pleased to hear these statements. We must then ask Europe to take a step further with regard to solidarity for those countries such as ours who pay a very high price and open up a new energy policy. However, ladies and gentlemen - I thank President Draghi for having said this and stressed it forcefully - we certainly cannot go back on the ecological transition; we certainly cannot put aside the climate crisis that is destroying the world. [[Applause]] Finally, there is the strategic aspect. I agree with my colleagues who have said that Europe has taken important decisions driven by crises, but now, as the Ukrainian issue also shows, the issue of an autonomous European foreign and defence policy is no longer a matter of delay, and so we must take initiatives, and we need a long thought. The world is not due to a bipolar dimension, nor to a unipolar dimension. The reading of the twentieth century has produced so much damage and continues to produce it, this is not the time - because it could sound incorrect - of reflections also on our mistakes. However, we must learn from our mistakes. We must think, President, of a new idea of security, far from the areas of influence of Russian imperialism and far from the so-called Monroe doctrine, according to which countries could be invaded if they did not meet the needs. Do we remember her? Memory is important. A new idea of security is needed: this is Europe's role. Faced with this situation, Europe's role is to build a modern and new idea of security, not only for us, but for everyone, also for Russia. From this point of view, after all, it is what the Holy Father asks us, it is what hundreds of thousands of people are asking us to move around the world, it is what the Russian people, who are demonstrating at the risk of serious persecution, are asking us to do. We must be builders of peace; it is time for a new speech from Europe and, in my opinion, it will be a great service that we will be able to give to humanity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u52	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take directly from my colleague Errani the witness of the construction of freedom and peace. We have all witnessed Pope Francis' Angelus on Sunday, who said words that each of us feels deeply within ourselves: we have the heart torn by the images that so many of us have evoked in this Chamber, images of guerrilla door-to-door images and of a people ensnared in bunkers, metropolitans or shelters, as in the most atrocious moments of the last century. We saw people fleeing, because with the bombings they were losing everything, rows and rows - President Pinotti recalled - of people trying to get out of Ukraine; but also people who remain, broken families, men who remain to fight or who return to fight and women who give to other women their children to save them (and also animals). Here, this is war and, like all wars, it is atrocious and senseless; it is a massacre between people who do not know each other, made on behalf of people who know each other and do not massacre themselves (as Paul Valéry says). [[Applause]] We must turn off: we have all said so, but the choice must be made and it is not a choice of equanimity, third-party or non-participating observation. Even the very neutral Switzerland has decided to take the field and to adhere to the sanctions and restrictive measures that we have decided to prepare to put out the fire of this war. We have all said that, but it is important that each of us should be very aware of how close this war is, a fire that is burning in the heart of Europe, very close to us. You rightly said, Mr President, that defending the Ukrainian people from this invasion is like defending all of us, our homes, our homeland, our Europe, our West, our world. We cannot remain indifferent or pretend to look elsewhere [[Applause]] At the time when all the patterns of democracy are broken, all fundamental freedoms are violated. We are talking about international law - as we said last week - and the violation of an elementary principle of self-determination of peoples. This is war and war must be fought to be extinguished by all means. [[Applause]] We must stop the war in order to defend peace, and we must do so with every instrument, every method, every possible weapon: political, financial, economic and military support. We are here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You asked for our support and we give it to you, as we have given it to you so far. [[Applause]] We have appreciated the temperance of your intervention in this affair, which calls to the responsibility of all. Colleagues, it is true that we are not responsible for the situation we are in, but we would become responsible if we did not do something to change it and that is what we are doing. [[Applause]] At first, the President-in-Office of the Council observed what was happening carefully, I would say cautious, and then more determined as the violent military escalation progressed, which is, however, producing paradoxical effects. We have been forced into sanctions and we know very well how restrictive measures are a double-edged weapon. Those who suffer them suffer, as happened to Russia, who are experiencing financial isolation with the collapse of the rouble, the closure of the Home Exchange, rows of people at ATMs trying to take cash. It is not something that pleases us or satisfies us. Instead, we are interested in the first crack, the first crack in that asset of oligarchs that seem to begin to invoke peace. That's interesting. We know very well that sanctions have an impact on us too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we were very pleased to hear you say that, given that the sanctions have been shared by the European club of the Member States, Europe will take care of us when we need them. [[Applause]] and when, in the face of unfortunately necessary problems, caused by an Italian situation that has been weakened by two years of pandemic crisis, we may find ourselves in difficulty. Well, we will have to put this problem in a European framework that will have to be as united as ever. [[Applause]] We will have to be able to make structural what the Covid crisis has done with Europe; we will have to make sure that European solidarity is transformed into something stable, the generosity that Europe has had from stepmother to nurse. We will have to extend and extend the suspension time of the Stability Pact. [[Applause]] I am thinking of the recovery plan, that is, the mutualisation of future debt, which has transformed Europe into a true enclave of people who cooperate, cooperate and help each other in times of difficulty, in something that can intervene not only exceptionally, but when crises or tragedies, as in this case, make it necessary. We need to be supported, this is a fundamental fact for those who like us are launching very generously in an international situation that we currently see only the horizon, but not the end. It is on this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we give you our confidence. That is what we are telling you that, probably in this dark scenario, at this very dark moment in our Europe, something has happened that has led to a paradoxical effect on the intentions of the invader. We've grown stronger. [[Applause]] The West has found reasons for welding and cohesion that were not taken for granted and Europe has the opportunity to become stronger. In this connection, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the conclusion, allow me to make a small personal party note. We and our President Berlusconi have been asking not only for a relaxation with as broad a geopolitical context as possible, that does not give anyone to the influence of China. [[Applause]] , but above all a Europe with a common foreign and defence policy and a common foreign and defence policy, with a common army and a common energy policy. [[Applause]] You, President, spoke of sharing purchases, of common stocks: very well; we hope for a single energy market, which is able to give our country what, unfortunately, is not able to have, because we have abandoned many of our productive and mining opportunities (guilty, I stress, but that, President, you have already said so). Mr President, we believe in what we are doing and in the choice we are making, which is a profound choice, it is a choice of freedom, it is a choice of civilization and it is a courageous choice, which begins here and which we, President Berlusconi and the entire Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC, are committed to supporting. As we have already demonstrated so many times in our political history, when it is necessary to be responsible, Forza Italia is there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u55	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I hope I do not use all ten minutes, because war is such a great issue that it does not allow political divisions or polemics. It is frustrating to realize that, even in the face of the greatest tragedy that man is witnessing at the moment, there are some small journalists or some small parliamentarians who manage to throw it into internal political controversy. Let us prove ourselves men and women: let us stop the war; let us divide ourselves again later, but let us be able to argue even at a serious moment such as this does not honour this Parliament and the Italian political and journalistic class. I think we need to give a good signal. Congratulations, President Draghi, you have our full mandate. A single reflection: it is always the time of diplomacy. There is no time for dialogue. Today, yesterday and tomorrow is the time of diplomacy, because unfortunately history teaches that if you respond to bombs with bombs you never know where you go. It's always the time of diplomacy. [[Applause]] To each of our actions corresponds a reaction, evidently; this does not mean that we must be afraid to do something in anticipation of the counter-reaction. However, our every gesture must have one question upstream: what am I doing, what am I approving today in Parliament, in the region, at school, at university or at the factory brings peace closer or away? So before I make any choice or any statement, I have to ask myself, beyond the political colors of the right and left, whether what I am doing and saying approaches or turns away the peace and the end of the conflict. If on the one hand they raise their voices, we must be firm, because in this case there is clearly an attacker and there is an attacker and war, missiles and bombs never have a justification. We have a duty to be with the attackers, of course defending them and sanctioning the aggressors and possibly those who have triggered this attack (the politicians, the oligarchs and the hierarchs) and not the poor people. [[Applause]] We cannot blame the poor people anywhere in the world, neither in Italy nor on the other side of the world. We must therefore work for peace, on the path indicated by the Holy Father, who for tomorrow has called for a day of fasting and prayer. Someone laughs: it's not funny. This is a fact that concerns those who believe, but sometimes the weapons of man and diplomacy are not enough, so those who manage to laugh even in dramatic moments such as these shows its littleness. There are women and children on the run. I thank the mayors and governors of all political colors, the Red Cross, UNICEF, the Community of Sant'Egidio, the Community Pope John XXIII and the hearts of the Italians, who are donating millions of euros of their pockets at this time of economic difficulty. President Draghi, when there is a war to stop, of course economic matters go into the background. Will Italy be charged with these sanctions? Yes. We are the country with the most exposed banks vis-à-vis Russian banks and Russia's most dependent on gas and oil. Does this mean that we must be afraid to intervene? No, because peace is always worth it, but let us commit today. The government and Parliament, as they did for the pandemic, must bring out cash to help those families and businesses that rightly sacrifice themselves and sacrifice themselves to stop the war. [[Applause]] We do not come here to talk about austerity, the Stability Pact and budgetary constraints, when the priority is peace and stop the bombs and missiles. I found that talking about peace for someone is a problem, because you're pro-Tizio, you're equidistant. I'm not interested in going to look at the photogallery that over the years rightly men in the government have done with other men in the government: I'm not interested in flagging photos with Putin of Renzi, Letta, Prodi and anyone else. Government men have to reason with other government men, but the war allows to put a firm point between what was before and what is after. Whoever triggers a war is always wrong, without if and without but. [[Applause]] Surely there is someone who, I repeat, tries to throw her in the bag. We had to come before this war to realize that we have to look to the future. Let me give you an example: there is March 8 at the door. Does the West have a clean conscience? No. I think on 8 March I will accept the invitation of the Afghanistan Embassy, because the West has left hundreds of thousands of weapons and ammunition on the basis of Islamic and Taliban terrorists and today, while we are rightly here to defend with our bodies, with our heads and hearts the children and women fleeing from Ukraine, we have abandoned women in the hands of the Taliban who count less than zero, but there are no women who are worth more and women who are worth less. [[Applause]] It is not a matter of putting an A at the bottom of the name and changing the noun or adjective; here freedom and peace must be defended everywhere. Someone has made a mistake, because obviously, if the West abdicates to its role and to its battle for democracy, life and freedom, then it takes advantage of those who use force as a weapon of political mediation. Today I sent a message to the so often and gladly reproached - even in this House - attacked and sanctioned Premier of Poland and Hungary, who now have on their shoulders the vast part of the sacred welcome of those who run away from that war. I sent them a message, thanking them for the great effort of humanitarian reception they are making. [[Applause]] Italy will have the doors wide open for women and children who are real refugees fleeing from a real war, quite different from other types of arrivals that war brings to Italy. [[Applause]] This must be quite clear, so as not to wrong those orphans, those mothers and widows. There is a real war there and the homes of Italians are open: there are 230,000 citizens with Ukrainian passports who have all our support, because it is a perfectly integrated, laborious, culturally and morally close to us, so our homes, our families, our schools and our hospitals are absolutely at their disposal. I hope that in Brussels they realize that we do not have problems at home, but around the world, so they would stop looking at each other like a dog among their brothers and sisters, among their friends. I hope this serves as a lesson. He said everything about energy, President: no, we depend on others; we have given our keys to others. I am terrified, when I hear the nuclear applied to the war, but this serves us as a lesson: the clean and safe nuclear that heats schools, kindergartens and hospitals is also fundamental for Italy. [[Applause]] We cannot be the only European country that, by blind ideology, says no to a form of safe energy, which is used by all the other great countries of the world. Too bad a war had to come to this. That Europe too should then change priorities, budgetary constraints, austerity, cuts and stability pacts. Of course, then Parliament will speak in the next hours of reform of the land register, of end-of-life; I wonder if it is not worth trying to stop a war, twenty-four hours in twenty-four, until there is a cease-fire, to put us physically, morally and politically at the disposal of the world's greatest and most beautiful instrument, which is peace. I'm glad there's a unitary document. I thank the Italians who are demonstrating, as always, a great heart. We work for peace without truce, without stops, without divisions. It's amazing how there are sobbing battles. We help the Italians to believe in peace. Italian moms, Ukrainian moms and Russian moms don't want war. Be careful not to raise your tones, because then you just have to press a button to find yourself in a planetary conflict. Dialogue, listening, confrontation and peace; we do not play war, because in human history it has never brought anything good. [[Applause]] Thank you and live the peace, first of all and above all! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u58	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, President Draghi, Ministers, colleagues, today is a dark day, which we would never have wanted to live. It is a day of sorrow for me, for my Group, for this Parliament and, I imagine, for the country, because, after the two most difficult years ever - we are almost at the date when, two years ago, the first lockdown started - we are discussing how to intervene in this war at the gates of the European Union, which strikes you in the heart. The repudiation of war as an instrument of dispute resolution, as enshrined in Article 11 of our Constitution, is the polar star that has always guided the political action of the 5 Star Movement. That is why we have always supported the path of dialogue and diplomacy, but in the face of the unacceptable Russian decision to forcefully impose its reasons by invading a sovereign state, trampling the freedom and life of Ukrainian citizens, as well as international legality, we, President, certainly recognize the right of the Ukrainian people to defend themselves, or to exercise that right enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. That is why we continue to think that the best way to help the Ukrainian people at this time is to work all the time to reconnect the dialogue with the aim of reaching a humanitarian truce as soon as possible, which is the first step towards the ceasefire and the subsequent start of a negotiation process: it is certainly not an easy way to go, but a necessary one. Only in this way can further suffering be spared from the Ukrainian people, and only in this way can an even more terrible and devastating war scene be avoided for all. A humanitarian truce is needed to bring help to hospitals, open humanitarian corridors and rescue the many refugees, including our fellow countrymen who have been stuck for days in homes, bunkers and shelters. Among these compatriots there are many families, stuck there with children and newborns, because they were completing the adoption procedures. The 5 Star Movement considers it desirable that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), an international body of which both Ukraine and Russia are members, participate actively and with a central role in this European diplomatic initiative. It may seem paradoxical, but this is more than ever the time to work to build the conditions that lead to peace. Yesterday's talks in Belarus finally give a glimpse, after days of distress and total closure, of a window and a possibility of dialogue that give everyone the hope of getting out of this nightmare. We are sure that the European Union will work decisively to ensure that this window becomes a breach in that wall against the wall that has so far opposed the two fronts. We ask you, Mr Draghi, to continue to engage firsthand in all international fora - European and not only - in order to promote an agreement that immediately silences arms and removes the unthinkable spectre of a world war or nuclear war. In addition to the diplomatic commitment to peace, the economic and financial support that Italy is giving to the Ukrainian people for humanitarian purposes and for the economic stabilisation of the country is essential. The exceptional measures put in place for the reception in our country of the hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing the war, in order to speed up international protection practices and regularize the many Ukrainian workers who will thus be able to host their families in Italy. The Movimento 5 Star, with its mayors and its municipal and regional councillors, is committed at the forefront to act as a means and coordinate the many initiatives of volunteering and reception that have started spontaneously in our country. As we have often heard in this House this morning, this political and humanitarian crisis will follow - and we are already seeing it - an energy crisis. It is precisely in order to cover the economic and energy repercussions of this conflict and the new necessary sanctions decided by the European Union that we have been saying for days that no country will be able to deal with it alone. If in this pandemic Europe has finally become a Europe of peoples and not only monetary and a Europe that has been able to put at the centre the protection of common goods, health, work and the environment and that for the first time used a shared debt instrument such as the recovery fund, then this is also the Europe that faces this umpteenth crisis. The 5 Star Movement is convinced that a common European approach is needed. For this reason he proposed the use of a recovery energy fund, that is a common investment mechanism similar to the recovery fund, but declined in an energy key, that can guarantee the energy autonomy of Europe and support to the countries that will suffer most from this crisis. With the mission of Minister Di Maio to Algiers, Italy has already mobilized, on behalf of Europe, to diversify the sources of gas supply not only for our country, but for the whole of the European Union. However, we must protect citizens and businesses by looking to the future, by focusing on renewable energy and ecological transition and by avoiding taking steps backwards by using polluting fossil fuels. He has done well, Mr Draghi, to reiterate in his speech this line and the need for Europe to move politically and diplomaticly with one voice. With one voice, we must work for peace incessantly. War is a defeat for everyone. "Show it to Putin, show the eyes of this little girl and the doctors crying": this shouted yesterday a Ukrainian doctor to a video reporter who took the lifeless body of a six-year-old girl killed by bombing while she was at the supermarket. At least 102 civilians have been killed so far, including 7 children, but there are certainly many more. Looks like a kindergarten was hit, too. Mr President, today, once again, the 5 Star Movement will support with responsibility the Government and will vote in favour of the joint resolution, even if, in order to take up the words of Pope Francis, with great pain in the heart. We shall vote on the resolution because we believe, as you said, that today is the time to deal with history and in this epochal passage peace must be defended with the paths that the Government has indicated to us and that in the joint resolution this Parliament has been able to unanimously identify. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u61	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, instead of considering the demands of all the conflicting parties, discussing them and sending peacemakers, you today decide to send missiles, bombs and other instruments of death to one of the warring parties. Do you understand that this is an act of war? [[Applause]] Do you understand that in doing so you accept that the conflict is even more serious and that nuclear escalation is also taking place? You understand that, but you have chosen to obey the orders that are imposed on you, even if they are foolish and unholy. I will not follow you in this madness, because I am a free man and will vote against Resolution No 1 and in favour of Resolution No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u63	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u64	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, more political Europe and less NATO, humanitarian aid and corridors, ceasefire immediately, withdrawal of troops, negotiating table immediately, otherwise it will be the third world war. If you pretend that this is not, continuing to make improbable speeches of force and war, it is very serious. An act of truth would require all of us to admit that unfortunately, Mr President, there are no good against bad people here. There are bad and more bad, blind and biech interests and completely crazy men or, to put it better, with the words of a competent observer, a man with narcissistic personality disorder mixed with very dangerous paranoid disorder. The truth is that the world is in the hands of economic and financial interests, commercial power and military power, not in the hands of humanitarian rights and rights of those people under bombs, narrowed in the metropolitans, or in the hands of people. Arming - and arming civilians - instead of trying all the possible roads, and even the impossible ones, to put down weapons immediately, is to continue on the line of collective madness. The squares around the world only demand peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u66	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u67	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking in this House on behalf of the Italian Left first of all to strongly, unequivocally and without alibi condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine in blatant violation of international law, but also to express solidarity with the Ukrainian people, who are being bombed by a ferocious oligarch, who without remorse and pity even uses cluster bombs (Amnesty International has detected its use and configured violations of international law). We must all remember who we are: we are the Europe of democracy, solidarity and peace and peace is the opposite of war. There is no pacifism in a manner and I am sorry that the plazas with the flags of peace have been ridiculed, because peace has ceased, it is de-escalation and the bombs carry other bombs and other deaths. That is why in our resolution we asked the Government to engage in all the diplomatic negotiations that are still possible in order to have an immediate ceasefire. Our fear is that instead of carrying bombs on bombs it will not help de-escalation, but maybe it will make more deaths and make this war last longer. Because we are responsible and we would like to see a resolution voted unanimously by this Senate (because this is how peace is built, listening to different ideas), I take advantage of it to request the vote for separate parts of the majority resolution, voting separately on the third commitment to the Government, which contains within it the transfer of military equipment and instruments that allow Ukraine to exercise the right to self-defense (so from the words "to ensure support" up to "population"). I too am observing the tragedy of Ukraine and I was very impressed by a crying Ukrainian mother, who said: My son will soon turn 18. I don't want him to go to war, I want him to go to work and live his life as a young boy in a free nation. We don't want to send these kids to war, but we want dialogue. I therefore ask the Presidency, very quietly, to allow us to vote on the part of the resolution which does not contain the disposal of arms, excluding the third paragraph, and to allow those who, by conscientious objection, cannot allow the war to vote on the majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u70	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, Germany is back to arm itself, because nothing will be the same as before. After the white weapons of austerity, in Berlin they must have thought that perhaps it is time to invest again in armaments, well above that ceiling of 2% of GDP used so far as a limit. The European Union - the Union that was to guarantee us peace, the Union that does not have a defence policy, nor a foreign policy, but has a single currency - spends 450 million on arms, because Europe is hit by crises. And at times of crisis perhaps Ukraine is immediately annexed with a statement that is a bomb on negotiations, except then reconsider, but not enough to stop the Ukrainian President in announcing their readiness. In short, a nice game of the parties to continue to tease the one who remains the attacker, because Putin has arbitrarily attacked, but against whom a dangerous game has been engaged for a long time, shored by provocations. In March 2021 Biden called Putin a killer, that Biden father of an investor in Ukraine of gas pipelines. Joe Biden was Obama's deputy in 2014, when the U.S. did not forgive Yanukovich for refusing to stop joining the European Union and therefore structured the presuppositions for a coup in Ukraine, erasing the pro-Russian communities that also exist in that area. Odessa's massacre in the trade union house by anti-Putin Ukrainian nationalist fanatics stirred an outrage: the 14,000 killed, between civilians and military, in the Donbass in seven years of conflict, but it is now time to arm themselves. Germany, the European Union and Italy, which will buy weapons to be delivered to the Ukrainian people: not bad as an idea of peace building. We have passed from being the first runner of the Silk Road with the Chinese to the usual water carriers in a NATO on whose function we should open a mature and loyal debate, because this does not make sense. This government proposes yet another state of emergency to continue on the ridge of a ganghered presidentialism and without parliamentary control. This government closed its eyes to Article 32 of the Constitution, creating more damage, pain and division of the same pandemic. Do not tragically repeat this error, closing your eyes to Article 11, and resume our vocation of international mediation, which has made the Italian people a people of brotherhood and friendship. No to the state of emergency, no to any armed intervention, no to the purchase of weapons, no to sanctions; yes to a real negotiation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u72	On what, Senator Calderoli? Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with regard to the proposal made by the senator for a split vote, we announce our opposition in the event of... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But it is not the subject of discussion. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). It takes one for and one against. I'm against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, in accordance with Rule 102 (5), the split vote is not the subject of a debate, but only of a vote. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I wanted to express my opposition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It cannot be done, because it is not the subject of debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u75	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to ask for a separate vote, but my colleague has already done so, and I shall therefore give up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, you only ask for the same... CRUCIOLI (Mist). Same. Only to extrapolate the part concerning the sale of arms.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u76	Pursuant to Rule 102 (5), I shall put to the vote the motion for a separate vote in resolution No 1. It's not approved. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Casini, Faraone, Ciriani, Malpezzi, De Petris, Bernini, Romeo and Castellone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Nugnes and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Crucioli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Fattori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senator Paragone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u79	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in thanking the House for the united sentiment expressed, I would like to point out to the House that the President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Emigration from the Senate, voted against the resolution of the Government: it is a shameful thing, in a majority, albeit composed. We must be indignant.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-410.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, March 2, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.56 p.m.
