ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2588, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the President of the Commission, Senator Girotto, to report on the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u5	Mr President, at yesterday's meeting of the 10th and 13th Commissions, after the introductory report, it was decided to convene a Bureau of the two Committees for the Planning of Work. During the Bureau, no unanimous agreement could be reached between the parliamentary groups on the further organisation of the work of the Commissions. In particular, two different positions emerged in the Bureau. Part of the parliamentary groups voted in favour of taking note of the absence of the necessary conditions for the continuation of the examination, in view of the imminent expiry of the decree-law in title in the coming days, of the impossibility in fact of a third reading of the relevant bill of conversion by the Chamber of Deputies and, finally, of its already planned timetable for the sitting of today's Assembly. This would have meant keeping the timetable in the Chamber firm, bringing the bill without rapporteurs. Another part of the parliamentary groups, also due to the fact that the Government has not indicated specific reasons for urgency in relation to individual provisions or measures brought by the decree-laws in title, has instead pronounced itself in favour of a request for modification of the timetable already planned, in order to allow a further space, albeit short, for the examination of the provision, assuming a port in the Assembly of the bill of conversion at the beginning of next week, presumably Tuesday 26 April. In the absence of agreement in the Bureau, the final decision was then put back to the full number of the Commissions. The proposal to take note that there were no conditions for the continuation of the examination was therefore approved by the Commissions and, therefore, the examination in the contact person was not concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Girotto's report, the draft law No 2588, since the examination has not been completed in the Commissions meeting, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u7	Mr President, representative of the Government, the first generation of an amphibian society sits here. Each of us was born into a society based on two pillars: the rationality imposed by the Enlightenment and an idea of equality understood as the cancellation of privileges and, above all, as equality before the law. Today the generation that has lived that history is immersed in a different society, so much so that some imagine that the term society is inadequate to trace the line of the triumph of the postmodern. In fact, in the postmodern world, values that are unknown in fact to the society that preceded this season are dominated by neoliberalism in economics, dominating sovereignism in politics and dominating, above all, individualism in large and small communities. The domination of the immaterial in labour and money, which generates greater inequalities and less collective prosperity, is the child of this threefold condition: managers, almost never the leaders who risk, prevail. More and more people speculate by betting on the future trend of the price of that precise product, both wheat, gas, and oil, and, insofar as financial operators and companies bet that the price rises due to conflicts, famines or other variables, the price of that product rises. For Catholics it is a mortal sin. As the Bible says, time cannot be mortgaged, for the future is not in our readiness. For those who profess other faiths the title of speculator is sufficient, all the worse if speculation happens when the cake of wealth is not enlarged. Mr President, I am not drawing up a philosophical canon; I am talking exactly about the situation that the Government has dealt with by the act on which we are debating and on which it is likely to put the vote of confidence today. That is, we are talking not only about the price of a fundamental asset, but about the triumph of immaterial. That is the reason for what I am saying, precisely because it is the rising bet that determines the price of gas and oil and the bet has only one name and must be called as those who would call it the most basic language possible: it is called financial speculation. I am glad that the government has dealt with this issue with an unusual determination. Having done so is definitely a merit, which I expect can be further carried forward, as the problem will remain with its stability in the coming seasons, addressing it in a "structural" way. But the issue we are discussing is not just the canon of immateriality: it is also a matter of foreign policy. Today it is to be hoped that a season of bizarre amateurs in the foreign policy of those who led the country in the previous seasons will close: winks in the most unusual places, results (from that wink) not absolutely unpredictable. The work that the Dragon Government is doing to free itself from Russia's almost exclusive dependence on energy supply, I imagine, is the right path and must be pursued as such. Turning to the points raised by the measure, together with my Group, I am among those who have long supported this argument, also invoking the anti-speculation rule, and I thank President Casellati and the Presidents of the Groups for having had a special session to discuss this issue just a few weeks ago. Indeed, the anti-speculation rule is very positive in order to reduce the impact of market prices and therefore in and on the bills; to disengage, as is expected, the price of gas from the Dutch Title transfer facility (TTF), in order to anchor it to the real contracts, is the road that must be beaten with the decision that the measure under consideration previews. If we wanted to do something more just, that is to say to raise, as some of the amendments tabled by those who speak to us, from 10% to 50% the extra profit tax, I think that would also be the right way to go. It is equally positive to equip the Energy Regulatory Authority for Networks and Environment (ARERA) with new powers; since the measure speaks of a report to be delivered to the Commissions, I would add to predict that on an annual basis it refers to the Chambers on the verification and sanctioning activity and on the detection of extraprofits. I would add that the new powers conferred on ARERA would not have put in condition the same, even in the absence of these powers, to exercise its role and function with a voice of much other tonality even before this measure saw the light. Then there is the proposal to keep the market protected until the free market functions transparently and efficiently: too many sellers ring the bells of grandmothers and grandparents without any criteria, with absolutely devastating effects. We must also press for the European Union to have legislation that will make contracts transparent and then extend the reduction of excise duties on fuels. The final result, Mr President, Government, is more political and less brazen and omnivorous finance; yes, it must be shouted: more politics. In a few days, on April 25, in the squares of Italy Italy will meet, I imagine whole, and will explode in a single applause in the name of liberation, Constitution and, probably, also in the name and on behalf of the Europe that we have built, which pioneers, popular above all, have built in the 'forties and 'fifties. However, there is one thing, Mr President: if, as the institutions investigating the matter say, in February 15% of families and small businesses had to sit at the dinner table to decide whether to pay the energy bill or rent, the size of the problem is so large that it cannot be kept silent. It is so vast that the practical application of Articles 3 and 38 of the Italian Constitution, Articles 19, 145, 150, 151 and 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - and I address the Government - must become the mother of every priority. I know for a fact, having experienced this country, that societies based on unjustified injustices are excellent laboratories for autocrats. In short, we cannot celebrate April 25 by forgetting a piece of the history of Italy that we have already experienced, if we do not put a steady hand in the story that this whole measure tells us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u9	Mr President, today we are voting on the so-called bill decree, which introduced a first package of measures to contain the extraordinary increase in electricity and natural gas costs. The phenomenon has generated a real emergency that is affecting everyone, families and businesses. The position of myself and of the Movimento 5 Stars can only be favourable, when it comes to measures to support citizens and the productive fabric. We were the first to ask the government to intervene with extraordinary measures, even using a new budgetary deviation. It is clear that the measures contained in the measure before us must be regarded as a necessary starting point, but certainly not sufficient; more must be done and done already when the so-called price-cutting decree is converted into law. As always, the contribution of the Movimento 5 Stars will not be lacking. However, we believe that in the face of such an extraordinary situation we need a strong and common response from Europe as well. In 2020, when we found ourselves facing an invisible and then unknown enemy, President Conte managed to get over 200 billion euros through a debt-sharing instrument, the recovery plan. [[Applause]] This measure is still the largest opportunity to relaunch our country. Even today, we should show the same courage as we had in 2020 and ask Europe for a common European fund for energy transition. Among the most important changes made and marked Movimento 5 Stars, mention should be made of the establishment of the national strategy against energy poverty, an instrument through which it is facilitated the coordination of all interventions aimed at supporting families and more fragile subjects, with measures not only emerging, but also structural. Other important novelties concern the activities of the Regulatory Authority (ARERA), which now, for the purposes of the calculation system, will be able to free itself from the market cost and to refer to the real cost of supplying the raw material; it is a substantial modification, that could bring a saving in bill up to 40%. Another key intervention obtained only through the battle that we continue to carry out every day concerns the superbonus at 110% and in particular the introduction of the fourth transfer of credit and the extension to 15 October 2022 of the deadline within which the communication for the transfer of credit related to the work carried out in 2021 must be transmitted to the Revenue Agency, thus giving more time to companies and financial institutions to complete the procedures. In conclusion, with pragmatism, I can say that I am partly satisfied with the adoption of the reformulation of an amendment that I tabled at the first reading of the measure to the House, listening to the alarm cry of one of the sectors that has suffered most from the increase in gas costs. I am referring to ceramic companies, the excellence of Made in Italy and in particular of Emilia-Romagna, which, because of their high energy, risk being forced to take drastic decisions, reducing or even suspending their production, despite the fact that there are orders to escape. At stake are hundreds of companies, historic brands that bear the name of our country at the top of the world, but also thousands of jobs. In such a difficult context, we cannot in any way afford economic and employment repercussions. Therefore, I invite the Government to consider the measures in favour of the energy companies contained in the decree-law in question only as a first step, which requires immediate follow-up with extraordinary measures able to support the sector, as is done in Spain, because without an intervention it would suffer competition, failing to support market prices. These commitments, moreover, were put on a blank basis with our own agenda, which was accepted, with which the Government undertook to introduce further transitional measures to support the sector. I wouldn't want it to be worth it just on the agendas that talk about weapons. You can't stall anymore. Hurry up. We're here and we're gonna push you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u10	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u11	Mr President, the practice of monocameralism that has taken place does not help us to intervene on this measure, which is of enormous importance to our country. In the House they worked a lot, introducing several articles. I must say, however, that what has been possible to show, in the short time we have had available, is that we are proceeding by attempts and by small steps, even rather disarticulated, compared to a situation that could be experienced as an opportunity. We are connected to gas, which we do not own on our national territory, since the first decisions of the Monti Government (it was already in the national electricity strategy, SEN); and so it has become a fundamental subject in the energy transition, in the integrated national energy and climate plan (PNIEC) of 2020. Yet Europe told us that this choice was not in line with the objectives we had set for the climate and that therefore we should review our National Plan, but this was not an opportunity to put our hands on real planning either. We are proceeding - as we have said - for small commercials and regulations, while we are still giving large subsidies to companies which are energetic and do not take account of the real actions to be put in place. We're looking for gas around the world because ENI makes a lot of money out of gas. There are energy companies that have made 40 billion extra profits in these years, which we will charge at 10%, when they tell me that ARERA was assessing a tax of 40%. I believe that we do not want to be detached from dependence and not just from foreign supply. Let us now close our relations with Russia, even if we have not yet done so. Let us also remember that this speculation does not come from the war, but from the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, so it comes before the war: it already comes from November and December last year. Therefore it will not depend on how much gas we can find and pull out of our territories, because it is a cost that comes from globalization. However, let us look for other agreements with Albania and Egypt, including by putting ourselves in a state of great political distress. [[Applause]] , with countries still having political instability. This is because, as someone said in the House, we have a six-legged elephant in our room: it is not clear whether it is the State that participates in the ENI or whether it is the ENI that participates in the State. [[Applause.]] I mean, there's a huge conflict of interest that we can't get out of. At the moment we still give 7 billion environmentally harmful subsidies, but only 145 million for energy redevelopment, without the possibility of giving up the tax credit. There is therefore an imbalance between the actions that the Government carries out. We aim to get out of our territories those that have been valued at 45 billion cubic meters of gas residues, but this in ten years, since we can get out at most 4.5 billion per year. In ten years we will be able to extract 45 billion cubic meters, but we consume 75 cubic meters. Surely, with the reopening of these drillings with great happiness of all (and also the Movimento 5 Stars is accused of having stopped the drills, but it is not so), we will not solve anything and we will not even reduce the cost of the bills: this must be clear to everyone. Someone accused me of doing a mathematical evaluation, but unfortunately that is what needs to be done: even if we extract 7 billion from our territories, it will always be 10% of the total. What we should do is tie ourselves to the idea of having to abandon the gas, which is twenty times more climatic than other hydrocarbons. It certainly melts in the air, we can disperse it first, but the moment we disperse it has a very high climatic impact. But that is not enough, because we are going to liberalise, indeed to remove all the rules from other types of actions, such as the storage of gas, which has enormous difficulties. Or we are in conflict with agriculture, because we are making energy farmers. I wouldn't want us to get rid of the mouse from the house, and I wouldn't want us to have to face another mouse in order to solve a problem, in the hurry and in the non-programmatic action, and to realize in some time that we no longer have agricultural land. We should make a plan: this I ask, and yet... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u12	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this law deals with a number of urgent measures to limit the effects of price increases in the electricity and natural gas sectors. A number of structural energy measures are also being addressed, which respond to a more medium- and long-term logic, aimed at preventing other crises similar to the present from having the same effect on households and the national production system. In particular, the aim is to increase national production of renewable energy and efficiency. Having to depend historically, for this important sector, mostly on imported materials, it must be said that we are not new to face crises even important: we remember, among all, the oil crisis of the early 1970s. Even then the trigger factor was a war, one of the many and continuous that mark the history of the human gender. When we talk about energy, we have to look at Italy, at our nation, as a well-defined physical system. This system can also be defined in a very simple way: it is a balance, on a plate of which there are consumptions, in the various components, and on the other plate there are the necessary resources, also varied. Our industries, our homes and our means of transport, by land, by sea and by air, need energy, be it electric, by methane, by oil derivatives, for some residue still from coal, biogas, be it geothermal, hydroelectric, wind or photovoltaic. In the field of transport, shipping and air transport, we are accelerating all efforts to consume less and less oil and oil products. The process has certainly begun, but still today we are heavily dependent on foreign countries and this certainly compromises the balance of the balance I was talking about before. This balance today is further undermined by the war events affecting our continent, Europe. The consumption of petroleum products has been attested, in recent years, on an average of about 50 million tons per year, while the consumption of methane is about 70 billion cubic meters. The consumption of natural gas should then be divided into the thermoelectric sector, thus to produce electricity, and for direct use, for heat production, both in the industrial and domestic sectors. Here, I would like to talk about approximate values, because they are sufficient to support the reasoning that I want to explain and also the consequent reflections that I want to stimulate: these values certainly give us a useful general picture. I am now also addressing the issue of electricity consumption, wishing to reflect with you, ladies and gentlemen, more broadly and with some historical reference, at a very critical time of transformation and transition like this. It is a transition from climate problems, as we know, but also clearly from economic problems, resulting from the tragic events to which I referred first. In the early 1960s, gross national electricity requirements stood at 50 gigawatts a year; in the 1970s we reached 150, in the 1990s we exceeded 200 and today we exceeded 300 gigawatts a year. Wanting to analyze this demand still growing in the years to come, just for the objectives we have proposed, we observe that about 50% of the electricity is produced by thermal power plants, now all working with methane, with some residue of coal plants in the process of disposal or conversion, except for a possible temporary restoration for contingent reasons. We can also say that in recent years we have been good, having converted natural gas plants, which is a much less polluting fuel than coal and oil of oil origin and therefore irreplaceable means for the transition process. About 40 percent of electricity is produced by different sources, such as hydro (the first historically renewable source), wind and photovoltaic, but also geothermal and biomass. Finally, just under 10% is imported directly from abroad. The road that remains for us to go cannot but be based on three specific points: diversifying the sources of supply for the components to which we cannot give up and which make us vulnerable, as they are dependent on raw materials that are not of our production, strengthening also the exploitation of the national resources available; pursuing the energy efficiency for the reduction of the consumption; increasing to the maximum the realization of plants for the production of electricity from photovoltaic, wind, geothermal and hydroelectric sources, but also stimulate the realization of anaerobic digestion plants of organic waste in order to produce electric energy by means of cogenerations and also to produce gas. I insist on this last point because on our extraordinary peninsula and on our islands we have three extraordinary resources: the sun, the wind and the water. About 300 billion cubic meters of water fall into our territory during the year. With a respectful approach to our natural landscapes, we must initiate more streamlined procedures without misleading prejudices. We can and must use residential and industrial roofs of any size for photovoltaic systems of small and medium size diffuse, which can be realized without having to upgrade the distribution networks or make large investments. Appropriate incentive measures should be increased. We can use non-cultivable land for gas and oil supply and diversify renewables. (10.10 a.m.) (Follows MOLLAME). We have hydroelectric plants that are extraordinary engineering works with a long history behind them. These are the first plants to produce electricity from renewable sources and must be upgraded and made more efficient and performing. Above all a real plan must be made for the indispensable function of accumulation connected to the production of electricity from limited programmable sources, such as wind and photovoltaic. I would like to comment on another point. We need to strengthen the possibility of developing electricity from geothermal sources. We're almost there. 20 kilometers from the surface of our earth there are temperatures of several hundred degrees and recent developments for the realization of an equipment (the girotrone) will probably allow us, within one or two years, to reach that depth. It will be the only resource, together with the production of steam, capable of replacing the methane of our thermal power plants. We must strengthen the search for new solutions and ideas and - above all - our capacities, which are renewable from generation to generation, with the hope of starting to look further, towards a safer future for our children and grandchildren, coming out of the continuous emergency procedures that we have been forced to cope with in the last two years both for the pandemic that has certainly caught us unprepared, and for the war unleashed in our Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u14	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u15	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators and senators, Italy, most of the time, acts in emergency and when action is taken in emergency, we never work with foresight and reflection. When actions are taken and then one looks back at what has been done in the past, one always gets acquitted, because it is said that there was an urgent move on measures at that time. In the political scenario came the Movimento 5 Stars, which no longer reasons in this way. This is a wrong mechanism to reason on. For the measures we face, we always keep an eye on the future and always try to understand what will happen before us. We did this when we led this Parliament not to vote on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and instead to bring 220 billion with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[Applause]] The PNRR has given the opportunity to intervene on health and, in particular, on research. We have also done so when someone here was talking about nuclear power or coal-fired power stations. We, with measures like this, invest heavily on renewable sources. We do this when we continue to talk about leaving no one behind: we do it ourselves, with the income of citizenship, and with the provision to our examination of energy poverty, one of the central points from which we should start. [[Applause]] Above all, with measures like this, when someone continues to say that we have to pierce to extract gas, we make a different reasoning: we try to simplify the installation of photovoltaics on the roofs, because - we have to say - if we want to continue to pierce, compared to 73 billion cubic meters that we consume, there are only 90 below. So, there's no point in getting all this gas out, because there's no gas. You have to work differently. When, fortunately, someone also talks about alternative energies, we have already taken a step forward and have already created a superbonus. Give us a hand defending him. I appeal to the Government: give us a hand to extend all the measures that we take and that all go in that direction. [[Applause]] I also say this to those who, perhaps elected by our votes, sit in the comfort armchairs, those of the opposition, to shoot any kind of amendments against the Movimento 5 Stars. This is a measure that needs to be voted on; therefore, as there are extensions, let us all vote on it together, because it is trying to go in this direction. [[Applause]] I was talking about foresight: in this measure there are 8 billion, 2.5 of which go precisely to the chains that are chained, for the wrong choices of the past, to the fossil sources. These companies are in a lot of trouble and we are trying to help them get back on the market. They can enter the market in a different way, taking a step forward. In these days our minister Di Maio is trying to do what we put in our electoral program, that is to differentiate the use of fossil sources from other countries. He is doing a widespread job that many people continue to dispute, but it is a work that goes deep that we had already talked about five years ago. [[Applause]] We have also tabled absurd amendments to this text. Unfortunately, we have to deal with the measures, and it is pointless to convince ourselves that it is enough to bury three pieces of gold in order to bring up a tree of coins. The budget is this, the money is this, we try to intervene on the companies and help them, with energy efficiency, with conversion, with self-production and acceleration on renewable sources. The measure in our examination contains the simplification to install photovoltaics in the suitable areas, not damaging the landscape, ecosystems or crops, the possibility of making storage systems much more simplified and self-consumption. I go fast because my time is almost over: the measure also contains simplifications of the passages and bureaucratic iter and help to the most fragile subjects. As I said, there is also the intervention on the superbonus: we have a team of parliamentarians who work day and night on the superbonus. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is useless that we say we do more; we do it every day. In conclusion, Mr President, this measure, unfortunately, is due to the emergency; the Movimento 5 Stars has always thought of the citizens and we confirm it. That is what we said in the election campaign and we also confirm by voting on this measure: for us, the only lobbyists are the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u16	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u17	Mr President, the measure before us should have been a genuine strategy for the economy of our nation, especially to protect two people: businesses and citizens. This decree-law should have looked, yes, to our generation, but above all to the future ones, which will find in their hands, instead, a bad legacy left by this Government. You are very unbelievable and the demonstration lies above all in the issues you are dealing with, which in your opinion are the priorities. We are talking about the mandatory POS with penalties for those who do not adapt; the lottery of receipts; the obligation of electronic invoicing for those who even fall under the flat-rate scheme. Instead of working to solve the problems of citizens and businesses, the last Council of Ministers decides well to postpone to a date which we do not know, therefore not well defined, the energy interventions. Well, I think you can't do worse than that! Italian companies, as we all know - Brothers of Italy does not say - are in great trouble: 30 percent have reduced their production and within very few, according to all the associations of category, the damage will be incalculable. Apart from all the measures you are taking, even in a very forced way, from our point of view, practicality and a strategy continue to be lacking, and we will never stop saying so. In the measure that we are about to vote on, the worst thing is that nothing is simplified: the serious obstacle to innovation and also to investment continues, which we should somehow attract. Today, that is, those who come to invest in Italy find a mountain to climb and this acts as a disincentive. Of course, we of Brothers of Italy are not and will never be for a consumption of wild soil, but we cannot remain hostage. We must say that there has been great scientific progress in recent years, including with regard to innovative materials, and this could enable us to govern the process of energy transition in our territories and also in our cities. We know perfectly well that there is no zero impact. What is lacking in this measure is clear, namely a reference to fuels, which nowadays certainly represent one of the highest costs that both companies and citizens have to face. [[Applause]] So this is certainly a problem and the government has done little or even nothing to date. Let us not forget that inflation rose to 6.7 percent in March. The transport sector, which is certainly a very important sector with regard to our country - especially the rubber sector - plays a primary role and is also a key sector with regard to the employment front, so the objective would be to immediately reduce the excise duty of 40%, as we have repeatedly proposed in all the various Commissions. We must also intervene on VAT and not create disparities, as many industry associations denounce. An entire chain risks being brought to its knees because of this Government which has created a real competition between fuels. It is clear that this situation has become unsustainable, both for operators in the sector and especially for users. The process of ecological transition, of which so much is spoken (and, as I prefer to define it, of ecological conversion, because in fact they are all conversions), is irreversible and crucial and must lead Italy towards the definitive abandonment of fossil sources and adopt more sustainable energy sources, as I said before. Mr President, we know perfectly well that nothing has a zero impact, but we must also get used to the idea that we can no longer procrastinate and that we also need sensible and courageous choices. In this measure, as I said before, I see no simplification at all. Unfortunately, this decree-law creates additional bureaucracy and above all confusion. That same bureaucracy, perhaps, represents the worst limit for achieving the decarbonisation objectives, so much desired. These limits, of course, will never allow us, continuing with this step, to achieve what our country needs, namely energy independence. The real nightmare, especially in recent years, is the construction of RES plants (renewable energy sources), but the lack of streamlined procedures discourages investments in our country. Let's not forget that Germany has started running, also launching an important plan to install 20 gigawatts per year for the next three years, which will accelerate to increase to 40 gigawatts until 2035. Same thing France is doing. What about Italy? Nothing, and this is definitely your demerit. The aim is to avoid losing the great opportunities that are provided to us, as we have always said in this House, by the PNRR. We must remind all of us that it will be our children and also grandchildren who will repay the debt. Therefore, it should also be implemented in a strategic way. What is lacking today is not only strategy, but also foresight. You have not approved any solution regarding the promotion of self-production and self-consumption of energy for households and businesses. The energy efficiency of buildings must be encouraged. Let us not forget that a large part of the public administration offices is old and obsolete. And I want to denounce, in this House, also the waste of heating in public facilities, of which no one is talking and which represent a real slap to all those families that today are struggling to reach the end of the month and who do not know how to pay energy bills. [[Applause]] No mention of the Made in Italy and the incentives to re-launch the national production of the sector and also of the induced. We have completely forgotten the territories that have been affected by the earthquake. More could and had to be done for the implementation of centralized systems for production and distribution in the community. The laws should include some measures, but they have not done so for a long time and this is certainly a big problem. When the left was a social left, he said that there was an obvious problem of development model. He doesn't say anything anymore. The need to supply gas, especially during this period, certainly exists, but we cannot and must not make the same mistake that we have made with Russia and that Brothers of Italy has always remarked. Self-sufficiency is certainly important to us and it is clear that going to Qatar today, rather than to Algeria, serves. Self-sufficiency, however, involves a serious battle, and nothing is said about this in the provision before our examination. This decree-law does not even mention the energy transition plan. In conclusion, Mr President, we are also genuinely concerned about the superficiality with which such a sensitive matter is being dealt with. This is a situation, as I said before, which is certainly unsustainable and cannot and must not be put on the subject of Italian energy shortages on individual citizens and on individual families, because this would bring our businesses to their knees. The Italians look at you, they hear you. Definitely without strategy this country will have nothing. This is an empty decree-law, which, as I said before, lacks strategy and foresight. But the Italians are there, they hear you and they will surely take them into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u19	Mr President, the text of the decree-law to be converted into a law that we are about to vote on contains urgent measures to reduce the costs of electricity and natural gas, to develop renewable energy and to relaunch industrial policies. It is the result of a first intervention by the Government, dated 1 March last, aimed at limiting the increases in the bills resulting from the large increases in gas. First of all, there is a reflection on these powerful increases in the price of gas. Minister Roberto Cingolani, on the occasion of an information given just last month in this House, told us that a year ago gas was costing 30 cents of euro per cubic meter and filling a storage of 10 billion cubic meters of gas cost 3 billion euros. The price to March 2022 - it has continued - is instead pairs to 1,5 euros to cubic meter and the potential cost of storage is therefore gone up to 15 billion euros. Since the amount of gas has not decreased and the flows are substantially similar, the Minister closed by noting that it is not fair to go from 3 billion to 15 billion. It is therefore now clear to everyone that the increase in energy costs is the result of financial speculation. The mechanism of determining the price of gas, in fact, depends only in part on the game of real demand and supply. Some considerations on this issue of speculation must therefore be made. With the progressive exit from the pandemic, as a result of the vaccine coverage, we witnessed a strong economic recovery in 2021, fueled in Europe also by the confident expectations of the effects of the Next generation EU. This growth created a bottleneck on the international market well before the Russian war in Ukraine: the latter only aggravated the critical conditions already recorded, also (but not only) because Ukraine transits the gas pipeline of Gazprom, which transfers gas from Russia to Europe. Finally (but not least), it should not be forgotten that gas, like any commodity, can be traded on financial markets through instruments such as futures and derivatives, which generates a daily financial price decoupled from the material exchange of energy. The gas is quoted as the shares of a company, which go up and down according to different logics from the industrial ones, and can reach, as it has happened, very important peaks, disenchanted from the quantities produced and exchanged. The government has therefore acted decisively in an effort to reduce the critical effects of increases in the cost of gas, while still little has been done in Europe to deal with the financial speculation I have mentioned. On this it will be important for Europe itself to be able to take decisions, which can limit the fluctuation so strongly that the price of gas has had. The text of the decree-law issued by the Government, then modified by the Chamber of Deputies in the process of conversion into law and which we are discussing today contains important measures, some of which have already seen follow-up in the decree-law price cuts, now under discussion in the Commissions 6a and 10a of the Senate. The Decree-Law provides for the zeroing of electricity and gas system charges for the second half of 2022 and confirms the reduction of VAT on gas. There is the novelty of the reporting by ARERA on the resources allocated for the reduction of the general charges of the bills; the reporting will have to concern in particular the availability in account residuals transferred to the cash for the energy and environmental services and distinguishing between the electric sector and the gas sector. The report will have to be forwarded by ARERA to the Ministry of the ecological transition, the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the Parliamentary Commissions by 16 May. The standard also provides for reporting from 1 June 2022 and within 30 days of the date of entry into force of further measures to limit the effects of price increases and another on an annual basis. The Ministry of the ecological transition will then have to prepare the national strategy against energy poverty; the strategy will have to provide for the setting of periodic indicative targets in order to develop structural and long-term measures at national level and integrate all ongoing actions with those planned in the various public policies in order to combat the phenomenon in a homogeneous and effective way. The decree recognizes to the energetic enterprises that have suffered a significant increase of the relative cost an extraordinary contribution in the form of tax credit pairs to 20% of the expenses incurred for the energy component acquired and actually utilized in the second trimester of 2022. The bonus is also recognised in relation to the expenditure on electricity produced and self-consumption by energy companies in the second quarter of 2022. It is a first important measure, there are follow-ups in the so-called price-cutting decree that I mentioned earlier and the discussion we are going to have here in the Senate on that measure will be able to bring further recognitions. A similar measure also applies to companies with high consumption of natural gas, to which there is an extraordinary contribution in the form of a tax credit amounting to 15% of the expenditure incurred for the purchase of gas consumed in the first solar quarter of 2022 for energy uses other than thermoelectric uses. It was then given green light to an important redefinition of the electricity market, with the possibility for the Manager of energy services (GSE) to withdraw and purchase energy from renewable sources through the conclusion of long-term contracts of at least three years duration. The energy purchased by the GSE would then be sold at a price fixed by a ministerial decree of the Ministry of the ecological transition as a priority to large companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and customers of the major islands. Still on the renewable energy front, the decree provides for measures for the development of these sources and for the containment of energy prices. Action is taken on the rules on the criteria under which a final customer becomes a self-consumer of renewable energy. In particular, a further hypothesis is introduced concerning the production and accumulation of renewable electricity for its consumption with renewable energy plants located at buildings or at sites other than those at which the self-consumer operates, excluding the connection of utilities other than that of the production unit and the consumption unit. It then rises from three to four the number of disposals that can be made with reference to the tax credits. In particular, provision is made for the possibility of a final transfer by banks only to those with whom they have concluded a current account contract. The rules apply to notifications of the first transfer of the credit and the invoice discount sent to the Revenue Agency from 1 May 2022. The decree intervenes on many other fronts, I mentioned only the most important passages. The very serious difficulties to which the decree places a first remedy - we must not hide it - are the result of international tensions on which our country has taken clear positions and with respect to which I believe that all political forces should no longer have any kind of hesitation and be determined to support and recognize this action in a clear way. Such international tensions are leading to the impoverishment of families and businesses not only in our country. We cannot allow international geopolitical tensions and economic effects to lead to people's distrust of democratic institutions. On Monday we will celebrate the 77th anniversary of Liberation from Nazi Fascism, a historical fact that is the basis of our own republican civil coexistence, but also an experience that evokes fatigue and drama. History teaches us that we cannot go back on defending principles and maintaining support for those who need it most. The Government and the majority continue their efforts to support the country at this complicated time: no one should feel alone in this difficult phase. It is our commitment and we will carry it forward with determination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss draft law No 2588 which seeks to deal with the rising costs of diesel and raw materials. Unfortunately, I must once again note the schizophrenia of the current policy and, in order to demonstrate what I am saying, I will refer to two articles of the measure which are of particular interest to the Committee on Agriculture, of which I am a member. I refer first of all to Article 11, which should regulate the development of photovoltaic plants on agricultural land. It must be said that, when it was adopted by the Council of Ministers, the measure provided for a very precise limit. In particular, by way of derogation from Article 65 of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2012, which prohibited access to state incentives for photovoltaic plants, especially those with floor panels, the Council of Ministers, in order to cope with the energy crisis, had substantially provided the possibility for a company to access state incentives for photovoltaic panels on the ground, but with the limit of 10% of the company's surface. The measure is first examined in the Chamber of Deputies and I do not want to dwell on the scandalous method of working which at this moment there is for the analysis of the measures in the two Chambers, since here in the Senate the bill has arrived armored and we have not been able to make any changes. What happened to the House? Probably at the urging of the energy multinationals, it was thought well to cut the limit by 10%. This means that we are exposing farms to the harassment of the energy multinationals that can entic farmers and take advantage of land that is used for food production. I have spoken of the schizophrenia of politics because, on several occasions, the people involved in agriculture are calling for food sovereignty, since, precisely at the time of the Ukrainian conflict in the heart of Europe, we have understood that national and European policy in relation to agriculture has been partly bankrupt. In fact, we have abandoned agricultural chains in Italy which have now become strategic - I am talking about wheat and maize - because farmers have never been guaranteed the cost of production. We are therefore going to amend the measure, in which a limit was set by the Council of Ministers, to free everyone. It is said to the farm that it can also cover the land that serves to produce food - and never at this time - solar panels and access to funding. It is a very serious matter and we refer to directives that within thirty days will have to be issued by the Manager of energy services and the Council for Research in Agriculture and the analysis of the agricultural economy, but, as we know, in Italy of if and but are full of the pits. This is a free all of which we must necessarily take note. Article 12-a deals with by-products from food and agro-industrial activities in respect of biogas production plants. In this case, too, the measure adopted by the Council of Ministers had an acceptable wording, but when it came to the House it was modified. At this moment the three cards are being played, because in all the measures it is established that these products can be defined by-products, and therefore destined for biogas plants, if they comply with the dictation of Ministerial Decree 23 June 2016, an article of the environmental code and the norms contained in Title IV of the interministerial decree 25 February 2016. This is what is laid down in the decree-law under consideration; however, in the measure that will presumably come to the examination of the Assembly on 20 May, the so-called decree cuts prices, this rule, which must act as an embankment and regulate these by-products coming from food business, is repealed. Therefore, slowly, with the excuse of the emergency, there is not only economic and financial speculation on these products, on diesel and also on raw materials, but also political, because taking advantage of this emergency situation, the Government of the best (I recommend) is inserting measures that no Executive had ever approved and is repealing some regulatory achievements that had been made in the last twenty years. We are therefore in a period of unprecedented national constitutional obscurantism, which is jeopardising all the protections that had been introduced in the last twenty years in the protection of the environment and the stakes that had been placed for agriculture, really risking to make the country fall into a situation of serious irreversible damage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today has, as we know, been the subject of great debate and also of numerous changes in the other area of Parliament. This is the result of a majority which, as is well known, is heterogeneous and whose parties, in terms of energy, presented themselves to the elections with different, if not opposite, programmes, but was also the result of long and careful work, given the importance and delicacy of the subject. In this regard, allow me to thank in particular my fellow Members of Forza Italia for the significant improvements they have made to the text, in particular to increase, until doubling, the national production of gas through extension of the research and cultivation areas, for the release of important shares of electricity at price Calmierato to the energy companies, for the metanization of the Mezzogiorno, for having implemented the production of biogas for the aerospace sector, for increasing the production from renewable sources without additional employment of public soil and for promoting hydro-electric and geothermal accumulations. The sudden and exponential rise in energy prices has therefore made the decree-law in question necessary, but it should not simply be conceived as a buffer measure, because while it contains the introduction of contingent measures to limit the effects of increases in electricity and natural gas prices, it also includes structural measures and simplification in energy matters. We are therefore in favour of the measure before us and will vote in favour with conviction, but we cannot fail to point out that much remains to be done. For example - and this, let me say this, is an absolutely central aspect on which I personally and many colleagues of Forza Italia have solicited the attention of the Government - it is necessary to ensure the necessary liquidity to the companies in order to at least bear the dizzying increase of the costs of gas and electricity that we are living. A measure with this aim is not only desirable and of obvious necessity and urgency, but it is now absolutely legitimate in the light of the European Commission's communication on the new temporary framework for State aid. The temporary crisis framework adopted by the European Commission and evoked by the resolution to the DEF, presented yesterday by the parliamentary majority and welcomed by the Government, allows Member States to use the flexibility provided for by the State aid rules in order to support the national economies damaged by the war in Ukraine. Italy can, in my opinion, give aid to companies in crisis so that they can at least partially survive the energy crisis, as a result of the geopolitical crisis, and have the minimum of liquidity necessary to continue the investments for their companies. I therefore come back to ask with determination, on behalf of myself and of Forza Italia, for a moratorium until 31 December 2022 on the payment of loans and other loans to which companies had access before the pandemic. I would like to remind you that few of them have so far been able to honour the payment of loans in January, February and March. I think we can expect a further deterioration in the situation in the future. We are asking, in other words, to save the Italian productive fabric; a common sense which cannot fail to find the greatest sharing in Parliament and the Government. Among other things, the proposal for a regulation submitted by the European Commission to the European Parliament to transpose the Basel 4 standards, with regard to the prudential requirements to which credit institutions and investment firms must comply, is likely to be a further constraint on our country's credit system. That is why we cannot allow ourselves, even for a moment, to hesitate on the moratorium on mortgages, otherwise we are not only risking the loss of jobs and the failure of thousands of companies, but also, I would like to remind you, the collapse of the credit system. So much so that the Italian Banking Association (ABI) has more than once launched an important alarm bell on the spot. Finally, let me make a general assessment. I absolutely do not question the good faith of those political parties or movements which have had totally rigid positions over the past few years on the energy issue and which have led to a series of nos to those changes which we feel are necessary today. Today's emergency is also the result of yesterday's missed choices. I repeat: it may be that the fault is not of anyone because when you do not manage to have a common strategy of development of the country, when the country faces certain challenges cannot make team, it means that we are all, in a sense, responsible. We are all called into question for not being able to look far, for not being able to explain and understand that some choices had to be made with courage and foresight. But if we cannot change our past, we have a duty, ladies and gentlemen, to change the future of Italy and the Italians. I hope that this measure will be not only the response to the contingent difficulties of families and businesses, but it will be the first step for our country in a reasonable time to move towards energy independence to protect our national interests and our survival. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u23	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u24	Mr President, undersecretary Gava, ladies and gentlemen, the high prices, in this case the high prices relating to the cost of energy and gas, are making itself felt heavily on Italian households and, at the same time, is holding back growth. On the one hand it puts families in difficulty and on the other it prevents those who do business from moving forward, growing and developing. Yesterday's forecast by the International Monetary Fund that GDP in Italy in the current year will be around 2.3%, unlike last year, when it stood at 6.6%. One of the causes that determines this discrasia in negative is the energy dependence of Italy from other countries. This is an issue, as happens in other areas, which policy must address, as is happening, from two points of view: firstly from the point of view of contingency and, secondly, from the perspective and the future. What has been done about contingency? A measure has been taken to limit the increase in the cost of energy and gas for households, businesses and local authorities, with an important allocation. As far as we are concerned, it is likely that if we need another budget, this Government and this Parliament will only be able to act in this direction. On the other hand, what should be done in perspective? We must speak frankly and radically change the approach to what has been until recently. Enough with ideology, enough with no, enough with senseless fears, enough with irresponsible attitudes. We must move forward with common sense and pragmatism, in the interests of our country first and foremost. We must exploit natural resources, where there are, we must have common sense and the responsible approach to taking advantage of the discoveries of science and technology; at the same time, we must have the courage to diversify sources. [[Applause]] Renewable? Yes, absolutely, yes, but we need to accompany the energy transition - Europe says so, not just us bad ligistics - with the latest generation of gas and nuclear power. [[Applause]] This is an inevitable route, except that someone does not want to imagine that, instead of our beautiful country, there is the wonderful panorama of Heidi and the grandfather of Heidi. There is also another important aspect. It has been considered the forecast of the import of gas, but, as far as we are concerned, certainly noteworthy attention must also be given to the production of gas within our own country. What is achieved by this pragmatic, responsible and common sense approach? We support families, who can grow and be founded with serenity and safety, because, if we rely on technology, we do not put at risk either the health of people or the health of the environment around us. Businesses are supported, which can benefit from a new shift in pace and pace thanks to the prospect of a new technology. We must also give concrete support here too to the municipalities, because, if they are not supported from the point of view of the cost of energy, gas and not only, they will inevitably have to struggle for a lower quality of services and there will be an inevitable increase in taxes on citizens. And we cannot and must not allow that today. [[Applause]] I would like to make another reflection on renewable energy. We know - I know from direct experience - that there are countless disputes between those who have put up renewable energy plants and the GSE in some cases and the Revenue Agency in other cases. A hypothesis that cannot be overlooked is to look carefully at these disputes and to consider putting in place a measure that either suspends them or cancels them completely or at least revises the chapter of sanctions and interests. In fact, we have already existing plants, which are blocked by these disputes and which could so much give Italy in terms of lower costs and greater renewable energy. Then we have the bureaucracy. With this decree-law an important step forward has been taken; there has been an acceleration, but it is not enough. We know that in some ways Italy attracts investment from the point of view of renewable energies, but at the same time what blocks them or even rejects them is the length of the technical-administrative procedures of our country. It is a field challenge and is the most important if you really want to move on. Today what is happening in Puglia and specifically in Taranto? The first offshore wind power plant is inaugurated which is authorized and whose tape is cut sixteen years after the project is presented: it is something unacceptable and incomprehensible [[Applause]] , especially at a time like this. Some regions need to be given a look at. There are some that have natural resources, they already have opportunities for the hands on which they have direct ownership, and on some events they do not even have to wait for the intervention of the state. I urge these regions to immediately make available to their citizens economic resources or natural resources such as gas, because people cannot and must no longer wait. What has happened in these two years? The world has changed, because there has been a pandemic; because there is a war going on at the gates of Europe; and because priorities have changed and politics must live up to this change that there has been so abruptly. Politics cannot give up, it must not fall back on itself, but it must re-launch, in our view, on the basis of two essential aspects. On the one hand, the mistakes of the past must no longer be committed. One of these mistakes is that obtuse, populist, irresponsible and senseless environmentalism that has stopped the country for too long. [[Applause]] ; We can no longer repeat these mistakes. To be clear, it is that environmentalism that - it is an example of many - is manifesting itself in the Adriatic Sea, where from the same basin there is Croatia pulling gas and Italy that, for this ideology, does not pull anything. On the other hand, the strength is the courage of new ideas, avant-garde ideas and concrete actions. Today is the birthday of Rome and to this city I address - I imagine on behalf of all - a deep and heartfelt wish. Yesterday the mayor of Rome, Gualtieri, debunked this taboo of obtuse environmentalism, senseless and irresponsible, and announced that by 2025 he will realize a thermo-valuer for the city of Rome. It took a huge pile of waste, and perhaps the energy crisis, to convince the mayor to do this. We learn this news so favorably, also because I want to remember that there is no greater victory than seeing your adversary's mouth shine your truth. This happened today in Rome and we hope that it will happen throughout the country, with courage, with vision, with responsibility, in the interest of all Italians after having definitively archived an ideology that has never had a sense of existence and that today, even more, has no sense that it continues to exist. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u25	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I shall postpone the speaking time, as has been requested, although it seems to me that we are the only ones who respect the proposed minutation. I would therefore ask you to hand over the written text of my speech, so that it can be published in the annex to today's report. It is true that, speaking of the containment of energy costs, it is okay to intervene, as provided for in the decree-law at our examination, with the cancellation of the general system charges for electricity users or, again, reducing the rates of VAT on the supplies of methane gas. Therefore, reducing the cost for Italian citizens and businesses works, but we know very well that this cannot be enough, because it must first be pointed out that a reduction in costs can only be achieved if we have a real saving in the use of energy sources: we therefore need to consume less. Secondly, we must ensure that our country no longer depends on other countries energy-intensively, and all of this can only be achieved in one way, ladies and gentlemen, namely the use of renewable energy sources. [[Applause]] There's no other way! The question of intervention on renewable energy sources is precisely that 15% of citizens who, in the first two months, did not have the money to pay electricity bills. There is energy poverty in our country: 15% of Italians, already before the pandemic and war, lived in energy poverty and these numbers are dramatically destined to increase. If we do not intervene on energy sources, those people will not know how to pay even more expensive and salty bills. Just take a look at the national energy balance to understand where we are with the development of renewable sources in Italy. Today, our supply from renewable sources takes place for 20%, while the use of oil and methane, which goes well beyond 33-35 percent, always dominates it. We must then ask ourselves what we have to do and how we can intervene. A concrete signal is also being given to us by the war, which is showing us that our energy dependence undermines our democracy. So, in order to protect our democracy and the Italy system, we must try to be energy independent. As in democracy every citizen is an important and fundamental part of the community and the country, so in order to have energy independence it is necessary to ensure that every citizen and every community is protagonist in the energy independence of the country. All this, how do you do it? Will it remain just an electoral ad, a sort of propaganda that I listen to here too, from the right and from the left, and also from the government? This must be done, in concrete terms, by measures which do not have any political color. [[Applause]] Whoever sits in this House and who is in the government knows that these measures have only one colour: the tricolour of Italy! [[Applause]] The measures I am referring to are energy communities and the 110% superbonus. We managed to obtain the extension of the superbonus from 29 May to 15 October 2022, for the communication of tax credits of 2021. We have been able to put in a fourth step, from banks to their accountants, but we must all tell ourselves once again that this does not work! [[Applause]] As long as the economic capacity is limited, in fact, that credit transfer mechanism is not attractive for companies to do the work. It is the entrepreneurs who are going on the field who are asking us this time. Pierluigi, who has a company in Caserta and does energy efficiency works and anti-seismic improvement, found himself the drawer full of tax credits, because the financial subject, whose name I do not want to make, at first contracted a time to buy the credits and then, unilaterally, decided not to respect it and failed to promise. What can Pierluigi and thousands of companies do now with those tax credits? They certainly cannot use them to pay the workers, supplies, materials and subcontractors, and they can't even cope with the daily costs they bear in their lives. They can't do that! So, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear and clear that the problem of companies is the blocking of the sale of credits. [[Applause]] How, then, can we intervene? In Parliament we can table amendments and we are presenting a lot of them. First of all, however, the Government must commit itself to imposing on financial entities, first and foremost those controlled by the State, the Italian Post Office and the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, to buy tax credits deriving from the invoice discount. [[Applause]] This must be done: the rest is chatter. It is also necessary to extend the progress of work by 30 June 2022 to 30% for single-family workers and to extend the deadline of 31 December 2022 for single-family workers by at least three months, because otherwise we will find this problem again at Christmas. It is also necessary to establish, once again, the concept of multiple transfer of tax credit. And if it just doesn't succeed, because you don't want to do it and you're afraid of the tax currency, then you decide that the transfer of credit from banks to your accountants can take place from the first step. In fact, there is no point in obliging banks to pass it on to the second, third or fourth passage. That sounds like a goose game to me. What are we talking about? [[Applause]] It really doesn't take anything. Mr President, I shall conclude. What is conceptually important? We know - and we are saying this to the entire construction chain and also to citizens, property owners and financial actors - that the superbonus cannot be eternal, because nowhere can a mechanism for spending 100 euros actually on 110 nominals work. Therefore, we must first give at least one or two years of stability to the multiple transfer of credits. [[Applause]] It is also necessary to have the strength - all together (Parliament, Government, social partners and stakeholders) - to equip Italy with a strategic industrial plan to stabilize the facilities. [[Applause]] In this way, when you want to do the jobs after the superbonus is gone, you can count on a building bonus. However, we must be careful, ladies and gentlemen. The building bonus can be as much as 300 or 500 percent (you choose the percentage), but if there is no credit transfer mechanism that bonus doesn't do any good. [[Applause]] In fact, the owner won't find anyone who will buy that bonus since he can't make up for it. For these reasons, I ask all of you to work, with a unit of intent, in the same direction in order to eliminate the blocking of the transfer of credits. Our amendments are there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u27	Senator Santillo, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech. The general debate is closed. The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I note that the Presidency - and I am on the distribution side - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Inc. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2588, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 17 of 1 March 2022 into the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u29	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 17, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.23 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u30	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent measures to reduce energy and gas costs, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Heads of Group decided that there was no discussion on the matter of trust and that explanations of vote should be made directly and the next call should be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u31	We proceed to the vote on the single article of bill n. 2588, conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law 24 August 1st March 2022, n. 17, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u34	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, this measure was originally a response to the significant increase in gas in the post-pandemic months, but unfortunately, as we know, it was immediately overcome by the dramatic international events that are a few kilometres from us. A war that - I remember it once again today - finds its foundation in the will of a part, Russia, to deliberately affect the geopolitical structure, violating the principles of international law and arbitrarily invading a country like Ukraine. For almost two months now this tragedy has continued, first of all humanitarian, which carries with it a load of death and pain that are not acceptable. I do not believe, however, that it is right to define this tragedy only as that of Ukraine; it would certainly be more correct to call it a global tragedy, which involves everyone, because the democratic values with which we have grown and which guide us in the daily management of the public thing are seriously put into crisis, trampled on by the will of a country to subvert the democratic rules. It is precisely on the basis of these premises that it seems right and proper to remember that the measure that we are preparing to vote on, as well as the others that have already been launched by the Government and that will be adopted shortly, is the natural consequence of a clear and clear choice of position, of a choice of field that our country has taken from the beginning, and it is the same choice of field that Europe and the Western world carry forward and defend without hesitation. It is clear that the war brings with it dramatic consequences, we said first of all humanitarian, but then there are economic consequences: according to Istat estimates, inflation in March has reached 6.7%, and the consequences are mainly families and businesses, those same families and companies that have already had to pay too high prices caused by the pandemic emergency. This strong growth in inflation worries all the countries of the euro area and at the moment, however, thanks also to the compactness of the European Union, the risk seems averted, despite the uncertainties caused by the various political and economic factors. One thing, however, is certain and has shown itself in a clear way: the insufficiency of the energy mix of this country. Of course, the situation of distress created by the war, emphasized also, however, by our lack of preparation - we did not move in time when we had the chance - has determined and is continuing to determine, especially in a situation such as the current one, a strong limitation for Italy. Now, President Draghi is doing everything in his power to make the country more stable, but we must bear in mind that the geopolitical framework in which we move is characterised by instability, and everything could change at any moment; but this is precisely why we need to focus on our reserves, our resources and our gas, so that we do not have to find ourselves in this situation in the future. What must certainly change is the energy policy of our country. The conflict has done nothing but highlight a nerve discovered by Italy, that is, our excessive and unbalanced dependence on a single supplier, Russia. We are certainly among the most fragile countries from this point of view, because we have never imagined a long-term forward-looking energy policy. Of course, maybe someone had tried before and it was the Renzi Government: unlocking it Italy had tried to move in this direction, slimming, for example, the excessive bureaucratization that paralyses the country's growth, but also trying to provide solutions to those that already constituted problems, for example, through investments in thermo-toolizers. The road, however, has always been studded by numerous nos of certain political parties, with the logical consequence that the stalemate was practically certain; a stalemate from which the Draghi Government is trying to get us out with targeted interventions, such as the measure that we will vote on today, because at the moment the priority is to help the families and businesses most affected by energy increases, the farmers increasingly in difficulty from the imports of raw materials and fertilizers. We must, however, have a clearer and broader idea of where we want to go. There is a need to encourage more and more the production of energy from renewable sources, to remove bureaucratic obstacles, which have always blocked procedures. We must imagine a different Italy, an Italy that is projected towards an energy autonomy. The billing order today is certainly a first step in this direction, but we cannot just take immediate action if we do not then have an investment policy. Therefore, it is good that the general system charges applied to public households in the second quarter of 2022 are zeroed. VAT will be applied to gas consumption invoices in April, May and June at 5%. The social bonus for the supply of electricity will be granted to disadvantaged families and those in serious health, while companies that have experienced a 30% increase in gas costs will be granted a contribution to compensate for the higher costs, through the tax credit formula of 15% of the expenditure incurred for gas consumed in the first quarter of 2022. On renewables, then, the decree provides procedural simplifications, starting precisely from the plants to be installed on farms and those activities that aim to have energy autonomy These are some measures provided for in the bill decree. We, like Italy Viva-PSI, have tried, with our amending contribution, especially thanks to our colleagues in the House, to facilitate the simplification of procedures, precisely to start, in the meantime, those plants that have been waiting for authorisation for too long: in the agriculture sector, one of the sectors most marked by the crisis, but also thinking of all those companies and companies that are suffering incalculable damage. I think it's time we take extra steps, make them quick. In addition to the necessary measures aimed precisely at helping families and businesses in difficulty, it is necessary to move in a compact way on these issues. Mr President, in addition to declaring our vote in favour of this measure, and also considering Europe and Sunday ballots in France, we hope that it will finally win the Italy of yeses, against the nos that we have suffered for too long in this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u37	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are truly based on what happened on this decree. This is a question of method. As you all know, it expires on 30 April. Therefore, we did not understand why the measure came from the House yesterday, at lunchtime, and this Government today decided to put trust in the Commission yesterday we had a great battle, the Undersecretary was also present, asking if there was any element of urgency that escaped us. In fact, we could not understand why, having still time, we were not given the opportunity to do the work for which we are paid, to go to the Commission, to table amendments and comments and to vote on them. Mr President, we have not been given an answer to this. We are here today, with yet another vote of confidence on a decree so full-bodied, made up of 43 articles, which is the first measure on a topic as direct as that of the energy problem. We are here to say nothing, to take this decree-law in a closed box and to vote for trust (not us, but the majority will). We have heard so many speeches from those who are in the government today and are a majority: that we could not trample on Parliament's priorities, that we had to recognize Parliament's dignity and allow it to exercise its role; then we see that, when certain people are sitting on the seats of the government, they change their minds and the fact of trampling Parliament is no longer straight, opening the Palace as cans of tuna is no longer straight. You've lost whatever I think, but it's okay, Madame Marquise, keep it up. Coming to the merits, this decree-law was sold to us as if it could solve all the energy problems of our nation; above all, we were told that it had been done to protect families and businesses. We, on the other hand, absolutely do not see the strong signs of troubleshooting. Then there is another issue that worries us: no one takes into account the inflation that is galloping in our nation, which today tell us to be equal to 6.7 percent. What is the reason for this inflation? I believe that we have all understood this: it is due to a greater extent to the high fuel, the high energy and the increase in the cost of raw materials. Perhaps only the government of the best does not realize a topic that will actually lead - and I do not want to be a Cassandra - to the collapse of our productive system. But - alas - we have also had this great disappointment from the Government, especially because we see that in this decree-law the bureaucracy increases, so it will be even more difficult for the enterprises, and there is no sign of what would be fundamental and called (a term much abused by the majority, but not applied) simplification. This measure shows that the sirens of no and radical chic environmentalists are increasingly being heard. Today we do not have a vision of energy supplies and what should reduce our dependence - which, I remember, has not diminished in the last five years, but has increased - because the gentlemen do not sit today in the government and - alas - have a fundamental influence on everything that is decided. Today someone should take a conscience test and think that if our nation is in this situation it owes it to those who only knew how to say no. No it has been said, for example, to the new generation of nuclear power, which would allow the disposal of waste, and then, however, to buy nuclear power from our neighbouring countries; it has been said no to the regasifiers, which absolutely could not be done; it has been said no to the extraction of gas in our home, and then to go and buy it in other countries. No has been said about regasifiers and today the government is working to buy floating ones, spending a lot of money and encountering serious problems to find them, because they are not so easy to find. I remember the election campaign of Mayor Gualtieri, when he swore to all his voters that he would never make the thermo-energy plant in Rome. Today's news is that Mayor Gualtieri has announced the arrival of a thermo-energy plant in Rome. I do not know whether it is right to act in this way, to show up in an electoral campaign in a certain way to take a few extra votes and then a few months later to deny it. These things shouldn't happen. Let me give you another example: the Lombardy Region has made available 12 million euros in order to be able to change the boilers to polluting biomass, because we know that they pollute, with a technology classified with a name that sounds a bit mocking, 5 stars, and that will allow not to pollute. The Lombardy Region has made this sum available and do you know what happened? This funding may go to 1,505 of the 1,506 municipalities of the Lombardy Region, but - heard - not to the City of Milan, because the Mayor Sala prohibited the application of this technology. [[Applause]] It's called Sala and it belongs to your majority. What should we say, that we are part of an opposition force, patriotic, that we would have wanted to make a contribution to this which is the first decree that is issued after 24 February and after the invasion of Ukraine? You think you are better, you know how to do everything, but you have forgotten, in this decree, the interest of the production system of our nation, because there is practically no measure to support companies. Yesterday you freed 10 billion of resources by believing that you are making an epochal intervention, but you will have seen that Germany, in order to contain the increase in prices, has made 100 billion available. To you who fill your mouths with Europe at every opportunity, but only when it is appropriate, I would like to ask how you feel today that you allocate 10 billion without giving answers, when Germany allocates 100 billion. [[Applause]] It would be good for you to do a truth operation with the Italians and, after two and a half years of a pandemic, which no one wanted, for which you asked for sacrifices to the Italians, tell the citizens clearly that we are facing an energy lockdown. [[Applause]] Have the courage to say that families and businesses will have to suffer an energetic lockdown due to your lack of vision. Do you remember the famous Sundays with alternate plates, the famous Sundays on foot? The problem for our nation is not represented, as President Draghi said, by the choice between the air conditioner and peace, but by the need to support our productive system and know that the resources that you do not spend today you will spend it tomorrow, because you will have to pay the Cassa Integrazione for those companies that, because of your inability, will have to close and fail. Congratulations! For all these reasons, the vote of Brothers of Italy will be strongly opposed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u40	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation deserved a very striking and very important decree of this kind. Our country, through the action of the Government, in 2021 had managed to accomplish an exceptional work, with a growth of gross domestic product above 6%, one of the best performances at the western level, and certainly the Ukrainian crisis, with all its - let's call them so - derivatives, has put a moment of stumbling with respect to this growth, that therefore must be faced politically with great decision. And this decree intervenes promptly, decisively and with very radical decisions. Mr President, I do not want to enter into the debate on the 43 articles that constitute the decree in its entirety, which have already been discussed in this morning's debate. Rather, I want to reflect on the general approach, on the underlying philosophy and, above all, on the perspective that we must build through this decree. Certainly the first step is to take note of the fact that there are countless businesses and millions of families in our country who are suffering the devastating consequences of Putin's evil attack on Ukraine, an absolute political responsibility that has consequences throughout the West, on the contrary, throughout the world, so rightly at the general level - especially on the part of individual nations - we are trying to intervene. This decree therefore adopts a number of fundamental options to help citizens and families and to support businesses cross-cuttingly, because the increase in gas and energy costs in general is as reckless as, in some respects, unforeseen. Let us be clear: the increase in energy prices is not only linked to the Ukrainian crisis; it had already been determined before, in the last months of 2021. There is no doubt that highly speculative elements have taken place. The companies that work with gas, with oil, we say generally with fossil commodities also for the production of electricity - and we know that our country produces almost 40 percent of the electricity burning these commodities - in Italy, where they are very few, they have had an extra - income, an extra -profit of 40 billion euros in the last five months. At European level, an estimate has been made that would amount to at least EUR 200 billion, so it is absolutely correct to redistribute these profits which, as we have already said, do not result from a management capacity of the company itself, but from speculative elements that in almost all cases are certainly exogenous compared to these companies, but whose benefits the companies enjoy. It is therefore correct, as I said, to redistribute. The Energy Regulatory Authority for Networks and Environment (ARERA) had proposed a 40% contribution; we are working in that direction. I would like to remind you that the Democratic Party was the first in the constitutional arc to table an amendment in this direction in the support-b decree. The government asked us to withdraw it, saying that it would include the content of that proposal in another provision and did so in this decree. A 10% contribution is a first step. The total of the last Ukrainian Decree 2, which we are discussing in the Commission, is financed, for example, in this way. It is in this direction that we must proceed, that is, by asking for a contribution to all companies that have had extra profit and distributing it to families and businesses that are paying a reckless price. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must also look beyond the quota, helping those in difficulty, but also building a prospect of growth. It is of every evidence that the central element is the constitution finally of an energy autonomy of our country, which is realized essentially within integrated policies at European level. There can be no country that can handle the impact of an international market on the price of gas, raw materials and so on. The drive of our Government and Parliament towards integration is therefore absolutely essential. I invite everyone to read the European Commission's latest Energy Communication to the European Parliament, the European Council, written and sent on 8 March (just over a month ago) and entitled RePower EU, which will be the key platform for all energy operations that Europe is going to do in the coming years. The basic philosophy of that intervention is exactly that taken up in the decree-law under consideration. I would like to be clear, because there were those who seemed almost happy with the energy crisis: I remember some speeches in this House a few weeks ago, saying that it was time to ban regeneration, to overcome the whole issue of green, not understanding that the opposite should be done. [[Applause]] We must accelerate because our continent and our country will build their own energy autonomy only by investing in renewables. I read the conclusions of the RePower EU Communication: "The developments observed in recent months in the energy markets are therefore also referring to the Ukrainian crisis," in particular the drastic change that has taken place over the last few weeks on the security side, calling for a net acceleration of the transition to clean energy in order to increase Europe's energy independence." Europe does not have its own materials; almost all sources are now exhausted, there is something in the North Sea, essentially owned by Norway, which is not part of the European Union and which in a few months has had an advantage of 150 billion compared to 5 million inhabitants. Do we want to continue with these policies or do we want to talk about policies of rebalancing, of transition, of social justice, of reducing costs, of reducing emissions, of energy security, which means geopolitical security to get out of blackmail? It is right, in fact, to get out of Putin's blackmail, but we cannot put ourselves structurally and over time in the hands of the blackmails of countries like Angola, Congo, Algeria and then we see who [[Applause]] It is right and good for the government to intervene in order to modify the supply contracts in the short term, because there is the urgency represented by Russia, but it is quite clear that while working in that direction, we must build long-term autonomy, the one that will give prosperity and well-being to all our citizens. Mr President, it is therefore important that this decree-law makes sense to talk about a revision of the subject of permiting, of authorisations. In this regard too, let us be clear: we must agree with ourselves. If we want renewable energy we must allow our country to build renewable energy plants: wind, photovoltaic, solar thermal, geothermal, biogas, biomethane, biofuels, smart grids, storage systems. To conclude, Mr President, the measure under discussion also provides for very important actions in the transition of the automotive industry (Article 22) to innovative and sustainable forms of production, in line with the European targets for reducing harmful emissions. For the transition of this fundamental industrial chain for our country are allocated 700 million in 2022 and a billion per year from 2023 to 2030, because there are thousands of companies working in this sector, hundreds of thousands of workers and the work must be guaranteed today, but above all tomorrow and only the transition will allow our country to guarantee development, prosperity and quality work. [[Applause.]] 11:54 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u43	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in announcing the vote in favour of the LEU-Ecosolidali component of the Mixed Group, I would like to briefly explain the reasons behind this vote. The decree-law under consideration, as we know, intervenes first and foremost in the necessary and emerging way to discharge from companies and families the cost of the bills of the current quarter through the zeroing of the system charges for the electricity consumption of the second quarter and the reduction of the VAT on the consumption of the gas to 5%. I believe that the birth of the National Strategy against Energy Poverty envisaged in the measure, which provides for its adoption by the Minister of the ecological transition with his own future decree, is of particular importance. The national strategy will lay down periodic indicative targets for the development, at national level, of structural and long-term measures and for the integration of ongoing and planned actions within public policies in order to combat energy poverty in a homogeneous and effective manner. This is fine, but the bulk of the innovative scope of the decree-law under consideration reflects the many times called for actions aimed at simplification for the strengthening of the production of electricity from renewable sources. In this regard, also thanks to the far-sighted and timely intervention of the Members of the House of Deputies regarding the initial version of the measure, we move exactly in the desired direction with the rules of the so-called solar belt, the solar belt. I remember that the solar belt greatly simplifies the installation of renewable energies, establishing suitable areas in industrial and craft areas, allowing also the possibility to install photovoltaics on the ground within 300 meters from the industrial, artisan and commercial destination areas, including sites of national interest as well as the quarries, mines and internal industrial areas, the highway network, the State Railways. The Ferrovie dello Stato group will have the possibility to use, with incentives to regime, the great industrial and logistic areas at its disposal in order to make concrete the increase of the production of electricity from renewable source. On self-consumption another very important rule allows the production and use of renewable energy for plants located in sites or buildings other than the point of consumption. It is a chain that breaks down and unlocks the physical limited availability of available areas, allowing the network to be the vector of the energy source so that the industry or even the family that has in their availability a site or building other than the point of consumption can realistically realize these plants. It is also of great interest to companies to envisage the possibility of direct electrical connections for a maximum distance of 10 kilometres, provided that this line combines only the point of production and the point of use. I can think of some news that I read about a week ago: a few weeks ago a large Umbrian confectionery group put many employees in the fund because of the increase in raw materials and also because of the increase in energy. Out of curiosity I went to Google Earth to see the surface of this huge plant, noting the absence of a solar panel. Now, I don't know the energy issue of the case I brought as an example, but satellite analysis showed that all the other factories around were full of thousands of solar panels. Entrepreneurs, who are at the forefront, must also be sensitive to energy costs. A sensitivity that they will now be forced to have, even if they did not have it before, because it is now an emergency that concerns the same industrial survival. The regulations introduced in this decree-law will help the energy managers and consultants, if the entrepreneurs do not have the ability, to find virtuous solutions to head towards what was a clear direction already for some time, even in prepandemic times, relative to the necessity to electrify essentially as much as possible the domestic and industrial consumption. It is necessary to electrify and electrification must be supported by renewable sources, which with this decree in many procedural areas will be facilitated. Also for photovoltaics on the roof there is a modification of the administrative regulation, much more simplified, and also in the historical centers or areas where urban constraints prevent the realization of solar thermal (to have the water sanitary) or photovoltaic; a possible solution has been found with panels integrated in the roofs, not visible from the public spaces, thus contesting the needs of landscape, architectural and historical-cultural nature with the need to produce much more energy. Of the railway areas I have already said: this will also be a great opportunity for the first consumer of national electricity, the State Railways. Our trains, which move the entire nation, are powered by electricity; this is also an element that goes in the right direction. The agrivoltaic, the reasonable one and done well, allows the continuation of the agricultural activity without consuming the soil and at the same time producing electricity, creating also favorable effects that counteract the water depletion of the land itself, especially in the Mezzogiorno. Here too the limit of 10% of the farm's agricultural area used for electricity production has been removed. Then there are the storage systems. We know very well that the limit of renewable sources (wind and photovoltaic) is to be discontinuous and non-programmable. But, gentlemen, research is developing on storage systems, with an innovation that is exciting from my viewpoint. We must not think only of batteries and electrochemical systems, with the problematic notes relating to the availability of raw materials, such as lithium, whose scarcity seems to have to characterize the future, in an increasingly less globalized world. There are innovative systems. Last week, a few days ago, an Italian startup won a world prize organized by BloombergNEF: they experienced a storage system that uses CO2 that is seized by the air, without using methane or gas. Using liquid to gaseous transfer systems, with a thermal system of transit and buffer, there is the possibility of using renewable energy to change the state of CO2 and regain the same electricity, with a very high efficiency coefficient, without emitting anything into the atmosphere and ensuring that the electricity that renewable sources at a time of over-production can supply can be used twenty-four hours later. 12:03 a.m. (Follow BUCCARELLA). You understand that we are starting to combine the dots that will allow us to build a straight line of production and use of electricity from renewable sources that will not suffer, in perspective, the problems of discontinuity and non-programmability. Not to mention the green hydrogen, which has fortunately entered into the public debate; there is no day, browsing a newspaper even generalist who is interested in the economy, who does not read about the great progress and the huge investments that are being made at global level in that direction. Green hydrogen will be one of the protagonists of the solution of ecological, economic and geopolitical problems. I close, Mr President, by reminding us of the opportunity - the media will remind us of it, of us who are distracted, like so many - that tomorrow will be Earth Day, Earth Day, born sixty years ago. We like to think that this small contribution that we make today with this vote goes in the direction of worrying about the health of our planet and of course of the next generations, in a reasonable, realistic, hopeful way, which is not marked by impossible visions, but rather by the most challenging, exciting and more difficult visions to fight and to win. As we are often reminded, the worst crises may give rise to the best opportunities to improve. I therefore announce LEU-Ecosolidali's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u46	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we will never tire of repeating - we have heard it everywhere - that the world has changed and is changing at an incredible speed, because of extraordinary events that are distorting every social and economic order. We can only react by opposing an extraordinary situation with extraordinary measures. We are facing a global pandemic and we are entering a war economy; we are already in it. Now rapid and effective counter-measures must be carried out to ride this great wave, avoiding being overwhelmed by it; counter-measures that act immediately to tackle and buffer the emergency, and that at the same time put in place structural measures of vision and strategy, to build the future that will come, for a solid Italy that above all comes out of uncertainties. It is the uncertainty that slows down, that kills. We need an immediate, decisive and profound review of systems in the social, economic, financial, energy fields, cutting down - we will never tire of saying it - and overcoming fences and ideological walls that hold back initiatives. Even today in this composite majority it is not easy to find mediation points, yet you can no longer make mistakes, there are no more resources to be wasted. I have heard that Germany has allocated 100 billion, Italy 10 billion. In fact, a lot of resources and a lot of billions have been allocated in Italy, but sometimes perhaps on wrong projects. Families and businesses are at the forefront; now, more than worried, they are distressed and expect answers. We must give answers and we must give confidence. The answers start from simplification, from structural incentives to make those who know how to work work. Just simplification and incentives are contained in this decree-law, thus transforming items of expenditure or apparent lack of income into investments for the future. We intervene on prices, on the shortage of raw materials (we are a country of transformers, on the other hand), on energy poverty with targeted interventions because, from the smallest artisan enterprise to the largest industry, this country is able to perform miracles if, however, the right conditions are created. Creating the right conditions is our task, our duty and our responsibility. What we are about to dismiss today is a measure that comes from the first decree-law issued post-war situation, which contains a whole series of measures aimed at tackling the rise in prices following the system crisis that we are experiencing, especially from the energy point of view - I repeat - and the lack of raw materials. There is a shift from zero system charges for the second quarter of this year to the development of a national strategy against energy poverty, to the extraordinary contribution for energy companies for sectors such as transport and automotive, to the promotion of biofuels that can make a significant contribution to the energy transition. Thanks to the proposed capacity of Forza Italia to the Chamber, measures have been introduced: to increase and even double national gas production through the expansion of research and cultivation areas, for the release of important shares of electricity at price Calmierato to energy companies, for the metanization of the Mezzogiorno, to implement biogas production, to support the aerospace and cement industry, to increase energy production from renewable sources without additional occupation of soil (buildings, agro-photovoltaic, serric plants, disused areas, contermine zones), to promote hydro-electric accumulations and geothermal. I would also like to mention the adoption of a National Strategy against Energy Poverty, the suspension of contributions by sports clubs, the simplification of the installation of floating photovoltaic systems, the simplification of the installation of electrical infrastructure, the increase of the energy efficiency of public lighting systems, the reduction of the thermal consumption of public buildings, the increase in the number of transfers of tax credits related to building bonuses, the extension of the deadline of communication of the options of transfer of credit or discount in invoice for Ires subjects and VAT consignments. In our opinion, important actions are missing, but this derives, as we said before, also from the necessary mediations, which we have indicated and which we will insert in the next decree-law that we are working on here in the Senate, the so-called decree cuts prices, in order to counter the economic effects of the Ukrainian crisis. We call for an industrial plant plan to be put to the ground, for example, in order to improve and strengthen the whole system of the circular economy, in which waste is finally considered a resource and primary good and is valued as a main energy source, together with other renewable sources, with a homogeneous system of adequate infrastructure, without the realization of which no transition can be made. So we must now, immediately, implement an energy policy that has not been implemented for thirty years. We must do in no time what has not been done for too long, thus implementing the sacred principle of reciprocity. In addition, we break down the ideological walls: today I heard it said by representatives of other groups, who intervened before me. That is enough with the No Committees, which even say no to the construction of renewable energy plants. Instead, training and skills need to be strengthened to govern innovation, to inform citizens correctly, to overcome any Nimby syndrome (not in my backyard) that creates the oxymoron of wanting sustainability strongly, but always far from its own vision and possibly not during its mandate, if they are mayors. [[Applause]] In this regard, let us run research on clean nuclear, teaching the difference between fission and fusion, remembering that we do not lower taxes also because we are already in breach of everything that we are not doing, first and foremost a single nuclear deposit, which would allow us to avoid transporting waste. So we must not be afraid, we must first give answers to families and businesses, we must worry before making them survive, and then we must be able to make them take off and move on. Today there are emergencies, which must be resolved immediately, starting from the expensive bills and the cost of the fuels, so half of the price comes from the tax levy, that it is putting on the knees the road haulage. To remove excise duties is an investment, it is not a lack of income, because I repeat that, if the road haulage stops, the country stops. Today the problem of waste is not so much how to give it and how to dispose of it, but how much it costs to carry it. It is no longer time to make mistakes, it is no longer time to say no, but it is time to work hard, using skills, supporting innovation, without fear and without ideological barriers. Let's just think about what happens in Porto Empedocle, where the superintendence today - now, now! - stops the realization of a regasifier, precisely in this historical moment when we should learn and understand that we have to change the way we look at our horizons. [[Applause]] I am still thinking of the fact that we have EUR 35 billion of investment blocked on renewables, precisely because it takes two to five years to obtain a permit and therefore is not plausible. For these reasons the Forza Italia Group begins by saying yes to the decree-law in question, expressing its strong support because, aware of the political responsibility that we have assumed, we want to become strong and certain builders of the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u49	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at school I was taught that, by changing the order of factors, the result does not change. Memories of that teaching - alas not recent - reverse the usual course of the explanation of vote, anticipating at the beginning that the vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will be favorable. This reversal does not depend on the desire for originality or the desire to distinguish me in some way, but rather on the determination to make a contribution to the conversion of the decree-law in question. The need to convert it by 30 April has given us the time limit so that we have arrived in this House without the rapporteur and without the possibility of improving the text of the measure by tabling amendments and all other acts that usually fall under the prerogatives of a Member of Parliament. Let me be clear: I'm not complaining about this. In the past I have argued that it is not the Italian Parliament that can determine the development of raw materials at world level, nor decide the development of the markets. The only part of our control is time, but it is crucial, because it would allow us to prevent a fair and appropriate measure from not being effective because it is not timely. Therefore, I welcome the timeliness of the intervention and point out that the contraction of the times is an essential objective element. It would be unforgivable if this decree were to lose its effectiveness, so I take note of the impossibility of proceeding differently and accept the fact that this Assise will not be able to contribute to the improvement of the provision. At the same time, however, I would like to leave a trace of what we could have done to improve the measure, which is unquestionably necessary. Some colleagues have censored the government's alleged abuse of the urgent decree, while in this case I believe that no one could discuss the existence of all the requirements of necessity and urgency. However, I would like to go beyond this reflection and point out that, in fact - yes - all the requirements are met, but they should not have been. Italy was also the fourth world economy, thanks - in part or in large part - to its manufacturing activity. What was the fourth world economy - and it is still one of the world's major economies - cannot and must not be found unprepared in the face of an emergency like this. It needed programming and avoiding improvisation, as unfortunately has been done. In fact, when you improvise, you risk pursuing a dream, but you don't achieve a goal. In the past, always from this scranno, I have highlighted the difference between an objective and a dream: the dream is intangible (that of going to the moon we can all have it), but it is not concrete, while the objective is concrete, because it is monitorable, programmable and staggered in stages that can be progressively implemented and verified in their implementation. Some of my colleagues, also in this debate, have highlighted the need to have only renewable sources. That is a beautiful dream, which I share, but it is - indeed - such. Let's do a parallel and imagine if the dream of fully electric mobility was implemented immediately. What would happen if our entire fleet of passenger cars became electric tomorrow? Let's imagine an exodus of normal August, with endless files and civil protection that often has to intervene, compared to what would be if all the machines were electric. To the normal and usual pathological elements that determine that situation we should in fact add a less autonomy and a greater time of charging of the vehicles, which on average exceeds half an hour (if it now takes five minutes to make a full of gasoline, to recharge whole an electric machine it takes more than half an hour). Therefore, we must not pursue dreams, otherwise we risk renewing that mistake that in the past has caused fundamental choices for our economy and for our country to be put aside. Some Members have mentioned nuclear power, we might remember many others, but this is not the time. What I want to highlight is that it is necessary to recover the vision that I do not say generational, as it was once, for which works were started, although knowing that it would not be seen the completion, but at least a medium-term programming: it is indispensable, otherwise we will always have to intervene in emergencies and improvise. Having said that, however, I remind myself first of all and my colleagues why this measure is so important and I do so starting not so much from the positive that there is, but rather from what is missing, to repeat again that the Senate could have made an important contribution to improving this measure. It contains a decision which I fully agree with, that of the amendment to Article 142 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and the Landscape. The League has always asked for simplifications: it has done so for the procurement code and for administrative procedures, it does so on every subject; in this specific case, in my opinion, the useful and appropriate choice has been to provide, precisely, a simplification for interventions that could benefit from the superbonus in the cases provided for in Article 142. I now turn to the Government, because the lack of time will prevent us from intervening today and in an imminent future, but it would not prevent the Government from intervening in a subsequent measure. I therefore call on my fellow Members of the Government to pay particular attention to this point, because it is a request for action. It is useful and appropriate, as I said, to provide for simplifications and greater possibilities for action in relation to Article 142. In my view, it was a wrong choice to exclude Article 136 from these possibilities. For colleagues who perhaps want to have a clearer idea of what I am saying, Article 142 of the code of cultural goods and landscape refers to areas protected by law; now, at last, it is possible in the intervention also to partially modify the silhouette and volumes of the building, because it is absurd that you benefit from a public contribution and you cannot improve the building. However, this should also be done for the cases referred to in Article 136, which are buildings and areas of considerable public interest. I imagine that in the discussion at the Chamber he discussed opposing interests and prevailing requirements and that therefore, for some objective motivation, perhaps referring to the main Italian cities, it was decided to exclude Article 136 from these possibilities. I would point out, however, that the exclusion of Article 136 for the earthquake victims is an important and enormous obstacle to reconstruction. Several times I have pointed out that in the attribution of priorities in government action we should have operated as doctors do in a First Aid, when they attribute the codes: the code red is not given to the healthy patient who has a small cut in an arm; it is given to the patient who risks dying or anyway to the serious patient. The same thing the Government and Parliament should have done in their action, precisely as Executive and Legislative: we should have given a red code and priorities to those who risk dying. In this case, by bringing the parallel to today's debate, we should have given it to the earthquake-stricken municipalities which could and should have benefited from the possibilities now available to them under Article 142, extending this intervention to Article 136. Therefore, my heartfelt invitation to the Government to provide for it immediately, because Parliament could do so in a next measure, but we do not know when it will be. The government could do that right away. I therefore ask you, please, on behalf of all those people, to intervene in a timely manner. I see that the time at my disposal is unfortunately almost over. I would just like to point out that there are many reasons to vote in favour of this measure, not least the 8 billion, 6 of which are destined to fight the dear energy, an issue which the League has immediately brought to the attention of the parliamentary assemblies, but also of the national leadership. There is an intervention in this sense and therefore our vote will be strongly favorable, because it is a measure, albeit not definitive and complete, very useful to the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u52	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, today we are talking about a speech on the great adjustment of the energy costs that citizens and businesses are experiencing. Let's think about what Adam Smith reminded us about the theories of the free market, when he said that the famous invisible hand would regulate the market so that the pursuit of profit by all market players would produce widespread well-being. All this, when compared with the speculation that we have seen, for example, on the price of gas, makes us understand that, perhaps, the neoliberal theories that have permeated for so many years the way of thinking of economists have failed - we must have the courage to tell ourselves certain things - because in reality the market is dominated by different interests. When we see, for example, as has been pointed out, that the price of gas is dominated by the futures that are traded on the Dutch Gasunie stock exchange, which - let us remember - is 100% owned by the Dutch State, and that the volume of future treaties is ten times greater than the volume of gas actually existing on the market, we understand that all this represents a complete disconnect between the real economy and the financial economy. This hurts people, citizens and businesses very much. Let's think about the renewables market, which has been mentioned: well, in this measure concrete actions are foreseen that serve to release the use and the putting in the field of renewable energy systems - for example, we see that the installation of photovoltaic panels on the roofs is now free building, and this helps a lot - but we must also remember that, if we are not careful, we make mistakes. And one of the mistakes I want to remember, for example, is related to those who produce photovoltaic panels in the world. The 2020 data shows us that almost 90% of the world's production of photovoltaic panels is located in Southeast Asia: China holds 70% of the world market; the second country is Vietnam, just to say one. In short, when we go to install photovoltaic panels and are unable to produce them, photovoltaic panels do nothing but encourage a non-European industry, so we must be very careful about the actions we are pursuing. When we say that we want to differentiate the flow of gas that arrives in Italy and Europe, dominated, as we know, by Russian gas, which supplies Europe 155 billion cubic meters per year, 142 of which by pipe and 13 by ship, we say we do so to put the Russian Federation in trouble. Here too, we should make a careful argument: the profits that Gazprom produces every year, according to the 2020 figures, are about 55 billion dollars, 45 of which are generated by the sale in Europe and 10 on the Asian market. If we see instead the debt-to-GDP ratio of the Russian Federation, we realize that it is 18%. What does that mean? If Gazprom's profits were to be paid back from public debt, it would be enough to increase public debt by about 2%. 18 percent of the Russian Federation's public debt is one of the lowest in the world. Then, when we make these reasonings, it is right from an absolutely ethical point of view to no longer supply ourselves from the Russian Federation, but we do not produce a deterrent economic effect on it. We must therefore be careful when we think about it, also because, if we then go to buy gas from other markets, such as the US one, we realize that we can buy it directly from US producers or through intermediaries. The strange thing is that the three largest operating intermediaries have their tax offices in Holland and, when we buy gas from intermediaries, we pay five times the price we would pay if we bought it directly from American producers. Once again, we see that much of this gas market is being done in Holland. Is the interest that European citizens want to pursue strategically for European citizens? Are we sure we do the right thing when we make certain decisions? We must be very careful, when we act, to what Europe's interest is. What we need to focus, in fact, is only Europe's interest. [[Applause]] We were talking about futures. Perhaps we should intervene at a slightly higher level. Maybe we should start thinking about a market where finance is less dominant. We could do that if we went before the World Trade Organisation to explain that finance must be limited. Is this a dream? Is it a utopia? But without utopia, what is politics for? Without the desire to determine something concretely difficult, a dream that has not yet been realized, but that can and must be realized, why do we make politics? When we intervene on these issues, we have a direct effect on people's lives. I heard someone talking about nuclear power. He probably doesn't know what he's talking about, because nuclear energy is so expensive that it doesn't make sense to talk about it. Not to mention the fourth generation nuclear, which is a utopia, yes, and wrong, because it is not healthy. It's just death. [[Applause]] Not to mention the extraction of national gas, which is so little that it doesn't really make us change the system. [[Applause]] We must have the courage to take decisive action on the system. We've taken some measures. Another can be achieved soon. We are debating here in the Senate a bill, on which we have tabled amendments to tax the extra profits of the big giants who buy and sell gas in Italy, to go from 10% taxation on extra profits to 25%. It is a measure that seems fair and correct to me. We release another EUR 6 billion available to citizens and businesses to alleviate the tragedy of the people who find themselves having to pay for this great heat, which is, once again, due to an unregulated system. Does it take more State? Probably, in some areas, yes, it takes more power than the state. Can the Italian State, however, do so alone? Maybe not. Perhaps we should start thinking that the states of Europe should really unite if they want to survive in the overall competition between the United States and China. [[Applause]] In fact, we are not dependent on one another or the other: we must be able to be Europe, Europe seriously, Europe for European people. We must not be children of such a globalised market that it has harmful effects. Once again, the circular economy can help us a lot; we can do a lot of things, I have already mentioned this once in this House. There are a number of things that Europe, which has no mines, can do, using the circular economy to bring out the materials that are used to produce the tools that enable European industry to be involved, seriously, forcefully and willingly. Our action remains always focused on the citizens and this must be done. Mr President, you pawn me if I say one last thing, even if perhaps out of the question: today would have been the birthday of Gino Strada. I had the chance to meet him and be with him in Afghanistan almost 20 years ago and I can only feel close to his way of being and thinking. Once again: war sucks; war hurts; we have to do everything we can to prevent it from continuing. [[Applause]] To do so, we must pursue only the interests of the people, who are the ones who suffer, not the leaders, nor the military, with all respect for all those who do that job and work in that field. [[Comments.]] We must think only of the people who suffer and those who suffer are always and only civilians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u55	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, by announcing the vote in favour of the measure on behalf of my Group, I would ask that I be able to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u58	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). There's nothing worse than a wrong joke than explaining it. Asking if you prefer the air conditioner on or peace is a joke impregnated with arrogance, presumption and lack of planning. Italy still buys gas every day from Putin's Russia. In Germany, entrepreneurs and trade unions have said that they do not want to give up Russian gas at all, and in Italy too, we cannot afford it under the current conditions. Not peace or air conditioners. You are the ones who ask Egypt for gas with a hat in your hand, and then the truth about Julius Regens can wait. I'd like to say, do you want the truth or the air conditioner? You understand that where there is energy, unfortunately, there are these strange games to play. Dragons must tell us if he wants to continue with the chatter or if he puts the money in it. An old joke said "hunt them deaf." Here, Mario, hunt the deaf! The money or you take it all now from the PNRR or ask for the budget deviation, there are no other solutions or other prestigious games. At the moment, I inform you that economic operators and families are not warning your interventions and the energy switch is not obtained from today to tomorrow, nor can it be downloaded on the family budget. We will finally understand what Europe is. The solution will not come from Europe. Europe has given no solution in any of the emergencies, indeed, it is in emergencies that has increased the gap between rich and poor: it is a superstructure in the hands of lobbyists and it gives nothing to citizens. That is why I hope that the account of this crisis should not be paid once again by workers and small entrepreneurs, so hurry up and put the real money, many and now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u59	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u60	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2588, of conversion to law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 17, 1 March 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber and in the vicinity of access to the Bureau. The senators for trust will answer yes, the opposing senators will answer no and the senators who wish to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Calandrini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Calandrini. PUGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2588, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 17 of March 1, 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 246 Senators voting 245 Majority 123 Favorable 207 Contrars 38]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 17 are therefore excluded. As already stated, I suspend the session which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.18 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u61	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and the Minister for Health will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Drago may explain the question 3-03267 on the closure of the Pfizer plant in Catania for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u62	Minister, in February 2022, the company Pfizer delivered a communication to the trade union representatives for a personnel reduction procedure, claiming that there would be 130 redundancies for permanent workers employed in the drug sector at the Pfizer plant in Catania. In 2018, during a meeting between the company and trade unions for the presentation of the industrial plan, the intention to transfer production was communicated. After a long silence, during which the disposal of a penicillinic production compartment took place, the company announced that it would undertake a process of personnel reduction, in order to compensate for the contraction of production volumes in the next three years. This statement would be contrary to the information also disseminated through the press of excellent investments for the site: in fact, the amount allocated (about 26 million euros) would not be sufficient to the adjustments required by Annex 1 (guidelines issued by the regulatory bodies for the production of medicines), therefore the investments would not concern the production lines. The site produces a non-penicillin antibiotic that sees its patent expired and therefore subject to competition from generic drugs. The employees involved in the event are 700, in addition to its induced, for a site with a productive history that has its roots in 1954 and boasts to have been a great example for Sicily. In the course of questions to the House, the Minister for Economic Development - together with you, Minister - in response to the questions, sharing the attention given to the delicate dispute, and also hoping that the crisis table opened by the Sicilian Region could, in some way, identify the appropriate solutions, expressed the greatest willingness, also in view of the measures recently introduced by the budget law that have implemented instruments for the redevelopment and resolution of transitional crises, with the aim of avoiding structural interruption of working relations. At these days' meetings at the headquarters of the Confindustria between trade union representatives and representatives of Pfizer, it would appear that about 30 workers would remain unprotected pending the dismissal operation scheduled for April 26. However, in addition to permanent workers, there are hundreds of fixed-term workers who would expect stabilisation and the total between the two contract categories would exceed 250 units, while the measures currently being assessed at the negotiating table are aimed at leading to early exit for those close to quiescence. It is asked to know which initiatives the Minister intends to take in order to ensure that the 30 workers destined for dismissal can be reabsorbed by the company; if he does not think it appropriate that Pfizer Italia ensures that the site of Catania permanends on the territory, through, for example, a reprogramming of the production line.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u63	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u64	Mr President, the interrogating senators pay attention to the employment situation at the Pfizer plant in Catania. The group, despite being a colossus of the pharmaceutical industry, has presented a plan of scaling down the plant in Catania that for the company would be determined - as has been said - by the decrease in the demand for the production volumes of certain drugs produced precisely in the Sicilian plant. The dispute to date has been followed at local level, with the convocation of a table by the Region. There were meetings between the actors involved; on 29 March the intercourse between the parties led to the granting of an extension for the conclusion of the administrative procedure relating to collective redundancies, which will therefore continue until 22 April next. On that occasion, however, a proposal was made by the company for economic compensation for dismissals equivalent to 54 months. A further meeting took place on 19 April last at the center for the employment of Catania and, according to the prefect, what was discussed by the economic negotiations did not lead to positive results. Therefore, a further meeting was scheduled on 26 April in order to conclude the dispute. I certainly share the concerns about the outcome of this dispute. The decision of the company impacts on an already highly critical socio-economic context, located in an area of the Mezzogiorno characterized by endemic fragility. I hope a final meeting on 26 April, with the commitment of all the parties, and that this can identify the most appropriate solutions to safeguard and relaunch the production site and protect the workers involved. I am aware that the trade union organizations have asked for the intervention of the competent minister, as an institutional interlocutor, to define the fate of the site in Catania. However, as Minister Giorgetti said recently, the dispute, under the regulations provided by the Ministry of Economic Development for the convening of national tables, falls within the regional dimension. In the event that the meeting of April 26 near the Region, however, does not have a positive result I assure the maximum availability of the Ministry of the job, in connection with the competent Ministry of the economic development, to favor the opening of a national table in order to characterize the most suitable solutions of the dispute, also in the light of the measures put in place by the Government with the law of budget, that they have implemented the tools for the management of the corporate crises, for the economic support, the requalification and the relocation of the workers involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u65	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Drago for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u66	Mr Minister, it is clear that I am partially satisfied, because there is perhaps an incorrect volcano. It turns out to me, being among other things of the territory, that the unions are working well at the table, also with the beneplacito and the presence of Confindustria and the referents of Pfizer in the territory. So the question, which follows on from others that have already been filed and discussed in the House, is precisely a clear and definitive request. Today is April 21st. On 26 April there is a risk that these workers will be fired. Since the accommodation could be reached for a hundred, at least the 30 remaining outside will be reabsorbed. There is no law here that holds, in the sense that the common sense of you, Minister, and of those involved, can also go in this direction. I would like to point out, however, that the narrative of the Sicilian Region that cannot handle and deal with such situations is not really correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u67	Senator Augussori has the right to explain the question 3-03270 on the continuation of measures to protect fragile workers from the risks arising from the Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately today is still not a good day for thousands of so-called fragile workers. This is because since March 31, with the just and sacrosanct cessation of the state of emergency, the safeguards put in place to preserve this category of people have also ceased. These are the safeguards provided for in Article 26 of Decree-Law No 18 of March 2020, the so-called care Italy. They concern employees, public and private, immunodepressed or with oncology or life-saving treatment, as well as those with the recognition of serious disability. I think you know them better than we do. Paragraph 2-a provides that they may carry out the work in agile mode also through the provision of a different job. The paragraph 2 has previewed that, for those for which it is impossible to activate the smart working, the absence from the service is allowed, not counted for the purposes of the period of composing. The two provisions have been extended several times. Finally, Decree-Law No 221 of last December extended its effects until 31 March 2022. These people have now been called back to work in the presence. Even if the state of emergency has ended, the Covid-19, however, has not disappeared and, as you know, we record even more than 50,000 infections every day. Exposing these people to travel by public transport and to the presence with colleagues and users puts them at serious risk, even considering that part of them is not vaccinated or, if it is, may not enjoy full antibody coverage. That is what all the virologists say: the more rightly we loosen the restrictions, the more we should protect those at risk, the older and fragile. Restoring the usual protections also means abandoning the list of super-raids of the interministerial decree of 4 February, a list that has never had a concrete application and it is good that you specify this, Minister, also because some public administrations are erroneously implementing it. Another issue related to the condition of fragile workers relates to the INPS sickness benefit only within pre-defined time limits. The right to receive the allowance must be recognised throughout the period of absence from service; so it has not been and many people have lived without receiving anything for months. Identical problems are also encountered for workers who have been recognized as temporarily unfit. We therefore ask you, Minister, what initiatives you intend to take in order to extend the protection of fragile workers until the development of the epidemiological situation so requires, to enable them to receive the sickness benefit throughout the period of absence from service and to extend these protections also to the unfit workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u69	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u70	Mr President, Senators, as you know, the Government has intervened several times in the course of the health emergency to extend the protection measures for fragile workers, in the knowledge that special protection was needed for workers most exposed to the risk of contagion. The protection of these workers, like other protection measures, has been anchored to the duration of the health emergency. The state of emergency, with the recent Decree-Law No 24 of 24 March 2022, for the overcoming of measures to combat the spread of the epidemic, has been extended the simplified procedures for the access to the smart working for the generality of the workers until 30 June and extended to the same date, for the fragile workers and also for those recognized temporarily unfit for work because of the Covid, the provisions concerning exceptional health surveillance. Because of the still uncertain development of the epidemiological situation, I certainly share the need for further action to protect those most at risk of the disease. This is why the Ministry of Labour has always supported measures to extend interventions to protect fragile workers. In Decree-Law No 221 of 2021, converted with amendments by Law No 11 of 18 February 2022, which extended to 31 March last the provisions of Article 26, paragraphs 2 and 2-a of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, we contributed to the realization of the intervention, making available all the current resources allocated to the estimate of the expenditure of the Ministry of Labour that, by effect, have been fully used. We proposed the inclusion of the extension of protection for fragile workers to 30 June 2022, but it was not possible to take such measures definitively under the new emergency measure for financial coverage problems. In the context of the conversion of Decree-Law No 24, we committed ourselves to supporting, with the expression of a favourable opinion, the amendments tabled by all the parliamentary groups to extend the protection measures for fragile workers. I trust that, in agreement with the other administrations involved, a suitable solution can be found to meet these primary protection needs and that, in conjunction with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the appropriate resources can be found. With regard to the request to extend these protections also to workers temporarily unfit for work for causes related to the epidemiological emergency, I note that, according to the current regulatory framework, these workers can be considered fragile also for the purposes of health protection, after the outcome of a medical assessment. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we have not, however, left these workers without protection, as in Decree-Law No 24 the measure provided for in Article 83 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2020 on the exceptional health surveillance of workers most exposed to the risk of contagion has been extended. Of course, I realize that this measure is not enough and that it would be desirable to have the necessary resources to give continuity to the safeguards that have already been given, but, as you know, there is no competence of this Ministry to beat currency, nor is there, of course, without an agreement of all the members of the Government, the possibility of producing a change of direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Augussori to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u71	Mr President, I am satisfied with the Minister's reply, because he has clearly focused the problem, he has explained to us what the problems are and he has also proposed possible solutions. It is clear that health surveillance, as he acknowledged, cannot be the solution, at least because not all workers can be used as smart working; therefore there are categories that, in case of necessity, have the need to take advantage of the absence from the service. The measure has a cost, which we estimated in about 70 million for the three months, but could also be higher. It's a problem, but it can't be the problem. [[Applause]] In these two years we have found resources for everyone, rightly and dutylessly, from restaurateurs to ski resorts, we have spent billions and you members of the government know this better than we parliamentarians. It is absurd not to be able to find 70 million, even 80, 90 or 100 for the most fragile and weak people. I invite you, during the conversion of the decree-law reopening that is under consideration by the House, to accept the amendment that restores the protections of Article 26 and not those of the list of superragiles that, as you know, is not enough because it excludes too many people. The invitation I make to you and your colleagues is to prove that you are a civilized country, worrying first of all of the weakest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u72	Senator Laniece has the option of explaining the 3-03268 question on podological care for diabetic foot patients for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u73	Mr President, Minister, the diabetic foot, a source of suffering for patients and an increase in important social costs, represents a complex clinical picture, at a high risk of amputation, which requires a multidisciplinary approach as quickly as possible. Among the figures that make up the diabetic foot care team, the national and international guidelines include the podologist as an indispensable element, able to intervene in the early stages of the pathology, identifying the clinical conditions that require specialized in-depth study and affecting the time and management costs. The same guidelines place the podiatrist in the three levels of diabetic foot management, where at the first level he assists the general medical doctor for capillary territorial assistance, while in the second and third levels he is included in a multidisciplinary team working in the acute phases of the pathology. Ministerial Decree No. 666 of 1994, which regulates the figure and the professional profile, provides that the podiatrist carries out his professional activity in public or private health structures under dependency or free-professional regime, assigning him a specific place in the prevention and education in subjects carrying diseases at risk. However, this picture of scientific evidence is not supported by the facts. Because of the absence of podological benefits within the national tariff nomenclator of the levels of assistance (LEA), the podolologist is absent from the team of management of diabetic foot throughout the Italian territory, except sporadic regional realities. Precisely in these territorial experimental projects, such as in Tuscany, this introduction has been positively assessed in terms of encouraging results with regard to the involvement of patients at risk. Given, finally, that mission 6, Health, of the PNRR has the objective to strengthen the prevention and the territorial assistance just where the diabetic pathology represents one of the major challenges and that, in a reorganization of the territorial health, a model of integration of the podiatrist in the territory will not be realized until the podiatrist performances will be present in the LEA, I ask you, Minister, if you are not aware of what described and if you do not think it necessary to insert the podiatrist benefits in the tariff nomenclator of the essential levels of assistance, in order to offer the diabetic population a more adequate take-over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u74	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Laniece for giving me the opportunity to touch on a subject that I consider important for the lives of many people. I begin by reminding you that the performance for diabetic foot care already falls within the essential levels of care, but you have to work to ensure that they are fully eligible. I want to reassure you that the state podiatrist can already support the basic doctor or be included in the multidisciplinary team that works in the acute stages of the pathology. Moreover, in the field of outpatient specialized assistance, notes, as well as known, the punctual list of services already defined at national level by Ministerial Decree 22 July 1996, subsequently updated with Annex 4 of the DCCM 12 January 2017, but not yet in force, pending the adoption of the decree defining the rates of the same services. In this regard, I would like to point out that the documentation for the updating of tariffs has been sent to the regions. Only at the time of approval in the State-Regions Conference will the benefits under consideration be guaranteed with homogeneity throughout the national territory. For my part, of course, I will go in exactly this direction. I would point out, however, that the grouping of services in specialist branches, carried out by the decree in question, has the sole purpose of regulating the participation at cost by the citizen and not of defining the competences of the professionals who perform the services and who can already be provided by the podologists who operate at the accredited public and private specialist clinics. I remember in any case that the plan for diabetic disease, approved in the State-Regions Conference in 2012 and transposed by all the autonomous regions and provinces, refers, within an integrated welfare model of taking charge for a complex pathology, to the need to involve other specialists, besides the diabeticologist, in the multidisciplinary team alongside other welfare figures. It also provides that problems related to diabetic foot prevention and treatment are included among the areas of improvement of diabetes care given the need for a multifactorial and multi-professional approach based on different care settings and levels of care intensity. Moreover, even the most authoritative recommendations, starting from the Italian standards for the treatment of diabetes mellitus of 2014, provide for the inclusion of podologists in the multi-professional team of diabetic foot prevention and care. Finally, I would like to point out that integration and cooperation between healthcare professionals are at the heart of the drafting document Models and standards for the development of territorial assistance in the National Health Service implementing the PNRR. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Laniece to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u75	Minister, I must say I am pleased with your reply. The aim of this initiative is not only to enhance a professional figure who, moreover, has carved out a peculiar space over the years. However, I believe that inserting it fully into the Public Health Service, healing a vulnus, we are going to increase the quality of taking charge, especially as regards the prevention of diabetic patients suffering from a disease as complicated and impacting as the diabetic foot. All this in a vision, which I am pleased you have reminded several times, necessarily multidisciplinary and modern of the organization of all the health figures involved in the treatment of this pathology. I will follow closely in the coming weeks what you have already announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u76	Senator Parente has the right to explain the question 3-03271 on the breakdown of deceased patients and positive results at Covid-19 for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u77	Mr President, Minister, yesterday there were still 205 deaths for Covid. We know that the Italian vaccination campaign went very well. We have more than 39 million vaccinated citizens and citizens, and the gradual nature with which we have reopened has also been a model throughout Europe. Mr Minister, we also appreciate your personal caution at this stage on the issue, for example, of indoor masks. Yesterday we were talking about DEF; this vaccination campaign allowed Italy, first in Europe, to have a 6% increase in GDP. We have learned from this epidemic that without health there is neither economy nor work. Precisely because we have to live with this virus and we have a wide spread of the variants of the Covid, I think it is necessary at this stage to give timely information to citizens and citizens. So we ask you, Minister, if you do not think it is appropriate to disseminate a document of daily dissemination, with broken down data, to understand and to know the prevalence of variants in the deceased from SARS-CoV-2, the presence of comorbidity, that is, what pre-existing diseases had the deceased, and the number of cases of deaths and admissions in intensive care for Covid infections, differentiated by vaccine status (i.e. if they made one, two or three doses) and age class. Of course, we know that there is a very timely report from the Higher Institute of Health, but what we are asking you to do is to make an extra effort to disseminate it. The fundamental question is whether he believes that he is giving information in favour of citizenship.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u78	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u79	Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Parente for her attention to an issue of absolute interest to the Ministry of Health and I also believe in our public opinion. By the way, allow me to share that I agree very much with the statements you made in the beginning of this statement: it is true that we are no longer in a state of emergency since 31 March, but the pandemic is certainly not over. It is true that our vaccination campaign is objectively, numbers in hand, among the best and most effective at European and global level, but it is also true that it has not ended. Just a few weeks ago, our health authorities, in line with the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, and the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, recommended a further reference to people over the age of 80, RSA residents and people of particular fragility between the ages of sixty and seventy-nine. So we need to continue our vaccination campaign. The decree of 24 March confirmed the important activity and monitoring task that, according to our institutional system, sees as the central element of coordination the Higher Institute of Health. Allow me, here, to express deep and heartfelt gratitude to all the workers of the Higher Institute of Health, to all the researchers and to President Brusaferro, for the extraordinary work they have done in these difficult months at the service of our country. One of the fundamental issues of our strategy of contrasting with Covid was the constant relationship between the institutions and our scientific world, our scientific community. Monitoring takes place with different tools. The daily data clearly takes place on aggregated data and on essential data, which are communicated on a daily basis. Then there is a weekly monitoring, also managed by the Higher Institute of Health, much more complex, where there are also many numbers related to vaccinations. On the more specific issue of deaths and mortality, which is the subject of the question. I would like to draw attention to an important work which has been done so far seven times and which is the result of cooperation between the Higher Institute of Health and Istat. The last published report dates back to March 2 and is precisely the seventh since the beginning of the pandemic. Inside that report are all the data that, in some way, were requested by the question. However, I assure you that we will continue our monitoring work in this context and that we will pay close attention to the proposals you have put forward in the question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Senator Parente to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. I am reassured by your last sentence, because we need to give, as you say in the question, certain, certain and above all understandable data. Of course, I too agree with your words and I thank all the workers and workers of the Higher Institute of Health and Mr Brusafero. However, very often these tables are not available to the citizen or the average citizen. We need to figure out what's going on. I take a trivial example: out of the 205 deaths yesterday, how many were vaccinated with the first dose, how many with the second dose, how many had other pathologies and what was their age? At this stage of coexistence - as you also said - we need to make a great alliance with the population, also because it is necessary to resume normal health activity - I know how much you spend on this point - for all neglected pathologies. So we also need to understand who is crowded with intensive therapies, so that health care can resume its normal activity and not neglect anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u81	Senator Biti has the right to explain the question 3-03269 on the benefits for psychotherapeutic services, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u82	Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the first time in person publicly in the Senate House for the work you, together with your Ministry, have done to bring to the bottom the approval, in the so-called thousand-pronge decree, of the amendment that commits some resources to support those who have a mental discomfort, a momentary discomfort, also due to the very difficult period that we are living. The amendment approved in the decree-milleproroghe law clearly specified that its Ministry, together with other ministries, would have to express itself within thirty days with an implementing decree to give the lines and explain to the best how to be able to access the resources allocated in the milleproroghe. I remember it was 20 million, ten of which were for the therapist bonus. We can discuss whether the term is appropriate or not, but surely what we intended and intend to give is a targeted and quick help to those in need of psychological support at this time. As I said, this is 10 million for 2022 with a maximum amount of 600 euros per person, of course compared to the different ISEE bands (which must not exceed 50,000 euros). All this is thought to help about 16,000 people. Considering that the cost of a sitting is around 50 euros, twelve sessions would be guaranteed to start a path that can already give an answer or support to those who have difficulties. In today's time issue, we ask you, Minister, what are the initiatives that the Ministry is putting in place to arrive as soon as possible to understand how people can access these resources. I would also ask you to clarify the two words in the text. There is talk of an order of psychotherapists, but it does not actually exist; instead, there is an order of psychologists. Since there is some confusion about this, I believe that in the decree it would be appropriate to try to make people understand better who can turn to receive such support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members not only for the question, but also for the parliamentary work which has laid the foundations for this initiative. I personally voted in favour of the budget law, and I also voted in favour of the amendment to the so-called'multi-pronged' decree-law. I have personally followed this initiative which I agree with. I would like to remind you that the interministerial decree signed also by the MEF is now in the right of arrival. Allow me to thank the INPS, with which we have done a rather constant and articulated job, which will offer the portal for bookings and which will be the paying subject compared to the professionals who will become available. I also want to thank the National Council of the Order of Psychologists, because it has made an important contribution and is working clearly on the involvement of professionals who will have to make themselves available for the use of this bonus. The interlocation, as I said, has been articulated, involving also the Regions, which are part of this triangulation, and of course the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The text was transferred to the MEF on 14 April. As soon as it arrives - we hope this can arrive in the next few days - we will proceed to the signing and finally the implementing decree will be approved and you can start. The mechanism we have identified will allow access to the contribution without charge or anticipation by the person who wants to take advantage of the bonus. This same person will be able to choose freely the professional among those who of course have joined the initiative. Allow me to say that mental health is a great issue that we must deal with. This initiative goes in the right direction, but I say with absolute clarity that it will certainly not be enough and that mental health is a crucial issue that can certainly not be addressed only with the logic of bonuses. Let me remind you that in the last budget law we have put in place some additional instruments. As many as 38 million euros have been financed in budget law: 20 million euros for the psychological distress of children and adolescents, which will turn into staff recruitment to assist these people, 10 million euros for the access to psychological services of weaker groups, in particular cancer patients, and 8 million euros for the strengthening of territorial and hospital services of child and adolescent neuropsychiatry. As evidence of the attention of the Government, I would also like to remind you that next autumn, precisely in Rome, the World Conference on Mental Health will take place: after the editions of Amsterdam, London and Paris we will host it in Rome, precisely to give a sense of maximum commitment on a topic that we consider crucial for the future of the National Health Service. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Biti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u84	Minister, it is indeed a pleasure for me to be able to say that we are fully satisfied with your answer and also to know that we are really so close. Minister, we also thank you for explaining to us how the measure will be implemented and how these important resources can be used. I use the time that remains to say that, like you, we think that the theme of mental health is so priority in our country, that this bonus is not and has never claimed to be decisive. We have used it to light a little light on this issue and the Democratic Party is at its side, with draft laws and legislative proposals, some of which have come to the bottom, including through amendments to the budgetary maneuver: in this regard I address my colleague, Senator Boldrini, who has been the bearer of many instances. Minister, we are therefore at your side in order to ensure that the national health system is ever stronger from this point of view, because we are the first to be aware that such a measure is fundamental and helps a great deal now, but that the issue of mental health, such as physical health, must always and constantly be treated and must become a priority. Minister, thank you again and good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u85	Senator De Falco has the right to explain the question 3-03265 on the measures to implement the national pandemic plan, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u86	Minister, thank you for coming here to answer these now ancient questions, the first of which dates back to 1 April 2020, the second to July 2020, always in urgent oral response, while the third is in written response. The questions arise from the fact that in March 2020, from press reports of the Daily Newspaper, we learn of the existence of a national plan of preparation and response to the pandemic. However, there is no trace of this plan in the acts of government, in any act of government, even in the statement of emergency of 31 January 2020. Yet the plan was trivially traceable and visible on the Internet site, which was then told by Deputy Minister Sileri. The plan provided for and provides for stages and levels of danger and for each phase or level there is a series of requirements, beginning with the so-called inter-pandemic period: I am talking about the period between one pandemic and the other, that is, when everything is quiet. During that period, the plan provides for a series of obligations, namely: procurement of materials, personal protective equipment, verification of sanitization and disinfection devices, procedures, separate routes for suspect patients, especially chain of command and then division of responsibility between State, Regions and Municipalities, then census of the structures and beds of intensive and sub-intensive care and ventilation devices, etc. In the presence, then, in successive phase, of the interhuman transmission, that is, with the passage from the animal to the man of the virus, that 10 January 2020 happens, the adaptation of supplyings and eventual restrictions of displacements from and to nations in which there are the clusters are previewed. Still, even before the emergency, we have the evaluation of the closure of schools and other places of community. At this point, the question of non-use of the pandemic plan was put to the press at 6.30 p.m., where Extraordinary Commissioner Borrelli replied that a plan had to be drawn up for each pathogen. It is absurd: this signals a confusion of very dangerous ideas, as if for every ship that is about to sink needed a rescue plan, for each person according to his age and for every weather condition. In other words, to impossible nemo tenetur. You all have to die. Are you kidding me? The issue was then discussed on 21 April 2020 in the newspaper "Corriere della sera" with the interview with the Director General Urbani, who talks about a further plan created on 20 January, but secret, also in the operational procedures to be communicated to the population. So, a totally useless plan. Let me turn to the questions and finish. Minister, were you unaware of the existence of the plan at the time? Was the plan in force or had it been repealed (and by what act)? In any case, why has the plan not been taken into account at least as a manual? Why has this not been taken into account in terms of supplies, the census of structures and the operation of the chain of command? Finally, is there the so-called secret plan that Urbani was talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u87	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator De Falco for coming back to a subject we have discussed on many occasions. I have had the opportunity to clarify personally on many occasions all the issues of this affair. It is clear that three minutes is certainly not enough. What I want to reiterate is that the plan you refer to, which the institutions were obviously aware of, was, as you know, not up to date. There were seven governments that had not updated the plan. The government I was then part of - the Government Count 2 - then worked to update the plan, which today has been clearly updated. This happened on January 25, 2021 with the approval at the State-Regions Conference, after a long work of elaboration, for which I thank our technicians, and also of coordination with the Regions. Some parts of the current plan have certainly been used (I am thinking of the same programming as the emergency state that was foreseen in the previous plan). However, there is an important fact on which I would like our attention to be focused and which is the real novelty. The Decree-Law of 24 March 2022, No 24, finally creates the conditions so that in the future our country can be more ready in a structural and organic way. With this decree, which will now be under discussion in the two branches of Parliament, we transfer functions and tasks of the commissioner's structure, which was the focus of emergency management, to the Ministry of Health, where will be born a direction for the preparation that will give the country what - alas - was missing then, that is an organized group having as its first fundamental objective the management of a possible health emergency. What does history tell us? Italy had an important tradition of emergency management (civil protection itself is a piece of the country we are proud of), but built essentially on emergencies of different nature, linked to earthquakes or floods. What was missing was a permanent and structured expertise linked to the management of the health emergency. Well, the choice we made with the last decree-law that will lead to the birth of a management at the Ministry of Health linked to preparedness with the recruitment of professionals, technicians, personalities and clearly connected with the scientific world, will lead us to solve this problem in a structured way that I consider absolutely central. On the level I have already told you: what has not been done by seven governments was then done by this Government. I would like to thank the people who have worked on it, who in a few months have achieved exactly the plan that was missing and that was not up to date, which serves to deal with situations like this and future situations that we hope will not happen, but that remain possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Falco to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u88	Mr Minister, I am absolutely dissatisfied, as are all Italians, with your answer. This was not only a bureaucratic fulfillment (and therefore the emergency declaration) but also to secure the Italians in the inter-pandemic phase, or at least between 31 January and 20 February, the date of the first decree (the number 6). No procurement was done, as well as no census and no implementation of the procedures. How, then, can you say, Minister, that the plan has been implemented? That the Ministry knew him when his deputy minister, Sileri, on a television show said he had no news? So your answer is profoundly disappointing, and not only from a parliamentary and political point of view, but also from a human point of view, Minister, and I stress that. You can't come out now saying we have the plan; you know what we have? A plan which, in order for it to be implemented, takes two more years. We don't have anything. We have absolutely nothing. Mr Minister, what you are saying is very serious because the situation we were in in 2020 worries us how we could now - but we are not really able to - deal with any new pandemic waves, with that same indolence. At the press point there was not only the technician Borrelli, but there was also Locatelli, the technical-scientific committee. This new Directorate-General of yours called preparedness is the same as it was called prevention; there was, it had an Italian name, wasn't it okay? Mr. Minister, you didn't do anything beyond chatter. I repeat, then, that I will call for a Commission of Inquiry into what has happened in the management of the Covid.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u89	Senator Saccone has the right to explain the question 3-03274 on the modernisation measures of the National Health Service provided for by the PNRR, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u90	Minister, as you know, unfortunately, the war in Ukraine has an important and significant impact on our economy. Just yesterday we approved in this House the DEF, in which all the main economic indicators were revised downwards, starting with GDP. Of course, we have the doubt, the problem, the concern about how much this war, unfortunately caused by President Putin's invasion of a sovereign state, that is, Ukraine, affects the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, particularly on the health issue. A supply of almost EUR 15 billion for health, as much as 8% of the total, with two major objectives. I called it a sort of Copernican health revolution in Italy; thanks to the solidarity of the European Union we may finally be able to change the face of health, starting from its structures, from telemedicine, from innovation to the digitisation of the National Health Service. Well, Minister, after so many years of reduced services, removal of hospital facilities (neighbourhood facilities), perhaps we can finally reverse and reverse the course. You know better than I that the World Health Organization is talking about the famous 20 minutes in which to intervene to save a patient's life. As you well know, unfortunately, in recent years those twenty minutes have been a chimera for many communities of our country, not only of the metropolitan area, but of course also of the mountainous areas. So this is an opportunity to invest in this plan, in which 381 community hospitals are expected by the middle of 2026: an important measure that can go towards the objective of giving a health protection to those who do not live near a hospital. Another issue, Minister, is digitisation and telemedicine. There is talk of a doubling of home care: almost 1.5 million people over sixty-five can be home cared for. I do not want to go into detail; I do not hide that there is some perplexity about the number, given the differences of treatment of an organizational nature between the various regions. In conclusion, Minister, we would like to ask you what the impact of the war on the PNRR is, and secondly, how the 80,000 refugees - including the Italian solidarity of the third sector, including Catholic voluntary associations, are being treated from the point of view of health: what kind of assistance we offer them, from vaccination to any form of prophylaxis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u91	Mr President, I thank the interrogators. I share the initial sense of the assessments that have been offered. We are facing a great opportunity to change the face of our National Health Service. After two years of pandemics, which have put us in enormous difficulty, we finally have unprecedented resources. Where do these resources come from? It is not just European funds: the National Health Fund has also increased very significantly. When I became Minister, in September 2019, there were 114 billion euros in the National Health Fund, equal to the amount of all the resources that the State invests on the health of our country. On average, one billion euros a year was put in it, even something less. Today, after two and a half years, there are 124 billion in the National Health Fund itself: 10 billion in three laws of stability is a result that has never been seen before. In addition to this money, ordinary resources, there are the 20 billion Next generation funds: not only the PNRR, but also the React-EU and the Complementary Fund. Again, let me remind you of the 625 million for the health NAP, for which I would particularly like to thank Mr Carfagna for the work he has done. For the first time in the history of European programming there will be a NAP dedicated to reducing the differences between North and South precisely in the field of health. This is a great opportunity, which we must absolutely try to achieve. On the money of the PNRR, at this moment I can report that a very tight job is being done with the Regions. At this time, all the deadlines we had planned are met and there are no elements that suggest that the conflict in Ukraine could change the roadmaps and the substantive objectives that we had put in place. Clearly, we will continue to monitor the evolution and we will also have to understand this conflict how it will evolve and what repercussions, more generally, will have on our country. As for vaccinations, the other topic that touched on the question, I would like to report that, from the very first days, the Ministry of Health issued a circular, clearly shared with the scientific community and the Regions, giving indications to promote the maximum vaccination of the entire population coming in escape from the Ukrainian conflict. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian population has a rather low percentage of coverage, below 40%. Therefore, it is not only about vaccination against Covid-19, but also against diphtheria, tetanus, cough, polio, measles, mumps and rubella. I can assure the interrogators and the House that we will continue our work of maximum monitoring compared to this health element.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u92	Senator Saccone has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u93	Mr Minister, as the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, we are pleased with your reply. We appreciate the effort you are making in this dramatic situation, in the devastating situation of the pandemic and war. I stress that there is still too much inequality of treatment of our fellow citizens from Region to Region. In some regions the system works better, while in other regions, to book a diagnostic, you have to move even 150 kilometers from the place where you live. Our hope is that this money will be aimed at eliminating the inequality of treatment between Italian citizens, through remodulation and reorganization. Another issue, Minister, concerns staff. In too many regions there is no optimization of staff resources: so, in one region, you can do a diagnostic on Saturday afternoon and, in another, you can do diagnostics all week, from 7 to 12.30. Our hope is that these funds will really eliminate all forms of inequality. The last issue is telemedicine: an ambitious objective. The target in the plan is 200,000 people assisted in telemedicine. This is another area on which the Government must focus its attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u94	Senator Pisani Giuseppe has the power to explain the question 3-03272 on the development of a health model oriented to environmental and climate risks, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u95	Mr President, Minister, in mission 6, on health and health, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, component C1, is planned, in addition to the right measures for the territory, for the enhancement of territorial medicine and primary care medicine, also a measure of no secondary importance. For this reason we thank you for your work and also for the acceptance of the proposal that we have made that concerns the next institution of the National System of Health Prevention, which will have to act in synergy with the National System of Environmental Prevention, already established by Law No 132 of 2016, in order to realize the concept of single health, that is, unique health of the environment, of men and animals, and obviously implement those strategies of prevention, above all, and of contrast to the important issues posed by serious environmental problems, in particular from pollution. It is known that pollution, the damage that man causes to the environment, inevitably affects man himself, because there is no health of humans and animals in an environment that is not healthy. An altered, unhealthy and polluted environment cannot guarantee the health of men, and this is unfortunately a concept that is still difficult to get into the minds of many individuals, especially of some heads of state - let me say this - that unfortunately do not understand how important respect for our environment is. Aware of the importance of environmental protection, I put this question in order to know how and when your Ministry will want to implement this task. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u96	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator, who allows me to touch on a subject that I consider particularly crucial, as well as on the sensitivity he has often expressed on the connection between environmental and health issues. An important awareness of the link between health policies and environmental policies has now developed globally and in a well-established way, starting with the WHO guidelines. It is in essence the one health strategy, to which Senator Pisani also referred. I personally believe very much in this strategy, that is, in the idea that human health, animal health and the health of the environmental ecosystem in which we live are not distinct, but are only one health, in fact one health. I think this is a good strategy, and we must invest with great courage and we have started to do so in the PNRR. In the last decree-law, approved last week in the Council of Ministers and which is in some way implementing the measures of the PNRR - it is in fact called the PNRR decree - we formally established, therefore by state law, the National Health Prevention System against environmental and climate risks. What will be the fundamental objective? Today we have an environmental monitoring network and a health monitoring and prevention network; these two networks, however, do not speak to each other, they are not interconnected. The underlying operation that we try to do with the double action decree and PNRR is to put into system, integration. This means, for example, that the prevention departments will have to talk to the Regional Environmental Protection Agencies (ARPA) and that the Higher Institute of Health will have to work with the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). We therefore need our network, which already exists and is of quality, to be increasingly interconnected. As far as resources are concerned, we clearly start with the PNRR, which, as is well known, represents an ad hoc, one-off investment, built within the 20 billion health plan referred to, namely mission 6. Half a billion is not small, it is a very significant figure; I think it is valuable and very important resources, which will enable us to start our integration and system work. There is no doubt that it will then be necessary in the coming years, at the end of the PNRR experience, to work again to invest in this sector with ordinary funds that will have to be permanent and will enable us to speak forcefully of an area that I consider particularly strategic for our present, but especially for our future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pisani Giuseppe has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u97	Mr President, I sincerely thank Mr Hope and I am very pleased with your reply, which essentially corresponds to our expectations. As a former operator in the field, I say that this synergy between regional and provincial ARPA systems and prevention departments is lacking. I therefore hope that this problem can be overcome. At the same time, allow me to make an exhortation to the Minister, as Mr Saccone said just now, to ensure that adequate human and technological resources are provided and that staff on both sides are completed, that is, health structures, prevention departments, as has rightly been said, and the provincial sections of ARPA. In many regions, in fact, the staff are absolutely insufficient and in some they are even less than half of the planned one and this absolutely does not allow an efficient control and monitoring of workplaces and living environments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u98	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u101	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to make an appeal in this House on the issue of environmental protection. Today UN Secretary-General Guterres said that we are traveling at high speed towards a climate disaster and that we will double the level and a half of global warming; certain governments and businessmen say one thing and do another, said simply, are lying. These strong words come after the publication of the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), an important study on the state of our planet. Colleagues, we must all realize that we are in a climate emergency. In these years we in the Movimento 5 Stars have been called populists, ideologists, we have also been ridiculed in this House when we were talking about renewables, energy communities, energy efficiency, air pollution and our mirrors of water, and now we urgently need to talk about these issues. The same scientists to whom we have entrusted our lives over the past two years are telling us that we are in an emergency and that we must deal with this situation before it is too late. Today, with the pandemic and a war on our doorstep, we must be resilient and act to deal with this emergency as well. Government, Regions, Municipalities and Businesses must work in synergy with citizens, who even in the most difficult times have shown to carry out environmental demands. We need to follow up the constitutional change that has included environmental protection in our Charter; we need to triple our efforts and invest; we need to protect our forests, we need sustainable mobility; we need to consume responsibly, we need to focus on the circular economy and protect our pollinating insects; we need to react urgently and concretely. Every new measure, every amendment of ours must be aimed at this epochal change and we legislators have a great responsibility. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u104	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to talk about the forgotten sector of private supervision, a category of workers that is often neglected, yet it has an important role to play, namely to ensure the safety and protection of citizens, businesses, businesses and even institutions, delicate places such as ports and airports, and often do so alongside our forces of order. I'm talking about a category that often finds itself working in extreme working conditions, outdoors, day, night, with bulletproof vest, with the obligation to be armed. I am talking about an army of 87,000 in our country, whose pay is one of the lowest in Europe. The national collective labour agreement presents a completely inadequate wage, below the poverty line, as also stated by the labour courts of Milan and Turin that have stated that these wages are absolutely incompatible with the quantity and quality of the work they carry out and in stark contrast to Article 36 of the Constitution. Mr President, we, our country, cannot be held to be civilised if we allow wages of EUR 3, 4, 5 per hour, or forty hours per week with wages of EUR 400 per month without a shred of training. They are workers and workers who often work all day because they are forced to do more work to bring a plate to the table. In the Commission I work, President, like Movimento 5 Stars, we have presented a bill signed by Senator Nunzia Catalfo, former Minister of Labour, which talks about minimum wages, but which is still there in that Commission "with the four arrows." In fact, there is not the will of the other political comrades, from the centre-left to the centre-right, to carry on the work, discussion and approval of a text that would restore dignity not only to the category of workers I have mentioned, that of private supervision, but also to many other categories, such as textiles, cleaning companies and social welfare. Well, that's all there is to it, I hope. I therefore appeal to the political forces of this Parliament and the Commission to work to achieve that work, to adopt the bill on guaranteed minimum wage, which is nothing but about dignity and freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u105	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-426.ana.u106	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 26 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.08 p.m.
