ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.41 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u3	I communicate that on 24 February 2022 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law with amendments to Decree-Law No. 1 of 7 January 2022 on urgent measures to deal with the emergency COVID-19, in particular in workplaces, schools and institutions of higher education" (2542).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. I remember that live television with Rai is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the night between Wednesday and Thursday, the Russian Federation launched a massive offensive against Ukraine. The attack took place immediately after a message with which President Putin announced a special targeted operation in eastern Ukraine, and was preceded by a widespread cybernetic attack that paralysed Ukrainian government sites. The invasion took on a large and growing scale. The Russian land forces entered Ukrainian territory from North-East, North, South-East and from the south coast, and was closed to navigation the Azov Sea, isolating the ports of Mariupol and Berdyansk. We have seen widespread explosions, including in the Lviv region, the closest to the border with the European Union. Russian amphibian forces have landed in Odessa, the main port city, where there are reports of many victims. The Russian army continues with missile launches on the main cities, including those of central-western Ukraine. A rain of missiles fell last night on Kiev, while the army besieged various cities along the road between the border and the city. The Russian army has taken control of the Chernobyl nuclear power station area. Ukraine counts so far - but they are already old - 137 soldiers killed and 316 wounded since the beginning of the attack, and speaks of 800 men lost by Russian forces, who have not yet provided data on the victims of the invasion (but this is not correct because this morning the Russian spokesman provided data on the losses). The offensive has already tragically affected the Ukrainian population: the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior has civilian casualties. The images we see, of unarmed citizens forced to hide in bunkers and metropolitans, are terrible and bring us back to the darkest days of our history. There are long rows of cars leaving Kiev and other Ukrainian cities, especially towards the border with the European Union. A large influx of refugees to neighbouring European countries is possible and likely. Ukrainian President Zelensky affirmed the determination of the Ukrainian authorities to resist and respond to Russian fire, and to break diplomatic relations with Moscow. Last night he issued a decree that provides a general mobilization of all men between the eighteen and sixty years of age, who were forbidden to leave the country. Operations are likely to prolong until the destruction of the Ukrainian defensive system. The Russian Government has put forward a proposal for direct negotiations with the Ukrainian Government, and confirmed that the objective is to neutralize and demilitarize - and added 'denazify' - Ukraine. There is no Ukrainian match on this. The Italian embassy in Kiev is open, fully operational, and maintains relations with the Ukrainian authorities, in coordination with other embassies, also to protect resident Italians. The embassy remains on high alert and is ready for any decision. We have already moved the staff to a safer place. The approximately 2,000 fellow countrymen present were advised to follow the directions of the local authorities and to evaluate with extreme caution the movements by land inside and outside the country. In the light of the closure of airspace and the critical situation on the ground, we are planning, in coordination with the EU's main embassies, a safe evacuation. I want to thank Ambassador Pier Francesco Zazo and all the embassy staff for the professionalism, dedication and courage they are demonstrating in these hours. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank Minister Di Maio, the diplomats and all the staff of Farnesina for their unceasing commitment. [[Applause]] Italy strongly condemns the invasion, which we consider unacceptable. The attack is a serious violation of the sovereignty of a free and democratic state, international treaties and the most fundamental European values. I want to express, once again, the solidarity of the Italian people and government with the Ukrainian people and with President Zelensky. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]] The return of war to Europe cannot be tolerated. However, the agenda for Russia and its President is vast, complex and long premeditated. I have the feeling that I am only at the beginning of a profound change in international relations. What is under discussion is the international order that was built at the end of the Second World War: that system of relations that has accompanied us in this long period of overall growth, prosperity and progress. It is this system that is being called into question today. To everything that happened Italy reacted immediately: we called yesterday morning to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation the ambassador of the Russian Federation; we called Moscow to cease the offensive and withdraw the forces unconditionally; we reiterated the full Italian support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. Also yesterday morning I spoke with the various European leaders: President Macron, Chancellor Scholz, President of the European Council Michel, President of the European Commission von der Leyen. I shared with them the firm condemnation of an unjustified, unprovoked attack against Ukraine. In the early afternoon we met with the other leaders of the G7 and adopted a declaration of firm condemnation of the Russian aggression, a call to cease hostilities and a return to negotiations. On yesterday's evening I attended the extraordinary European Council, which was also attended by President Zelensky, during which the European Union expressed its condemnation of Russia and Belarus. I must tell you that the connection with the present Zelensky was truly dramatic: it is hidden somewhere in Kiev and clearly said that it had no time to be with us, that Ukraine no longer has time and that he himself and his family are targets of the invasion forces. It was a very dramatic moment, which struck all the participants in the European Council. As I said, the European Union on that occasion expressed its condemnation of Russia and Belarus, which is a fully-fledged partner in the invasion that Russia has made. Today's afternoon I will be attending a NATO summit to coordinate the strengthening of the eastern flank and reaffirm the principles underlying our position. As far as the bilateral plan is concerned, we are defining a EUR 110 million package for financial aid to Ukraine for humanitarian and macro-financial stabilisation purposes, because in the meantime the entire economic and social fabric of Ukraine has been destroyed. This result certainly has already reached Putin: the capitals have all fled, the economy does not work, the technicians and the ruling class have disappeared; there has been an imposing exodus towards the neighbouring countries: in essence, I repeat, the economic and social fabric of Ukraine no longer exists. As part of our defence, assistance measures are being put in place, particularly in the field of mine clearance and the provision of protective equipment. The Italian Government has always hoped, together with its international partners, to resolve the crisis peacefully and through diplomacy. However, any dialogue must be sincere and, above all, it must be useful. Russia's violence this week makes this kind of dialogue impossible. Our priority today must be to strengthen the security of our continent and apply maximum pressure on Russia to withdraw its troops and return to the negotiating table. From a military point of view, NATO has already activated. Yesterday the North Atlantic Council met, on the basis of Article 4 of the Washington Treaty, and approved five gradual response plans which, at this first stage, aim to consolidate the posture of deterrent to the East. The next steps, linked to an evolution of the scenario, provide for the assumption of a posture of defence and, subsequently, of re-establishment of security. The plans include two fundamental aspects: the increase of forces deployed in allied territory, with the transit of military units under the chain of command and control of the Allied Supreme Commander in Europe, and the use of engagement rules prepared for immediate engagement. The Italian forces that we expect to be employed by NATO are units already deployed in the area of operations - about 240 men currently deployed in Latvia, together with naval forces and aircraft in Romania - and others that will be activated at the request of the Allied Command. For these we are ready to contribute with about 1,400 men and women of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and with additional 2,000 military available. The forces will be deployed in NATO's area of responsibility and there is no implicit authorization to cross borders. Italy and NATO want to send a message of unity and solidarity to the Ukrainian cause and defence of the European security architecture. I want to thank Minister Guerini and our armed forces for their promptness and preparation. [[Applause. Assembly and government representatives stand]] With regard to sanctions, Italy is perfectly in line with the other countries of the European Union, first of all France and Germany. The measures have been coordinated with our G7 partners, with whom we fully share strategy and objectives. On Wednesday, the first restrictive measures against Russia were formally approved, in relation to the decision - this is the initial phase - to recognise the independence of the territories of Donetsk and Lugansk. The measures consist of a ban on imports and exports from separatist entities, on the basis of what was done in 2014 at the time of the illegal invasion and annexation of Crimea. They also consist of economic and financial sanctions to Russia, such as the prohibition of the refinancing of sovereign debt on the secondary market and the freezing of assets of three banking institutions; targeted sanctions against individuals and entities, such as the more than 300 members of the Duma who proposed the recognition of the separatist territories and who voted in favour. Following the Russian invasion of the past few days, at yesterday's European Council we approved other much more stringent and incisive measures, which have been in preparation for weeks. I would like to thank the President and the Commission's offices for this preparation, because it has been an extremely complex and coordinated work with all the other allies of the G7. The relevant legislative acts are discussed at this time in Brussels, so I can only give a partial account of their content. These will be finalized very quickly (I believe today), however Tuesday I will return to the topic. These sanctions include financial measures, such as the prohibition of refinancing for banks and public enterprises in Russia, the blocking of new bank deposits from Russia to European Union credit institutions; measures on the energy sector, aimed at preventing the transfer of advanced technologies usually used in refining; measures in the transport sector, such as the export ban extended to all goods, technologies, services intended for the aviation sector; a blocking of financing for new investments in Russia and other export control measures; the suspension of visa facilitation agreements for Russian diplomatic passports and service. We also expect a second package, including members of the Duma not yet sanctioned. These days the European Union has demonstrated its determination, its compactness. We are ready for even tougher measures if these do not prove sufficient or proportionate to the drama that is taking place these days. The sanctions that we have approved and the sanctions that we will be able to approve in the future require us to consider very carefully their impact on our economy. [[Applause]] The biggest concern is the energy sector, which has already been hit by the increases in recent months. About 45% of the gas we import comes from Russia, rising from 27 percent about ten years ago. The events of these days demonstrate the imprudence of not having more diversified our energy sources and our suppliers in recent decades. [[Applause]] In Italy we have reduced gas production from 17 billion cubic meters per year in 2000 to about three billion cubic meters in 2020, compared to a national consumption that has remained constant, between 70 and 90 billion cubic meters. We must move forward on the diversification front in order to overcome our vulnerability as soon as possible and avoid the risk of future crises. The Government is constantly monitoring gas flows, in close coordination with the European institutions. We have brought together the Gas Emergency Committee several times to regulate and analyse operational data and possible scenarios. Italian storage facilities benefit from having had a better situation at the beginning of the winter than in other European countries and, also thanks to the quality of the infrastructure we have, the level of filling had reached 90% at the end of October, while the other European countries were around 75%. Storages were then used at full rate and in February they already reached the level they generally had at the end of March. This situation, which would have been more serious in the absence of adequate infrastructure and policies, is similar to that of other European countries, including Germany. The end of winter and the arrival of milder temperatures allow us to look more confidently at the coming months, but we must take action to further improve our storage capacity for the coming years. Italy is also committed to pushing the European Union in the direction of common storage mechanisms, which help all countries to cope with moments of temporary reduction in supplies. We hope that this crisis will finally speed up a positive response on this issue. However, the Government is working to prepare all the necessary measures to better manage a possible energy crisis. We hope that these plans will not be necessary, but we cannot be found unprepared. Emergency measures include greater flexibility in gas consumption, industrial suspensions and rules on gas consumption in the thermoelectric sector, where there are also measures to reduce the load. The Government is also working to increase alternative supplies. We intend to increase liquefied natural gas imported from other routes, such as the United States. U.S. President Biden has offered his willingness to support allies with more supplies and I want to thank him for that. However, our capacity to use is limited by the small number of regasifiers that are in operation today. For the future, we should also consider these infrastructures. [[Applause]] The Government then intends to work to increase flows from non-full-load pipelines, such as the TAP from Azerbaijan, the Transmed from Algeria and Tunisia and the Greenstream from Libya. The reopening of coal-fired power stations may be necessary in order to fill any shortcomings in the immediate future. The government is ready to intervene to further calm the price of energy, where this is necessary (and I think it will be necessary). [[Applause]] For the future, the crisis obliges us to pay more attention to the geopolitical risks that weigh on our energy policy and to reduce the vulnerability of our supplies. I would like to thank Mr Cingolani for his daily work on this issue which is so important for our future. [[Applause]] I have spoken about gas, but the most valid answer in the long run is to proceed, as we are doing, in the direction of greater development of renewable sources. [[Applause]] , also and above all with a greater simplification of the procedures for the installation of the plants. It should be noted that the limit to the rapid expansion of renewables is not the technology, the availability of materials and the costs themselves, but the complexity of the authorisation procedures. [[Applause]] We must necessarily overcome these complexities, at least in part. Some of them are legitimate steps of control, but they are of extraordinary complexity, so everything is experiencing a slowdown that Minister Cingolani can make you aware of at every opportunity, as I think he is already doing. However, gas remains essential as a fuel for the transition we are in. [[Applause]] We must strengthen the South Corridor, improve our regasification capacity and increase national production at the expense of imports. The gas produced in Italy is not only more manageable, but is less expensive. The historical crisis that Italy and Europe face could be long and difficult to resolve, partly because it is confirming the existence of deep divergences on the vision of the international world order; divergences that will not be easy to compose. The Government intends to work tirelessly, in close coordination with the allies, to give the citizens the answers they seek at this time of grave uncertainty. To do so, your support, of the majority and also of the opposition, is essential. [[Applause]] In these hours I have received statements of support from all the political groups and their leaders. I'd like to thank them all. I am sincerely grateful to you, because Parliament is the centre of our democracy, the home of all Italians. [[Applause]] and its proximity expresses the proximity of the country. In the face of the terrible threats we face, to be united with Ukraine and our allies, we must first of all remain united with each other. Thank you. [[Stretch applause. The Assembly stands.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u7	Mr President, it is an incontrovertible fact that yesterday Russia triggered a very violent attack, causing death and suffering and leaving the whole world breathless for fear of a possible nuclear escalation. This invasion must certainly be condemned because we reject war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. However, Mr President, you have not been objective in your report. Or rather, you have sinned of a dangerous strabism, highlighting the Russian responsibilities, but remaining silent on those of NATO. The war in Ukraine was already present since 2014: for eight years in Donbass Ukrainian bombs have rained, not highlighted and indeed in some cases blessed by the West, which have caused more than 14,000 deaths, of which many civilians. I wonder why you did not quote this data, which is the background to the Russian attack these days. Was the Donbass war a war that could be tolerated or condemned less, just because in that case the victims of the attack were pro-Russian and the attacks did not disturb, but rather were functional to the strategy of the Atlantic Alliance? No, we cannot condemn the Russian attack without condemning the violence suffered by the people who were demanding independence. The war must always be condemned, not only when it is convenient and above all when it is necessary to take concrete action to avoid it: the opposite of what the West has hypocritically done in this case, pushing increasingly for the enlargement of NATO too close to Moscow, threatening to break the strategic balance that governs relations between the nuclear powers. Just as the United States in 1962 could not tolerate the Soviet Union installing ballistic missiles in Cuba, so it was easy to predict that Russia would react violently in the face of the risk of seeing Ukraine transformed into NATO's most advanced weapon platform. Moreover, Russia's three conditions for averting the conflict would have deserved much more serious discussion: recognition of the territories proclaimed independent, withdrawal of the Ukrainian request for membership of NATO, resulting in demilitarisation of the region. Which of these conditions was deemed inadmissible and why? I did not hear any debate on these points: it was preferred that the situation should degenerate to the present point. If we really want to pursue peace, we must tell the truth and have the courage to recognize that Russian aggression is the daughter of many fathers and opposed imperialist mentality: certainly the Russian one, who never hesitated to use tanks to defend his own interests, but also the American one, interested in preventing close commercial and political relations between continental Europe and Russia. It is no coincidence that the first effect of this crisis was the stop to the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which would have to connect Russia and Germany and which has always been opposed by the United States. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I call on you to regain your autonomy of judgment in order to better weigh the position that Italy must take and which we believe should include: firstly, the request for an immediate cease-fire, by offering us as neutral mediators for overcoming the ongoing conflict; secondly, the unwillingness to send our troops to the border with Russia; thirdly, the firm denial of sanctions, such as the embargo on gas and oil or the exclusion of Russian banks from the international financial system, which would be harmful especially for Italian citizens, already exhausted by the economic crisis that our country has been going through. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u8	Mr President, we cannot talk about the progressive assimilation of linguistic minorities. This is not our policy. And if that were done, not only would it not be useful to the nation, but in the long run it would compromise its interests, as well as its dignity. A country, if free, cannot be unjust and overpowering. These are the words of Aldo Moro, in his parliamentary speech of 15 September 1966 on the question of the autonomy of South Tyrol. We are the Group For the Autonomies and for us autonomy is freedom and dignity, respect and responsibility, exactly the opposite of the motivations that guided Putin's choices to annihilate the autonomy of Ukraine and that have produced what Stoltenberg has defined as the most dangerous conflict since 1945, because, as the "The Wall Street Journal" pointed out, Putin does not want to be part of the current international order, wants it to explode. We are at the most terrible and devastating episode of that world war in pieces evoked by Pope Francis. The seriousness of Putin's actions to assert his neo-imperial design should not be seen as a fact to itself, but should be linked to the other fronts of tension and confrontation - China's claims on Taiwan, Turkey's Ottoman ambitions, India's revancism - and the fact that, beyond the theatre of the clashes, we are also fighting through economic, commercial and financial retaliation. It is this interdependence that must concern us, this chain of events and behavior that makes it difficult - if not, in some cases, even impossible - to calculate its consequences. One thing is certain: Realpolitik must not and cannot prevail over the rule of law: we are and will always be for the rule of law. We are and will always be for sanctions against those who do not respect it; sanctions that must be very hard in this case. Emmanuel Macron, in his speech on the inauguration of the French Presidency of the European Union, said: The end of the rule of law corresponds to the reign of the referee (...) the signal of a return to authoritarian regimes. I would therefore like our values as Europeans to be consolidated. It is in the name of these values of Europeans that the condemnation of Putin's actions must be expressed in a strong and clear way, which the Supreme Defence Council has done and which this Parliament is about to do, knowing that it is not only the fate of Ukraine that is at stake, but the structure of Europe as a whole. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u9	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u10	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are with you, we are with the Government and we appreciate the tone of your statements and the final appeal you made to unity. I'll use the five minutes available for five flashes. The first is that I do not believe that Putin is looking in the past for the reasons for the intervention of these days in Ukraine; that is, I do not believe that, beyond the ideological armament and the speeches he has made, he imagines rewriting history. Putin has a design in mind for the future, not for the past, and if we want to look for the ideological basis of his speech we go to read again the document signed together by Putin and Xi Jinping on February 4, 2022 in Beijing: there is the idea of changing the world order. That is the point we are debating; if we do not start from here we do not grasp the gravity of the situation we are experiencing. The second point: if this principle is true, NATO and the European Union are facing a huge challenge. They are not doing this against NATO and the European Union, they simply do not consider them. There is the idea of organizing and building a new world that starts from the objective difficulties of NATO - let us remember Macron's words, two and a half years ago, on NATO's brain death - and that he imagines, as Mr Bressa rightly said a few moments ago, other actors at institutional level, from India to Southeast Asia (and not only Southeast). So NATO and the European Union speak with one voice. We have made a proposal in our little one: there is a special envoy from the European Union and NATO who is possibly the same. That is why we have proposed an authoritative and credible figure such as that of Angela Merkel. Thirdly, sanctions are inevitable, everyone says, they are right. There is a fact that President Draghi has quite rightly pointed out: we also pay for sanctions, and while it is true that the European Union has set up a EUR 5.4 billion fund for the Brexit emergency, it is equally true that we need at least a double fund to facilitate and in some way help companies that will be affected by sanctions in Italy and in the rest of Europe; this too shows solidarity. Fourthly, on energy, we share what President Draghi has said from A to Z; there is nothing more to add than to wait for the measures that the Government wants to implement to be taken to Parliament. We, Mr President, now assure you of our firm and determined support. Fifth and final point before the conclusion: perhaps some countries in the Visegrád area, when a few hundred thousand refugees arrive, will understand that the reception system of immigration based on the Dublin agreement no longer works. We are living with great suffering the humanitarian disaster that is taking place in Ukraine. This humanitarian catastrophe will bring refugees to the gates of those countries, which for years have turned their heads to Italy and the other Mediterranean countries, rejecting the changes to the Dublin agreement. There are five of the many issues before us. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I agree with you. I don't think Putin made a surprise blow. It is a scientifically planned operation, which, in my opinion, started when the Russian President saw the attitude of the Western community in Afghanistan. In 2013, the Obama administration did not intervene in Syria and six months later the Russians intervened in Crimea. After what happened in Afghanistan, six months later Ukraine arrived. It is essential that we all stand before the President of the Council Draghi and President Mattarella, in order to bring loud and strong the voice of Italy and Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u12	Mr President, President Draghi, Members of the Senate, Members of the Government, what has happened in these hours and is still taking place in Ukraine, for the direct and precise responsibility of Putin's Russia, is undoubtedly very serious. Suddenly, we feel like we're living a nightmare. We are facing a dramatic crossroads of history, with scenes that we thought delivered forever to our past. History places us in front of a crossroads and a brutal acceleration, really dramatic, because it sweeps away, in a single moment, the illusions of those who, after the logic of the blockades, after the cold war, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, had imagined that history would have a linear path, the triumphal march of democracies, freedom and rights. It wasn't like that and it's not like that. Democracy is falling behind and it is our duty to defend it in every corner of the world. [[Applause]] This crossroads, however, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, also sweeps away the theories of those who, in recent years, thought that the world, the planet and the great geopolitical issues could only be regulated by business, the market or by good feelings, turning their eyes to another side so as not to see reality as it is; or the theories of those who explained that there could be free unarmed states, while, once again, history teaches that States are based on numbers, strength and even armies, without which the innocent are the first to succumb. President Draghi, today, here in the Senate, also for the Brothers of Italy Group, for our President Giorgia Meloni, is first of all the day of sorrow for the civilian victims, for the military victims and for the suffering inflicted on the population. And it is also the day for us, especially for us, if you will allow us, of the tribute to the Ukrainian patriots who are fighting, alone, a desperate war. They're fighting, alone, a desperate war! [[Applause]] Politically, however, for us this day, in the Senate as well as in the House, is the day of responsibility, decisions and unity: of the unity of our country, of the unity of the European Union; I would like to say of the unity of the whole free world. These are duties which we, as a group, certainly do not want to escape. We have, however, Mr President, the need to say - not today, because this day is dedicated to something else - that the time will soon come to deal with our mistakes and our faults. Mistakes and faults, in fact, there have been and it is useless to deny it, as it is useless to hide the dust under the carpet. I want to refer to the failure of our national and international diplomatic action, to Biden's failure in American foreign policy, to the hasty and shameful withdrawal, six months ago, from Afghanistan, with NATO allies alerted a few days or a few hours earlier, to the role NATO wants or can play at this moment, which we have not yet understood; and finally, I want to refer to the fact that there is no European Union that carries out an understandable and perceptible military activity. The European Union militarily does not exist, simply. I want to make a single reference instead to our domestic policy, to the issues that concern our country and I have to do so right now, because you did, too, President Draghi. Italy's energy policy in recent years has simply been reckless [[Applause]] We have assigned and entrusted the energy supplies of a G7 country, the second European manufacture, to politically dangerous countries and at the best of politically unstable cases. We have given up a national energy security plan to pursue political correctness, to pursue ideological environmentalism. In other words, we have entrusted the security of our country and our businesses to those who live politics as if they were Alice in Wonderland. But today - I repeat once again - is not the day for these discussions, which we will soon have to do. Today it is a day for us, for our Group, for our political strength, to reaffirm - so that it is clear and there are no shadows - that those who unilaterally decide to attack with arms in hand a neighbouring country immediately and automatically put themselves on the side of the wrong and that there are no reasons of political character, geopolitical character, historical character, pseudo-historical character, recent reasons or past to justify a war of aggression. President and colleagues, the Brothers of Italy Group represents the only opposition in this House, but we have always defined our national, patriotic and absolutely responsible opposition. We will be, as a force of opposition, at the side of the Italian, European and international government institutions at this epochal moment, for the simple reason that it would be impossible, as well as wrong, to choose not to take sides. I happened to read yesterday a speech by Angela Merkel, spoken - I believe - to the European Parliament two years ago during a serious crisis like this - perhaps more serious, I do not know, we will see it - that is, the pandemic crisis. These are words that can be perfectly adapted to today's crisis. The Chancellor said on that occasion that Europe is not such if we do not support each other when an emergency, of which no one is guilty, strikes us. Referring to that crisis, he added that we also have the task of showing who we want to be like Europe. I want to remind you that there can be no children and stepchildren even in the management and consequences of this crisis and because I have also found it out of place on the part of Senator Renzi the continuous polemical postponement, at these moments, to the positions taken by courageous states such as the Polish one, which have tried on their skin the wounds of communism and which still host hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, precisely because of what you have said, the risks we face and the challenges we face, we ask you to represent first of all to the European allies the interests of our country, the hopes, the demands of our citizens and also the legitimate concerns of our companies and our entrepreneurs, who risk paying a high price, perhaps the most expensive of all, in view of the inevitable retaliation of an economic nature. We ask you, as a force responsible for opposition, to act according to the political realism that pushes us to far-sighted solutions, but also to remember that politics is made of ideals that push us to courageous choices, to defend the innate idea that we have of freedom, which must be defended every day in Rome as in Kiev. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u13	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u14	Mr President, it is very important that you give this information in Parliament, which precedes Tuesday's communications, because it gives even more strength to the action that the Government is taking with determination at this dramatic moment and for the closeness that you have previously called for. That of Russia against Ukraine is an act of war, an attack conducted on a large scale, extremely serious and unjustified, which violates the rules underlying the peaceful and civil coexistence of the international community. An act of war all the more serious because it happens in the heart of Europe seventy years after the last great conflict involving a world power. A criminal act that will cause enormous suffering with the loss of human, military and civilian lives, as is unfortunately already happening in these hours. I express, on behalf of the Democratic Party, all our closeness and solidarity to the Ukrainian people for the drama they are experiencing. [[Applause]] We are ready to play our part in all necessary humanitarian support, both with aid for cooperation and for the reception of those who are fleeing the war. I also express solidarity with the Ukrainian citizens who live in our country and who yesterday mobilized with us in many Italian squares. And then a thank you to all our staff who stayed at our embassy in Kiev. [[Applause]] There is no doubt that a firm and cohesive response is needed now; it is not the time of division and we have said so here too. As a Parliament, I am sure that we will support all the decisions of the Government, including those that provide for a strengthening of the eastern front through Italian military employment in the most exposed NATO countries. To these soldiers - I ask Minister Guerini - we want to make all our closeness and awareness of the importance of their mission. [[Applause]] We will also support with conviction the decisions that have been taken and that will be implemented in the next few days on sanctions. The sanctions never go lightly, and that is why we must work to establish compensation systems for the countries and sectors most affected. In the meantime, we believe that it is essential to extend the suspension of the Stability Pact in order to support the weight of these sanctions, which - I repeat - are inevitable, must be tough, but they must also help those who are committing themselves - and Europe is doing so - to try to find a solution. It must be clear to everyone that the strengthening of sanctions and the strengthening of NATO mechanisms are the clearest message that we can send to Putin that the European Union, which is showing great compactness, and the Atlantic Alliance do not fall behind in the face of armed aggression against an independent state and a liberal democracy. It is a clear choice of deterrent and also the only possible way to try to bring the crisis back politically and diplomatically. A firm and unanimous condemnation of Russian aggression must therefore come out of this House, as well as the compactness of the deterrent instruments to be adopted. We know very well where we stand: on the side of democracy and freedom. We all have a duty to condemn because they are in danger not only of the democracy and freedom of the Ukrainian people, but of a world idea. Faced with the challenge between democracy and autocracy, between oppression and violence, on the one hand, and dialogue and diplomacy, on the other hand, there can be no slightest hesitation. We know exactly which side to be on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u15	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u16	President Draghi, we are with you and at this difficult time we will support the Government in all the decisions that will be taken. The Russian aggression against Ukraine is a fact of unheard of gravity, unjustifiable and without any mitigating; it is a violent and blatant violation of international law and legality. Clearly, that is exactly what we wanted to question. It is an act of war that denies the principle, for us sacred, of self-determination of peoples. Not that this is the first time, unfortunately, but - once again - this has been done forcefully. President Draghi, we have hoped until the end, even in the debate that took place here the other day, that the path of diplomacy could stop this escalation, but obviously - it is true - Putin had not, from the beginning, envisaged any alternative to the war option. In fact, it is clear that its objective, covered by a new hypernationalist narrative, is to question the international balance. He has been working on this for a long time, even on the front of alliances like that with China. This is certainly a tragic day for the Ukrainian people and a difficult and dark day for Europe, because we would never have wanted to review the war at the borders of our continent. We express all our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Once again, unfortunately, as always happens in wars (those of today and those of yesterday, which have dotted the history of humanity), the civil population will pay the highest price. We must therefore put all humanitarian support measures in place: open the humanitarian corridors and take charge of a real and strong operation of solidarity, which is really urgent today. The reaction of the international community and Europe must be absolutely firm and united. Now this first package of sanctions has arrived which, as you, Mr Draghi, rightly pointed out, will cost our country. We must have, especially in Europe, the same unitary capacity and solidarity that has been demonstrated in the fight against Covid; in the last two terrible years Europe has shown that it can be united and supportive among all countries. There must be solidarity between countries and with our people because, once again, we must help and support in order to allow this difficult moment to be overcome. As for the energy crisis, we were already paying costs. Now the problem facing us is very big. President Draghi, mistakes have been made in the past, but not only on diversity, because in the end we have always taken supplies into unstable, dangerous and war theaters. At this moment, once and for all, we must assume in Parliament the responsibility for an exceptional and extraordinary plan on renewables, which are clean, and not only because they do not pollute the environment, but also because they are not stained with blood, because they do not trample on human rights. [[Applause]] That is what we are able to do to the full. We know we have to go through another transitional period, but this must be our driving directive. If we then want a new balance, Mr President, we must work again, this time, to put in place a capacity for response that is not war, but is the means to give a new balance of peace to the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u17	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u18	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express the profound closeness of all of us in the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, to the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] , to the Ukrainian community living in Italy and to the 2,500 Italian citizens living in Ukraine, as well as to our armed forces operating under the aegis of NATO in neighbouring countries and their families, to which all our gratitude goes. [[Applause]] Of course, following the red thread of your thanks, President Draghi, a special thanks goes also to all the diplomatic staff, embassy, in particular to Ambassador Zazo, who decided to stay and not to leave. [[Applause]] The invasion of Ukraine, a sovereign country, is an unjustifiable aggression that violates everything: international law, human rights, the principle of self-determination of peoples. It is an act of war that brings us back to the darkest days of the short century and that calls us to a total condemnation. We want to be very clear about this: the condemnation is total, because there is a people of geographical Europe who are being sucked into a horrible past, who see their children falling under the missiles. Colleagues, we are those people; those mothers are our mothers, because war is here - as Mr Malpezzi recalled - in the heart of Europe and, therefore, at the heart of Europe and as such we feel it. Mr President, as you said, we fear that Russia will not stop until it has achieved the objectives that Putin himself has stated he wants to achieve. Well, our response will also have to be just as follow-up. It is time to show that NATO does not - and I evoke Mr Renzi - have the flat electroencephalogram, that Europe is not just a geographical expression - here we go a little further back - which can be blackmailed first with Belarusian migrants and now with Putin's tanks. No, none of this, partner. Solidarity between the two sides of the Atlantic is not a historical and cultural heritage, no. Thirty-three years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and twenty years after the relaxation of the Pratica di Mare [[Applause]] , we must prevent a new iron curtain. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, imperialism has been defeated mainly by history and we cannot allow it to return in other forms. The West cannot accept a season of world disorder that places all democracies under potential siege. The same example of China on Taiwan shows how close the symptom of this disease is, both here and now. The aim is therefore to immediately stop the weapons with a very harsh deterrent - as you said and as all the previous Members have said - with the package of sanctions you have outlined - so firm, targeted sanctions, but above all united sanctions because, if they were not, they would not make sense - that it will have to certify the economic isolation of Russia and, of course, hit its oligarchs at the political and financial heart. These are sanctions that President Biden says must be devastating, but - I am addressing all my colleagues, but I feel that the concern is common - we have to pay attention to the borders of devastation. [[Applause]] , so that they do not reach beyond the desired. I understand that our concerns are common; all the previous Members have evoked them and, therefore, I quickly make them run on a double track. The first concerns the escalation of violence that sees innocent victims suffer and die, as are all the fallen of war; the second is for the reverberation that sanctions will have on our people, who are living these hours with great emotional participation. Our people are already weakened by two years of pandemics. We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are with you. Through these words, President Berlusconi and Forza Italia renew all their support and trust, certain that, thanks to the support of this Parliament, which is absolutely united today, you will be able to make possible, together with the international community, what seems so difficult today. In conclusion, if everything can be lost with war, nothing is ever lost with peace [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u19	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u20	Mr President, this is the moment of unity, of prayer. Every word you bring out of the communion of intent is out of place, both in Italy and abroad. Talking about national issues, internal issues, economic issues, health issues when there are children fleeing war is something that no one deserves, that the country does not deserve. [[Applause]] I therefore expect that next week there will be a joint resolution from the whole of Parliament, because in the face of the bombs there are no majority and no opposition; in the face of the bombs there is the no to the war of all, without if and without but. I therefore refuse to think that there are different documents. Surely the attacker is the culprit and the attacker must be defended. Surely we must start with the weakest. Beyond the principles, let me give an example, with which I had the opportunity to relate this morning: the children. There are fifteen children with cancer hospitalized in Kiev and four hidden in the apartment, followed by the Italian foundation Soleterre. I take advantage not only of these minutes in the Senate Chamber, but also of someone who was in front of television, waiting for diplomacy and states to play their part: today we can help, we can intervene, we must save and rescue those children and Italy has the duty to open the doors to those who run from the real war, to the real refugees. [[Applause]] We often talk about fake refugees and fake wars. These are real refugees fleeing a real war. We therefore need unity. All the more reason why it is as ironic as the European Union, before whose eyes everything that we are seeing now (missiles, bombs, blood, deaths), in the past months if it were to deal with Poland or Hungary. The aggressions of others also depend on the weakness and escapes of the West: if one escapes from Afghanistan and Libya, if one escapes from his own responsibility and creates voids, in history and in life someone else fills them and, if this someone else is aggressive, we have to look into our home. [[Applause]] The role of the Vatican, of the Holy Father is fundamental: diplomacy, relief and, for those who believe, prayer. I speak of diplomacy because, if we respond to war with war, there is no positive result; if we need sanctions, they apply - for God's sake - but at this moment Zelensky asked for a dialogue with Putin, Putin asked for a dialogue with Zelensky; France comes forward. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you represent a country that has founded its culture on dialogue, balance and mediation; someone has attacked it shamefully in recent days. Italy is an expression of dialogue and balance. Step forward and carry on the weight of our country, on behalf of all. [[Applause]] Here we are not at the derby; in some television show it was said that he shook Putin's eye, this is pro-Russian, that is anti-Russian, that is pro-Nazi, that is anti-Nazi. There are bombs, there are 100,000 people on the run, there are answers to give. It's not about making the race for the most screaming. His calmness and composure, which represent the history of Italian balance, from Aldo Moro to Craxi, to Prodi, to Berlusconi, brings them forward, because we are in the right. Dialogue is never defeated at the start. [[Applause]] I have different ideas about other issues, but we need to be compact about this. A mention of the flight on the escapes: it is unworthy of the escape to Afghanistan, it is unworthy of the escape from Libya, it is unworthy of the Italian escape in recent years from an energy self-sufficiency that is fundamental. Renewables are good, it's good to produce more gas, but we can't be the only one in the world who says no to nuclear for ideological reasons that no longer have any sense of existence on the face of the earth. [[Applause]] One last mention: I started with the children and I close with the children. Let's look at the demography, President: the first European country on the population list comes to 19th place, Germany. Italy is in 24th place. Among the top thirty countries in the world per population, the European Union, which dies off, is ashamed of its roots and flees, has only four countries out of the first thirty per population. The future of horrible tragedy, which we must stop with every means necessary, passes from peace, from children and from the family. If we work together, we can do it. President, bear the name of Italy everywhere in the name of dialogue. We never like war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u21	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr Draghi, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, the greatest solidarity and closeness to the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] The violent Russian military aggression against Ukraine, with the support of Belarus, is a very serious and unjustifiable act, which the Movimento 5 Stars strongly condemns, asking Russia to immediately stop all military operations. They're silent and the word goes straight back to diplomacy. No geopolitical instance can be resolved by the use of force. War - as our Constitution says - cannot be the means of resolving international disputes. The only way is through dialogue and diplomacy. This, Mr President, is also the time to demonstrate the strength of the European Union: not of individual chancellors, but of the Union as such, of the Union as a power that speaks one voice and with one strategy. However, the immediate ceasefire must also be the objective of the entire international community, which must therefore work tirelessly. A few days ago Pope Francis said that humanity, who boasts of moving forward in science and progress, goes back in weaving peace. And that makes us all ashamed. History, President, cannot and must not go back. It is unacceptable for a war to be waged in the heart of Europe in 2022, all the more so after a dramatic pandemic and a very severe economic crisis. [[Applause]] We are struggling to get out of a crisis that has brought our economy, our families, our businesses to their knees. And now this war risks undermining deep into the difficult post-pandemic restart and bringing Italy and Europe into a dramatic economic scenario, with already visible chain increases, from energy to fuels, to basic necessities, including food. In order to avert this economic scenario, President, the 5 Star Movement calls on the Government to make itself Europe's spokesman for the proposal to make the Next generation EU, the first real European common debt issue, structural. [[Applause]] For this reason we propose a declination of the recovery fund as a recovery energy fund: a mechanism of support and solidarity compensation that takes into account the different national exposures, able to respond in a proportionate way to the economic damage suffered by each country. The news of the last few hours that speak of a growing number of civilian victims describes in a dramatic way how real the risk of a bloodbath and a humanitarian tragedy of unheard of proportions is. Seeing Kiev's mothers sew on their children's clothes labels with their own blood type reminded me of the heartbreaking words of Gino Strada: the war likes politicians who do not know her, likes those who have economic interests, who are far away from her. Those who know war get an idea very soon, because wars are declared by the rich and powerful, who then send the children of the poor to die. [[Applause]] And so, President, united Europe, born on the ruins of the Second World War, mobilizes to achieve an immediate ceasefire and Italy, founded on the repudiation of war, is at the head of European diplomatic efforts to silence weapons and give the word back to diplomacy. The 5 Star Movement, always pacifist, today asks the government to commit... [[Some Senators of the M5S Group raise flags bearing the inscription "Peace".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u23	Remove the flags! It seems to me quite frankly useless and even inappropriate at the moment. I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-409.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 March, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.02 p.m.
