ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 31 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u4	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u6	DE VECCHIS (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, unfortunately, I have to denounce a very serious fact that happened today in Turin during the visit of President Draghi. Senator Paragon and Mr Costanzo were physically prevented from exercising their mandate as parliamentarians. Once again Parliament has been humiliated. Perhaps we are facing a new monarchy, the monarchy of Mario Draghi. Therefore, I am here to denounce the fact that it is not possible for Italian parliamentarians to do their job of monitoring and verifying what is happening. I am here to ask for the solidarity of the whole Senate, but also of the whole Parliament. Do Members still have a role in Italy or not? That must be understood. Are we facing a new king? Are we faced with a dictatorship of the majority? Once again, Minister Lamorgese has shown all his inability. We have to admit it. Maybe she's an expert on raves, but little on public order. We will be asking a question to shed light on what has happened. Solidarity with Senator Paragon and Mr Costanzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u7	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u9	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, as my colleague said, a very serious fact has happened today: two Members (one of whom belongs to my Alternative component) have been physically prevented from accessing a route only because they are too close to where President Draghi's visit was taking place. Looks like they were pushed, too. If this had happened to any other Member of Parliament, the ending would have burst and there would have been declarations of solidarity and requests for the resignation of the Prefect of Turin. It happened to two members of the opposition and everything is silent. Mr President, I would ask you, in order to defend Parliament's prerogatives, to make Parliament's voice heard because it is not possible that in a country like Italy, just because President Draghi is surrounded by an aura of untouchability, Members should not be allowed to move freely on Italian territory to check with their own eyes what is happening. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u10	Colleagues, I'm here for the Senate order of business and not for the country's order of business. Therefore, if they concern this House well, otherwise I am sorry, but you will have the speeches at the end of the sitting, which is the right place. In addition, one Senator per Group can intervene and no more.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2462, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 2224 and 2214. The rapporteur, Senator Vitali, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u12	Mr President, the measure before the House, which has already been approved by the House of Members, contains some amendments to the single text of local authorities (TUEL), to the management control and limit the number of successive mandates of mayors of small municipalities, as well as rules on the inconferability of posts in private bodies under public control. The text consists of 3 articles. Article 1 provides for the inconferability of top administrative posts in bodies governed by private law under public control in respect of those who have been convicted, even by a judgment which has not been finalized, for one of the offences provided for in Chapter I, Title II, Book II of the Criminal Code, relating to the crimes of public officials against the public administration. To this end, Article 3 (1) (a) of Legislative Decree No. 39 of 8 April 2013, which in the current text provides for the inconferibility with respect to those who have been sentenced for the alleged crimes of top positions in state, regional and local administrations, integrating this provision with the reference also to top positions in private law bodies in public control. Article 2, by means of a novella in Article 196, paragraph 1, of the TUEL excludes municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants from the local authorities that are required to apply the management control. Article 3 provides for Article 51 TEU, which regulates the term of office of the mayor, the President of the Province and the Council and provides for the limitation of mandates. In particular, it provides that mayors who have carried out a number of consecutive mandates exceeding the limit laid down shall not be eligible, whereas in the current text of Article 51 (2) of the TEU they shall be deemed not to be eligible. It also states that mayors of municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 can carry out up to three consecutive mandates, resulting in coordination. Finally, it provides for the repeal of Article 1, paragraph 138, of Law No. 56 of 2014, which currently reserves only to the mayors of Municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants the possibility to be re-elected for a third term. As was rightly pointed out at first reading, this rule concerns some 70,000 local administrators, elected in small municipalities, and the simplification of their administrative activities. I would like to remind you that, at the thirty-eightth annual assembly of Italian Municipalities, the President of the Republic, Mattarella stressed the value of this role, stating that the administration of a local institution today requires, alongside the daily care of the management of services, an increased capacity for forecasting and foresight. The measure in question is in keeping with what has rightly updated the allowances of local administrators, assuming that the management of public affairs can no longer be carried out in the time cut-off of their work, and that they need constant dedication and commitment. Certainly the galaxy of the problems of the local administrators is much wider, but with this measure we give voice to one of the many existing demands. We would have liked to have gone further and, as far as I am concerned, to extend the possibility of the third term of office, but the will to make this rule immediately enforceable has prevailed since the next local elections. Otherwise, with mathematics certainty, if we had changed even a comma, this would not have been possible, but the debate is open anyway and the examination of the norms of modification of the TUEL put in field from the government will be the next test bench. Allow me, however, at the end of the speech, first of all to thank the opposition, who with a sense of responsibility withdrew the only amendments tabled, President Parrini, all colleagues from the 1st Commission, the representative of the Government and the Offices, for their valuable cooperation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u13	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are in the process of general discussion on one of the few draft laws of parliamentary initiative, which unfortunately consists of only three articles and which could have been much wider. The bill was proposed to the Chamber of Deputies, with the will to make a fundamental contribution to municipal administrators and unfortunately, despite two years of interlocutions, despite the many hearings, by the original bill consisting of 36 articles, the current bill has been reduced to three articles. For Christ's sake, these are three important articles, but certainly not resolving the problems that we are facing on a fundamental theme for the foundations and foundations of our institutions, that is, the Municipalities. When it comes to municipalities, account must be taken of the responsibilities of the mayors. Today, to be mayor means to be operational twenty-four hours a day, to set aside one's work and one's family and to put before the whole community, which needs and has the right to have answers, which must be wide-ranging. In fact, we think about social services, urban planning and the security of the territory, issues on which mayors always respond firsthand. This is therefore a very important commitment, so the legislator must provide the necessary tools to ensure that this is best achieved. Objectively in these periods, many people would like to approach the administration, but they are frightened by all the responsibilities, the cutting of resources and the lack of staff, the latter due to the cuts made over the years. Precisely for this reason it is important Article 3 of this bill, which grants the possibility of a third term to the mayors of the municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants. In addition to that, there is also what the rapporteur was talking about earlier. The President of the Republic Mattarella said that the mayors must have vision and vision. However, projects often take a long time, especially because of bureaucracy. So it is important that a mayor can see his projects carried out, and that is why the third term of office is important, even if the hope is that the projects will be completed as soon as possible. Often some projects, having a broad vision, go to intersect with smaller projects. Normally, when you set up a new administration (unfortunately this is a bad Italian defect, but I think also foreign), this tends to erase everything that the old administration has done. On the other hand, even for saving time and money, we should continue with the projects that have already begun. I shall conclude, since my time is over, hoping that the delegation law announced by the Undersecretary Scalfarotto will be put in place for a reform of the single text of local authorities that will be complete and that it will respond to our mayors, who are often referred to as heroes. We must give them the necessary tools to be able to best manage our communities, which are the bulwark of our nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u16	Mr Calderoli, I am pleased that you are the chairman, not to congratulate you, but because you are one of those Members who really care about the local authorities. The life of our local administrations and municipalities is the real backbone of this country. I would like to thank my colleague Roberto Pella, who presented this bill, for his activism and sensitivity towards the issue of municipalities and mayors (I know he will come here to the Senate in the afternoon); he has taken care to deal with the issue of small municipalities not only within the ANCI, of which he is Vice-President, but also, and above all, in Parliament, because it is an issue that has to be addressed. The small municipalities and their mayors - let us be frank - are in fact the essence of the symbols of our country. Italy is mainly composed of municipalities, many municipalities. There are regions like mine, Abruzzo, Piedmont or many others. I know that Mr Perosino will speak in an explanation of vote; here he is, he has moved, he has come down from the ranks to speak in an explanation of vote. He was mayor of a small municipality in Cuneo, one of the many small municipalities. She's still mayor. I'm sorry, I'm correct. How do you make a mistake like that? I'm making amends to Mayor Roberto Perosino. The point is that they really represent our symbols. [[Applause]] The tricolor band they wear has an extraordinary value also compared to the projection that this country must have and must give towards those many citizens who no longer believe in the institutions, who think instead that fighting politics means fighting also those who represent it, who politics does it, who gets their hands dirty and does it, among other things, on the front, as happens for the mayors, because they are, in fact, the first representatives of the institutions and therefore also of politics compared to the citizens. [[Applause]] They are real heroes, as my friend Aimi has always suggested, who I also thank for the work he has done for this process and of course I thank the rapporteur of this bill here in the Senate, Senator Vitali, who more than many others has taken on the theme and the fundamental importance that mayors have. Moving attention to the subject of mayors is an issue on which I must say that in this parliamentary term, dear President Calderoli, a step has been taken. Just a few months ago, for example, thanks also to Mr Parrini, President of the 1st Commission, whom I thank for his great sensitivity, having also been mayor of his wonderful municipality, Vinci, we have addressed the fundamental issue of the increase in the allowances of the mayors. Today it is necessary to give the possibility in small municipalities - up to 5,000 inhabitants - at least to apply for a third term. Believe me, giving them the opportunity to be elected and to be the first citizen for fifteen years means asking them for a sacrifice, because it is a real, genuine service to the citizens. [[Applause]] We are loading them, therefore, with a further weight, with a further responsibility, because to me personally it turns out - so it happens in my Region, but I believe that it happens also elsewhere - that it is becoming difficult also to find people willing to take charge of this responsibility in the small municipalities. [[Applause]] Thank you, therefore, to Senator Perosino, who is a symbol of this category of citizens who have this possibility. I therefore hope that this draft parliamentary law, which arrives - thanking the Lord - at the conclusion and will be approved in good time to allow the mayors in the second term to be able to stand for the third already in the next administrative part-session, is the road towards a reform of the single text on the local authorities that I understand will also shortly come to the attention of the 1st Commission of the House and the Senate, a work that has naturally seen the involvement of the Minister of the Interior, who has collaborated in this draft also with representatives of the Parliament and therefore of all the Groups present in Parliament. I hope that this will be an opportunity to give more and more responsibility, but above all more and more importance to those who deal with this. I was elected seven times city councilman of my city, Pescara, and for me that was a wonderful time: for twenty years I was administrator, I did not make the mayor but I did the city councilman, the city councilman, in short I dealt with local administration and I believe that it is a beautiful thing on the one hand, but that it is also a weight not indifferent, because the real projection of the citizen is first of all the mayor, who deals with the problems that the citizen lives under the house, from urban cleanliness to cleanliness of the city, good services, public lighting, the keeping of the streets, all things that are occupied by the first citizens and their teams that are their city councilmen, the Municipal Councils. This bill does little, because it refers only to the municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants, giving the possibility to the mayors to be elected even for a third term, which was not allowed before, or rather it was for the municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, but I think this is a first step. I think, as I imagine many of you, that something more can and must be done, not for all the municipalities, even the most important ones, but that this is an opportunity to put the spotlight on the issue of local administrations, giving them, here, from Parliament, increasing importance and greater support. I would therefore like to thank Mr Pella, Senator Vitali and all those who contributed to this work in my Group. Forza Italia can only join by voting favorably (even if the explanation of vote will then be for Senator Petrosino), because clearly, being the first signatory of the bill a Member of Forza Italia for us this is also an occasion of boasting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u18	Mr President, speaking on a subject such as the one on which we are going to vote, concerning local governments and mayors, is a source of great satisfaction for me, taking into account both the experience we have had and the respect that over the years each of us, knowing them, has learned to bring towards those who have committed themselves as intensely as our mayors on the ground. Mr President, as I have always said and confirm, I would like to put it in the Constitution that, in order to gain access to the higher elected posts, it would be good for a citizen to have experience in a municipality before. It is there, in fact, that you learn about relationships with people and you really find out what it means to put yourself at the service and what are the civic virtues that then must inform and characterize the highest political activity. By approving this bill today - so I thank my colleagues for the work they have done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, starting with the group leader, Mr Augussori. [[Applause]] , the first signatory of another related bill - we will give our citizens, mayors of the municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants, the opportunity to have access to a third mandate. Beware that what may seem like a privilege granted is, on the other hand, a sign of gratitude that we express to them, but also a further commitment. In fact, starting from the smaller municipalities it is unfortunately not uncommon that it is difficult to find those who are willing to commit to an administrative mandate, to govern some small municipalities that also has difficulty finding the resources to push forward the current issues. We have put ourselves in a position to give our citizens already committed a further opportunity for commitment and example, remembering that within a community the first example of the relationship between the state and the citizens is given precisely by the mayor and the local administrators. We are grateful to them, as I said, but we must remember that this measure is not enough to define all the needs of our Municipalities, otherwise it would mean forgetting at once, ladies and gentlemen, that we need resources and also a functional reorganization within the local authorities, which can only go through a thorough revision of the single text referred to in Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000. There are draft legislation of parliamentary initiative and some government proposals that are essential to Parliament's approval quickly, because we need to give our Commons new and appropriate instruments, avoiding, as unfortunately often happened, limiting ourselves to formal definitions, then losing sight of the substance, that is, the organization of the institutions and the resources available to them. In the measure in our examination there is also another particularly significant part that I want to mention, that is the exclusion of municipalities with population up to 5,000 inhabitants from the complicated obligations for management control, that can be appropriate for a municipality of greater size, but that often and willingly become a disproportionate burden for a municipality of small size. Here, with the approval of this bill we will also bring common sense within these regulations. Mr President, I would also like to make another point, which concerns the responsibility of the administrators. Addressing the Assembly I say that it is necessary to be aware that a mayor cannot be entrusted with the administration of a municipality without considering the responsibilities to which this person is then called, often and willingly without even benefiting from the support of a structure available, technical or administrative, because it lacks in size and possibilities. It is therefore necessary to achieve what is defined in the Constitution as loyal cooperation between the institutions. Mr President, we are trying. We have deposited a draft law on this subject, which also contains an invitation to cooperate with the Court of Auditors. If it was already questionable some time ago that a part of the State simply controlled at the end of a path and sanctioned any mistakes made, today it is completely anachronistic, and it is no longer admissible; today we must pretend that there is, on the part of all the institutions, loyal cooperation with each other and those who have the duty to control must support those who have responsibility in the management of the administration, helping to avoid that they propose and present mistakes. Denying this function means granting a third mandate to directors, leaving them before their responsibilities without the resources or without the technical and administrative support that is needed in the smallest municipality to deal with complex procurement procedures or administrative management. This is an awareness and responsibility that we must assume. We must also remember, as we do in the bill at our examination, distinguishing between the municipalities over the 5,000 inhabitants and those under the 5,000 inhabitants, that they are not all the same. There is a large dimension, which also has access to the media and a visibility that often and willingly becomes the tool to solve problems. Then there are the small municipalities that sometimes do not even have the voice of the local newspaper in order to be able to make known their difficulties. There is also an associative form. Therefore, it would not be objectionable, in my opinion, that we consider not only the existence of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), meritorious and that it groups all the categories of the Municipalities, but also, with due dignity, the National Association of Small Municipalities (ANPCI), taking into account that there are small Municipalities that are the most true Italy, the one made by the simplest people, who still distinguish us from the standard that in other countries has approved cities in large agglomerations. That is why it would not be a bad thing, regardless of many aspects that still need to be regulated, for example at that useful table represented by the State-City Conference the representatives of the small municipalities could also sit down and not just the representatives of the municipalities in general. [[Applause]] So let us welcome this bill. We welcome this with great satisfaction. Let's tell our mayors: come on, go ahead, the League is with you. We are with anyone who undertakes at local level to administer a small municipality as a large municipality. Let us not forget that we are made of these communities, which are the ones through which the most true and deepest civic consciousness of our fellow citizens is formed. I would like to thank the mayors once again and finish, Mr President, with the hope that the new single text of the local authorities will soon be brought to life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u19	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, years ago, when I became mayor, a person who is no longer there, but who has been very dear to me, he said to me: mayor is the one who has the burden and the honor of leading a people, whether small or large. On these words, which I will always remember, I began what was an adventure, which ended even in a not complete way and left me - and still leaves me - bitter in my mouth. To be mayor, as my colleagues have previously explained, is to play a very important role, often with little resources available, with an apparatus of technical offices lacking and with political difficulties too, because being mayor, having a Junta and a Council, does not mean, because more "small" as a role, not having political problems. In fact, many times it means having a context with which to relate more difficult. The mayor has the resilience that we are talking about today in the PNRR, which is a different resilience, because it is a physical and psychological resilience, to which he has to act daily, for a time that has no border: a mayor is not asked to participate in a Commission, a Junta or a Council; a mayor is available 24 hours a day, on Saturday, on Sunday, in Ferragosto and at Christmas. He is a public officer, he is a health officer, he must declare the state of emergency, he must know how to intervene in the most extreme and most difficult conditions. A mayor confronts the bureaucracy and perhaps any proposal that comes out of these classrooms should be considered very well when it concerns the mayors, because they often find themselves in a position to not apply the rules that we legislate here. Why? Because they are extremely complicated in their application and in their reading and because the method of extension of the norm is often extremely complicated; the large municipalities may have a legal office, but the small municipalities, which do not have it, are perplexed to try to understand what is the most correct interpretation not to incur the mistake. Our measures often overlap and are a further inconvenience to these mayors. The mayors then have a responsibility; they do not have immunity, like the parliamentarians in the exercise of their mandate. The mayor confronts himself daily with the error that can be there, next to him; with the error made in good faith, with the error made to try to solve a situation in immediacy, and then maybe to make the expense in the following years. Of course, transferring a possible responsibility to an official is a simplistic response, because it often results in the cessation of all administrative activity. The measure that we are going to adopt today is certainly important, but - let me say the word - it is a niche. It concerns the importance of making the second or third term; the fact that the municipalities under 5.000 inhabitants may not be forced to do management control, although they certainly have other paths to follow; and then the question of the difference between the concept of incandidability and that of ineligibility. But basically what the mayor needs, the one who wants to hold this office in both a small and a large municipality, is a reform - it has already been widely said by my colleagues - of the TUEL (provided for by the bill of delegation to the Government), which is substantial and fundamental, because a good mayor is measured today only in terms of consent; and in order to have the consent, he must succeed in doing. There are dozens of administrators who would like to do this, but they have their hands tied to matters of money or standards. The mayor seems to have a small role, while instead it is the fundamental part of the whole society: so many mayors together make the territories; the territories make the Provinces and the Regions; the Regions make Italy; and so many mayors who work well and are put in a position to do the job well can give an immediate response. What mayors need is a text that allows them to be truly operational. When we get out of here, we go to our offices; some come back to their homes and some have appointments to attend. On the other hand, the mayor goes around his own territory, he never ends up doing his own business; he meets the citizen who asks him why a lamppost is not in place, because a road is not fixed, and today he is often in a position to answer that the money has not yet arrived, that he is waiting for a norm. The hope is that this measure, although important, will be the flywheel and the push because the other great measure, the reform of the TUEL, will really come to fruition, with the assumption that it serves the Italians and that our mayors, of whatever political color are, are fundamental for the citizens, because they carry out their demands in a direct way. It is difficult to find who wants to run today: it is another political problem, but this is not the place to talk about it. The other hope is that those who want to apply and want to experience this role, which remains and will always remain in the heart of those who do it, have the awareness not only of wearing a band, but also of honoring it in the true sense of the word. We can help them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u21	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u22	Mr President, we all know very well that the draft law we are debating today cannot be considered an exhaustive measure and perhaps - and we must acknowledge it and say it frankly - it does not even claim to be one. It was, moreover, an awareness which emerged already in the debate in the House, which was confirmed here in the Commission with the evaluation and the choice to withdraw all the amendments tabled. Today we are faced with a text that is the result of a shared and very broad political agreement, because first of all very broad is the awareness that the single text on local authorities needs careful review and on several aspects. We know that this revision is on the agenda of the Government and we sincerely hoped that a delegation text would arrive from the Council of Ministers more quickly, as it is obvious and right that it is a single text. We know that was not the case. I therefore believe it is right that, at this time, of course, before the next local elections in spring, Parliament should be given a clear signal of compactness, which repeats without any doubt that there is no longer any time to waste to give answers to the right and I would say sacred requests raised for some time by mayors and administrators of our territory. This is one of the few drafts of legislation that come into the Chamber born of a parliamentary initiative. Over the last two years, we have often found ourselves reflecting, moreover, on the reasons for this trend which the emergency - of course - has aggravated, but which unfortunately has perhaps even deeper roots than the context we are going through. I therefore believe that this is a further signal: among the few parliamentary texts, there is one born and matured thanks to the commitment of the parliamentary groups to find a minimum common denominator that anticipates some urgent issues on the TEU. As has already been mentioned by the rapporteur, whom I thank for his work, Article 1 provides for the inconferability of administrative and top-level tasks to private law bodies under public control in the event of a conviction for crimes against public administration. Currently the inconferibility is previewed for the managerial assignments and of directors in these agencies and the extension previewed transposes - in our opinion opportunely - solicitations coming from the National Authority anticorruption (NAC). Article 2 introduces an accounting simplification for municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, for which the obligation to carry out the management control, provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 196 of the TEU, is rightly removed. The demand for simplification for small municipalities in the area of management control has long been on the ground, because obviously there was an excessive, often bureaucratic and not substantial burden on small municipalities, which does not make the necessary differences between a metropolitan municipality and another municipality of much smaller size. To identify, therefore, different obligations depending on the size of the municipality is correct: it goes from the perspective not only of what so many territorial administrators ask us, but above all in a logic of simplification that to the public administration ask many European recovery programs. I would add, therefore, that there will have to be an opportunity, on this level, to resume this requirement by extending it to all the tasks that are now required and which serve to meet the needs of the central administrations, leaving behind the equally significant needs of the territorial administrations, especially the smallest ones. Finally, the third article of this text addresses the issue of increasing the number of mandates from two to three in municipalities with a population of less than 5,000. This is a point that deserves attention and clarity on our part. The increase from two to three mandates for municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants was introduced by Law No. 56 of 2014; today raising the threshold from 3,000 to 5,000 inhabitants does not alter the substance. The thresholds, as always, are questionable, but I think the judgment should be given on a more general criterion. It is well known that direct election, which has been a cornerstone of our system since 1993, guarantees a clear and direct responsibility relationship with the electoral body; on the other hand, it contains a higher concentration of power which, for this reason, the legislator has taken care to offset the limit of mandates. In the meantime, however, difficulties have grown in finding an administrative political class, especially - and this goes without saying - in smaller centres for many reasons which, sooner or later, will have to be dealt with without concessions to ideology and with so much sense of reality. Let me remind you that here in the Senate there are proposals that follow this path: I am thinking of a real issue that is the compensation of the mayors, on which we have already intervened in the budget law, but also the responsibility for events or events on which the mayor has no full control. I am thinking, therefore, of the criteria for the indictment of omissive criminal liability and of the accounting administrative liability which, as we know, are the subject of a debate which has been going on for some time and which must find an outlet as soon as possible. These themes are a reality, as anyone who frequents territories knows, listen to the mayors and our administrators. Then these elements of reality must also be taken into account by the regulatory and constitutional balances and balances that we are going to face. That is why I sincerely believe that if it is correct - as I said - to raise the threshold to 5,000 inhabitants, to extend it to the larger municipalities or to remove the limits completely for the smaller ones requires a more detailed and punctual reflection that we will be called to do - I hope - in the coming months. However, we can reason for everything, but always within a logic that is that of the balance between different needs and interests, which, moreover, is the logic that we find in our Constitution. In conclusion, I repeat the goodness of this intervention, as well as the extent of the changes, including the symbolic value, as a signal that Parliament today has a strong and clear will and a high expectation for a comprehensive change to the single text of local authorities, which we expect to come to the House as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u23	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u24	Mr President, you will forgive me if I say that I make this brief speech as mayor, rather than as senator; proudly mayor of the third term of office of a small municipality. The small municipalities, which represent 69 percent of the Italian municipalities, are 5,500; small municipalities that have been rediscovered in recent months and years, like the architrave of Italy. We all remember what the mayors did during the pandemic. If there weren't those mayors, along with the health staff, how much greater difficulties Italy would have had and would have had to face the Italians. Those mayors have taken on many responsibilities, both in relation to what was the health sector and in relation to the distribution of vouchers to so many citizens, where at first there were no rules, but the only pulse of the situation was the state of need of so many families. Then we also saw mayors on the front line. And we are seeing them now, during this incomprehensible and unjustifiable war in Ukraine, while they welcome and stretch their hand, all lined up and lined up, women and children, waiting to ask the state for help, both financial and logistical. Mr President, now there is also a great expectation, which I would like to point out here, as far as the PNRR is concerned. I feel too often that we have to wait for the mayors and their ability to implement the mayors, and that the ability to develop a strategy lies with them. Too many, however, are those who philosophize behind a desk and forget that very often mayors do not have the right tools to implement the PNRR. I'm on my own, in the vast majority of cases. Mr President, I also say that, in the various selections that have been made in recent months for the PNRR, the results have not always been satisfactory. I'm talking about it from experience. Fresh and competent forces often do not arrive in the municipalities: neither fresh nor competent forces arrive, unable to support the mayors. As a result, everyone refers to the mayors. We're proud, ready, we're not gonna back down. Let us, however, give the right recognition to those gentlemen who dress the tricolor band with dignity. As many people have said before me, the measure we are examining and will be approving shortly is important, but it is a minority part of a broader and more incisive reform that we all hope for. It starts from the inconferability of top management positions in bodies governed by private law under public control for those who have suffered a conviction, even not final, in the context of crimes against public administration. We move through the abolition of the control of the management of small municipalities and we arrive at the third mandate. As Senator Candiani said before, we must say thanks to those mayors who are still in their place today, who decide to run. But we want many more reforms. Some may relate to the single text of local authorities, Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000. I can think of, for example, the profile of responsibility. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, it was already quite clear. Evidently, however, some magistrates pretended not to understand it, or thought well that throwing a mayor in the papers rather than an executive would do more news. Already from Bassanini laws, however, from the single text of the local authorities, the tasks are clearly divided: the politician and the mayor have the powers of political direction and political control; the manager or the manager of the service the management and the assumption of the acts. The mayor, however, is always there, like a lightning rod. The delegation law is now in place, which we hope will lead to an even better clarification of this issue as soon as possible. Therefore, mayors will no longer oversee the operation of the services and offices, nor will they oversee the execution of acts. And we hope that this specification will finally put an end to the mayor's criminal responsibility in particular. Mr President, I would also go further because this is an issue that has been raised by President Ostellari. I would not just stop at the unique text of the local authorities, but I would go further, looking at the penal code and the official abuse that so many mayors have put under investigation and perhaps even under trial. Then, however, in the vast majority of cases everything melted like snow in the sun, since the abuse of office is subjected to the so-called diabolical test, because the mayor has never been in bad faith, has not had the specific dole, has not violated the norm, has not violated the regulation and has not harmed anyone or any unfair advantage to anyone else. [[Applause]] A little courage would take to make this important change. Among other things, the President of ANCI said this: this means not asking for impunity for the mayors, but to make those people work in serenity and tranquillity, knowing that, where they were to commit crimes, they will surely answer for their responsibilities. Protecting mayors also means protecting democratic participation. How many times in small municipalities we are forced to attend the presentation of so-called owl lists, where there are no people willing to sacrifice themselves and engage in an electoral competition and, if anything, also in the administration of the municipality. Besides, the mayors can't run anywhere, but they're there. Even in small municipalities, if they are not in town hall, they are at the professional studio and, if they are not even there, they are at home. They are present, garrison of civilization and freedom to guarantee services and rights. Another bad page for the mayors, even to show that they are the outpost of the state on the territory, is represented - let us remember - by the innumerable threats, intimidating and offensive acts that suffer both de visu, and now - alas - with the abuse of the use of social media. Only in 2021 were the intimidating acts 722. We demand dignity and even more agility - some others might speak of more powers - because it is too easy to say that, with direct election, the mayor has more powers. In fact, especially in small realities, the mayor does not have all these powers. He has many responsibilities, but he doesn't have many powers, because often in those realities he can't even choose the manager and the manager, having to limit himself to choosing - fortunately - at least the municipal secretary. To conclude, I would like to mention Article 114 of our Constitution, which was first mentioned in 2001 and which reads extraordinarily beautifully: The Republic consists of the Municipalities, Provinces, Metropolitan Cities, Regions and State. These are the various institutional levels of our country that we believe must have equal dignity. Senator Candiani said earlier that very often mayors can bring added value to institutions. Many times, speaking with friends, I make a joke destined to remain so, because it would not be allowed by our Constitution: it would take a minimum of cursus honorum. I believe that this is another aspect and it is up to the parties to make a selection. But many local administrators and many more mayors, in an institution like this, would bring the royal country into the palace and render a far better service to the whole country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u25	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u28	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the measure we are about to vote on today is a very good starting point and I too would like to thank the rapporteur for the draft law in the House of Members, Mr Roberto Pella. We are taking action on the sensitive issue of the inconferability of assignments in the event of a conviction for crimes against the public administration. We expect greater simplification in the area of management control, especially for small municipalities, and we review the provisions concerning the limitation of the mandate of the mayors of small municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that these interventions can only be the beginning of a journey and not the point of arrival. I say this because I think it is appropriate to make a serious and thorough reflection on the role that mayors have progressively assumed. The pandemic has shown us how valuable their contribution is in the concrete management of the problems, as well as their proximity to the territory and to the needs of the population. Always at the forefront of emergency management, mayors have demonstrated, even during the pandemic, industriousness, civil sense and pragmatism and to them goes an endless thanks also from the Italian Group Viva-PSI. They have been valuable in the application of strict emergency containment measures, when they have encouraged citizens at the most difficult times, but also when they have not shirked away from listening and concrete help. In short, they have proved to be real heroes of the territory and this is certainly a positive aspect, for which we cannot do without and for which we want to thank them. Alongside this, however, we cannot ignore the other side of the coin, the one that highlights the nerves discovered in this delicate role: mayors are called to face a new world, having at their disposal only the old regulatory and administrative apparatus, which is now chaotic and completely insufficient. So this measure can only be a beginning of a certainly broader and more systematic work, which starts first of all from a systematic review of the TEUL. The need to put a stop to the rules governing self-government has obviously become increasingly urgent, not only to rewrite with greater certainty the legal status of the directors, and therefore the boundaries of their responsibility, but also to break down that load of bureaucracy that is seriously risking to compromise the investments that have been allocated with the funds of the PNRR. A commitment of this type requires not mere maintenance, but a broader and innovative intervention, which I hope will lead in the short term to rewrite the rules on the subject, so that they are more suited to the needs of the territories than the current TUEL, which still fails to grasp the current problematicities. In this I believe that the contribution of the mayors must not only be desirable, but indispensable. Their involvement in every hypothesis of reform becomes fundamental, if you want to grasp the nuances of the efforts that characterize their daily work in the territories. Moreover, one cannot fail to consider the extent of responsibility that these administrators are required to respond to in civil, criminal and erarial matters, as the chronicles of recent years also testify. If we do not intervene urgently on these aspects, more and more people will no longer be willing to take on the office of mayor. Already today, above all, young people are moving away from administrative participation and we run the real risk of not renewing properly and promptly the ruling class, removing from the country those characteristics of greater propensity to innovation and dynamism that are most necessary and urgent and that we find precisely in the new generations. As President Draghi recalled in the last assembly of ANCI, the Italian municipalities are increasingly at the centre of the country's epochal changes, because a new phase for Italy and its nearly 8,000 municipalities is opening, which will be called to play a fundamental role in the implementation of the PNRR, but also to have more resources and to carry out new projects accordingly. The municipalities need simplification and today's measure still becomes a foundation stone in the pond. It is necessary to invest on those who have elective positions in their territories, on those who are mayors, because they know the problems of daily management. We need a lot of awareness about what it means to be at the forefront of the territories and to be at the centre of often the most disparate instances. When we think of the revision of the limits of liability, including in the area of criminal law, we do so not because we are motivated by the desire to create a privileged class among local administrators, but because we are well aware that what falls on the local administrator then concerns the administrative life of an entire country. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Scalfarotto for his quick and effective work. I know that it will continue to work in this right direction, always close to the authorities of local authorities and administrators. I really hope that, even today, all together, in a cross-cutting way, we can give a first sign of closeness and concrete support to our mayors. I therefore vote in favour of Italy Viva-PSI.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u31	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, this bill stems from various parliamentary initiatives in the House and one of those measures is by Brothers of Italy. The need to change many norms within the local authorities has been felt very much in Parliament, the Group of Brothers of Italy has promoted it and has contributed to the promotion of this bill. Unfortunately, however, then he intervened - and this is not new, because other governments have already done so - the scare of a government bill for the overall reform of the single text of the local authorities. The good result of this announcement is that most of the proposals are stopped because you have to wait for the government bill. There are sketches on the Internet, but they have not been officialized in any way, let alone transmitted to the Senate, which is the other branch of Parliament, dating back to October. So, after six months now, almost seven, we're still standing still and we don't know where it's gonna go. The draft law we are dealing with today, therefore, carries forward some requirements that have been proposed, but much less than those that would have been needed. The proposed law of Brothers of Italy provided for a very important thing, that is to put an end to the truly embarrassing situation that exists in the Provinces and especially in the metropolitan cities, where there is not the popular vote, nor the universal suffrage of the citizens, but the complex vote in which only mayors and councilors are involved, who deserve all our respect and gratitude for the great work they do day by day in the administration; a job that has no breaks, has no public holidays, has no reserved hours and requires a great commitment. However, if we are in a democratic situation, the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities should also be elected by all citizens. Then there is a paradoxical situation - frankly unconstitutional in my opinion - in the metropolitan areas, where the citizens of the capital decide who is the so-called metropolitan mayor, which would then be the new name of the President of the Province, also for the municipalities of the whole Province, something that is not standing. [[Applause]] I take the example of my Province, Turin, which has 800,000 inhabitants, who decides who will be the metropolitan mayor of 300 others and passes Municipalities, which have among them more than a million inhabitants. This is a very unacceptable situation. We had carried this point forward with force. But then, with the excuse that perhaps a government bill would arrive; with the fact that someone defends, paradoxically, this reform completely sudden, also because in its time it voted, our proposal has been put aside and there are only a few rules left. We facilitated the process of this which became a bill to the Senate, so that the Senate could express itself. But we are not satisfied with all the work done and, therefore, we express a vote of abstention, recalling and emphasizing our great appreciation and the great importance that we attach to the work that is done in local authorities, in the Provinces, in the metropolitan areas and in the municipalities where thousands of citizens have a basic commitment to volunteering, but fundamental for the administration of the territory, for many services guaranteed to citizens in small and large municipalities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u34	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, kindly representative of the Government, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the measure at our examination and will do so with great conviction. This is an important measure for two reasons: it goes in the right direction and solves some problems. In supporting it we do not hide a basic truth, namely that the whole of the problems that characterize the world of local authorities is very large and that many problems remain unresolved. Today's is therefore a first step; other steps must be taken and the Democratic Party wants to work in this direction together with the other parties represented in Parliament, and hopes to do so in the same climate of general agreement with which results have been achieved in recent months. Colleagues, I think that we must free ourselves from the habit of failing to make the mayors respond to the ritual scorns of the lack of concrete facts, as unfortunately happened in the past. This is not good for the credibility of those who are called to make laws. We have all felt in this parliamentary term, at least in recent months, the need to take a step forward and create the conditions for a breakthrough. The problem of local government rules is very wide and complex and cannot be tackled with simplistic proposals, but it needs global proposals. In the Commission that I have the honour of chairing, we have tried to start a global reflection, asking us what are the main problems that today make it difficult for the municipal administrations to carry out their tasks and to live up to the great expectations that citizens have towards the level of the institutions that are closest to them. The list of causes that generate the unsatisfactory situation is very long and goes from the insufficient simplicity of the rules - too much bureaucracy, it is said, and it is a real problem in the municipalities - to the scarcity of resources, which is an issue that needs a structural approach that we have begun to put in place with the PNRR, but that we will have to see committed to making further progress. It also had to do - fortunately, we can use a verb in the past - even with a legislative framework of the mayors absolutely inadequate in relation to the responsibilities they have to face and the commitment they have to shoulder. This cause of great difficulty was fortunately removed in the budget law with an intervention in favour of the mayors concerning emoluments, which I claim because it was a courageous and important action towards a ganglion of our public administration. We now need to make further progress on issues such as the criminal responsibility of public administrators, which must necessarily be lightened so that we do not have to deal with the many absurdities and inconsistencies that we are facing today. There is a problem of erarial responsibility that in the rule that introduced our work to the PNRR has found a provisional solution that I believe must be stabilized. And then there is a general intervention to reflect on the competences of distribution of workloads that concern the municipalities and not just them. Those of us who have had the opportunity or privilege to participate in recent weeks in meetings of provincial administrators will have understood for example that, for the provincial administrators of today, the main question is not so much to return to direct election, but to be able to operate in a framework of certainties that today absolutely lacks beyond the direct nature of the election. The question concerns the duration of the mandates of provincial administrators, what competences provincial administrators must carry out and what resources they must have to carry out those competences. So, if there are so many problems to be addressed, it is clear that a general intervention is needed, which can only be the reform bill of the TUEL, which twenty years after the last organic intervention to review the rules on local authorities, is called upon to address, with an overall view, this set of issues that I have very quickly tried to outline. That is why we are waiting for this measure. We know that there will be so many points and that Parliament will be the protagonist in the process of adoption, because this is a draft law. We hope that the role that the Commissions will play may be important, like that played for this measure, at first signing Pella, which comes from the House, on which I would like to say that in the first Commission in the Senate we agreed, all our colleagues and also the opposition (I would like to thank Senator Malan), to take note of the difficult achievement of balance points that had been obtained in the House within the 1st Commission, chaired by President Brescia, which had led to the text then transmitted to the Senate. It is a text - it has been said - much more slender than the initial one, but it addresses significant problems, such as that of the third term for municipalities between 3,000 and 5,000 inhabitants: they are a thousand municipalities, many of which go to the elections in the administrative turn of June. Parliament today, when adopting the same text as the House, makes an important act, putting in place a law that will be applied from the next administrative point of view. The measure then addresses the issue of exemption from the obligations of the management control of smaller municipalities. It therefore contains important signals; we could also have the desire to do more and to include other issues, but that would have meant a third reading, to blow up the meeting point probably found in the Commission and to lengthen the time of approval of a measure which, however, with little content in terms of quantity, is of great importance and is expected by many local administrators. I liked to claim the seriousness of the work done. We know that a more general bill is coming that will address many issues and there is a reflection on these, because when we intervene on local authorities we intervene on a part of our legislation that has systemic implications and - I would say - constitutional balance. So, you have to do it with great care. We will, with an open mind, see the text that will come out and Parliament - I am sure - will take a leading role. I renew my explanation of vote in favour of this decision of the Democratic Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the draft law before us, which comes to us from the House and which - as the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has just said - we have finally decided, all together, to move forward without any further changes, is a measure whose importance, in my opinion, should not be underestimated. It is part of a series of interventions that try to respond to some - not all - absolutely fundamental questions for the flexibility - let's say - of the work of the mayors of the administrations of the Councils of Municipalities. I would like to mention here the figure on the municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants, which constitute - as the Undersecretary knows - virtually 70% of the Italian municipalities. Beyond the number itself, we know that they represent the identity of our country; we often forget it, when we talk about the importance of internal areas and the work of territories and communities. Instead, we should remember that they really represent in my opinion the important skeleton, the skeleton of our country. Why intervene on an issue, that of the third mandate, which has already been discussed so many times? The reason for this is that, in my view - and this has often been discussed in the last parliamentary term too - it puts it in a position to respond to the needs of the administrations, and therefore also to good management and good governance within the administration. Why, for example, did we intervene - a subject which, until some time ago, might have seemed to be inconvenient - in the budget law on the issue of compensation? We have a problem that anyone who does or has done the local administrator in small municipalities - in this House there are many who continue to do the mayors of small municipalities - touches with hands every time: not only the difficulty of applying increasingly complex rules, but also the great responsibility and closeness. You must never forget it: one thing is to be a mayor with so many problems, big and complex (I have made the city councilman in a big city, Rome, so I know well what is the difficulty and complexity of an administrative action and of the government of a big city), but in small municipalities the relationship with the community is continuous and constant. This gives great responsibility in a situation of considerable difficulty, often also because of the rules. Then we must take account of the difficulties of resources and staff: unwisely - I say this to the Undersecretary Scalfarotto who was also present in the last parliamentary term - we have, in my opinion, put our hand with a little lightness - I want to use this term - on some issues that were instead to be meditated on: not only that of the Provinces to which we will have to return, but also on others. I am also thinking of the question of municipal secretaries and of many aspects which are the very life of these administrations. We therefore have complicated rules, scarce resources not only economic, but staff: we have municipal secretaries and managers of technical offices often "override" as they say in jargon (because they have to cover other municipalities). In addition to all this there is a difficulty in finding candidates for mayor, because they have often been forced in so many situations to take on with their compensation the solution of a series of problems even of social order within the municipalities. We have dealt with that issue and this concerns the third mandate, which was first planned for the municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants: in my opinion, it was absolutely essential to intervene. As far as management control is concerned, we cannot have the same way of controlling the management of the larger municipalities in the smaller ones, with the difficulties I have stressed. Are these comprehensive interventions? No, they are interventions that try somehow to resolve the most striking issues and make sure that candidates to mayor are there and that people agree to run for mayor and administer their own city and municipality. We are waiting - and the Undersecretary knows perfectly well - for the reform of the TEU. Everyone will contribute to this and I believe it is absolutely essential to intervene in many ways, which are being addressed and I hope that we will arrive by the end of the legislature to approve this reform. There are many profiles and we are also dealing with other issues in another area: I am thinking of the draft law on the Court of Auditors. On a number of issues, I think we are trying to loosen up a few knots. I have the impression that we will have to think a lot more about the Provinces, because I believe that overcoming the direct election has created many problems that are not solved; moreover - let me also tell my colleagues that perhaps during the last parliamentary term they were convinced of that reform - it has produced, in my opinion, a situation not of greater transparency, but of greater opacity and difficulty in governing the larger areas, at a time when instead we have to speed up much on the mechanism of government of the territory so that there is more cooperation. Thinking also of the PNRR, I think it is absolutely necessary to have bodies that know how to ensure efficient, efficient management and absolute transparency. This draft law can guarantee this, because everyone responds when elected and certainly the second-level elections, from this point of view, are not a good proof neither of democracy nor of transparency. In conclusion, the present bill, which we of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal members of the Mixed Group will vote with conviction, is another piece that we add to a job that we hope will soon have a wider breath, through the arrival in the parliamentary classrooms of the reform of the single text of local authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u40	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am very pleased to speak on this subject and briefly summarize the content of my speech. The inconferability provided for in Article 1 provides that to those who have been sentenced, even with a judgment that has not passed to trial, according to certain articles of the Criminal Code concerning crimes against public administration, cannot be conferred top positions in the public administration or even in private law bodies under public control. Then there is another subject that has been a little on track, but very important, because it is a very simplified rule. In fact, Article 196 of the single text of local authorities is amended, according to which local authorities are required to monitor management, providing that municipalities under 5.000 inhabitants are no longer subject to management control. The Ministry has calculated that, for 6,000 municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants, the management control, which however is done in different form, involves ten working days, which is a huge amount of work in a context in which the staff is very scarce. The management control is carried out equally: the mayor does it, the Junta does it, the secretary does it; the executives do not do it because in most cases there are no, the employees who have an organizational position do it. The other content that is so much talked about, which represents the glowing news, is the third term of the mayors in the municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants. The present bill comes from the House, where it was presented by Mr Roberto Pella (it has already been said, but I would like to repeat it), who is also mayor of a country in the province of Biella, as well as vice president of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), and who with so much courage and perseverance in massive doses has carried out the text and has found a compromise. I would also like to mention the rapporteur, Mr Vitali, Mr Pagano, who has made such a nice and realistic speech, the 1st Commission and all my colleagues who have been or are directors, mayors or councillors. I would also like to mention the ANCI, with which I cooperate, and the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy (ANPCI), of which I am also an expression. The battle on the mandates began with the single text of 2000, when the Ministers and the Undersecretaries in office said (it was a different political phase) that the mayors, remaining in office for a long time, would have too much power. I have always argued that you can be mayors for different legislation, but if democracy is wrong, especially in small countries, it makes sure that you are sent home quietly. And then there are several cases. It depends on the number of inhabitants: countries with 200 inhabitants need a person who is there 24 hours a day, even on Saturdays and Sundays, when there is no one else to guarantee a minimum of services. Then, if the mandates are to be limited, the mayors say, and I agree, that this must apply to all the institutions and, possibly, also to the Regions with special statutes, that they can legitimately establish different rules. The mayors were born from the unique texts of 1865, which were 15 pages and worked. The unique text of 1934 already had 30 or 40 pages, but then there was a much larger power of order and there was the Junta. The Bassanini law represents a watershed: separation between address and management. I was already mayor at the time and the mayors of the time told me: look, if you don't command anymore, it doesn't matter anymore; you have to ask someone else. Personally, I have always resorted to article 53, paragraph 23, of Law 388 of 2000, which contains the derogation that allows the Council, for reasons of savings, to invoke to itself the functions. Of course there is civil, criminal and accounting liability, but you have to deal with the offices. It is necessary to deepen and verify whether the costs of function allowances are to be borne or not. Everything is the fault of the mayor's figure, but when there is a merit it must be shared. The mayor then has to ask someone else, he has to guarantee coverage 24 hours a day, but we don't complain. The mayors can't complain, because it's a free choice. I have always argued that having the mayor's mindset, especially in a small municipality, is a disease that can only be cured by transplanting. There's no medicine. I could tell so many episodes, but nicely I want to tell this. The day Draghi asked for the Senate to be trusted, I got a phone call. Dragons was there 10 meters away, and I got a call from a lady telling me: you have to do something, because my neighbor's dog comes to me to get dirty at my house. To me it was spontaneous to answer: I will tell Draghi. When I came home, I told it and it became a little bit the joke of the moment. The anecdote, however, has a fund of truth, because the problem of each one is his problem. Everything else doesn't matter. Today, in my country of 2,045 inhabitants I have two lights off for a few weeks, because there is a maintenance contract to be renewed. I can't get these two lights back on. When I see those who live nearby, they remind me: go explain that I have to redo the contract. There are other problems now. The Covid-19 has changed everyone's mindset, certainly that of citizens, towards public administration. There's more claim. There is a monstrous difference in judgment between yes vax and no vax, on social media, on the topics already mentioned. Now the war and the refugees: I would like to host; how can I do that? What rights do I have? Until when? The mayor takes care of and follows the beautiful events and misfortunes, which unfortunately happen in countries. This temporary solution to raise the bar and grant immediately, also for the elections of 12 June, the third mandate up to 5000 inhabitants is an intelligent choice, which in the reform of the TUEL in the coming weeks will probably be extended to 15,000 inhabitants, together with other very interesting and important reforms: the issue of the associated managements, which are dragged by Law No 122 of 2010, and the question, which I believe will then be discussed, of the distinction between functions and services. In fact, the services can, indeed, be managed in a certain form, but the functions must remain at the head of the City, the mayor, the Junta. There will also be important reforms, of which some colleagues have spoken, of the Provinces, with the return of the Councils and with greater specification of the competences and duration of the President and of the Provincial Council. There are already books, written by former mayors who want to write. One is of a mayor in charge of the province of Turin and is titled "Stories in Municipality. Stories and reflections of a mayor with his feet in the square": you must always be in the square and understand the mood of the people. There is a discussion on all these issues. There will be the reform of the TEU and there will be an open debate on so many issues, where everyone will speak. There is no strictly political and party division here, but there is the basis for experience. There are mayors of all parties on civic lists, some of whom sneakyly disguise their belongings, but it is easy to discover. But that doesn't change. Forza Italia is a party that has so many administrators, so many other parties present here, but we agree in the general and collective interest, according to the mentality and the form of conception of one's own life that I have tried to describe. Forza Italia rejoices at this measure. Tonight some colleagues will have the certainty (I speak for the Province of Cuneo, which I know more) that they can prepare to form, for the third time, a list to present to citizens who know how to vote, even when it seems that they do not understand or know the situations. Trust and certainty in democracy are what gives us strength. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u43	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the approach of the measure to the House shows that Parliament is increasingly paying attention to the small municipalities or - to say the least - to the vast majority of them, the fantastic panorama of 8,000 bell towers, whose typicality cannot be confused and distorted by the need for a handful of metropolis. We come to the House thanks to an effort by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been able to deal with the measure very quickly, since it received from the House the bill Pella, combining it here with the bill of the League, for a long time on the agenda of our Commission. I cannot fail to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on all of them Mr Parrini, and the Brothers of Italy Group, who, following an agreement, made themselves available to withdraw their amendments. We could say that this is a small reform, which allows the third consecutive mandate only to the mayors of the municipalities from 3,000 to 5,000 inhabitants, like the lower belt, but it is very significant of the trend we are running. It is confirmed that it is more effective to proceed for punctual interventions, some even mini, rather than waiting in vain for the birth of a general maxi-reform that might never see the light, at least in this legislature. [[Applause]] We owe it to the mayors, first of all, because being mayor is getting harder and harder. Those of us who have not been in this position recently find it hard to understand that it is probably even more challenging than being a Member of Parliament. Only in recent months have the mayors, in addition to all that they already did, had to face the enormous responsibilities for the management of the pandemic, the numerous PNRR calls to be prepared with few employees and municipal secretaries missing and the disproportionate increase of the energy costs and raw materials necessary for ordinary maintenance, extraordinary and new investments, to the point that it often becomes impossible to close the forecast budgets, except for an increase in local taxes (which is highly hateful at a time when citizens already suffer increases in bills and problems of work as a result of lockdown). Finally, even more recently, they face the reception of refugees from Ukraine. Today, however, this is an intervention not only in favour of the mayors, but mainly aimed at the electoral citizens who will have the opportunity, if they wish, to be represented by someone with experience and skills matured in ten years, who will not be so dispersed. [[Applause]] Today's is joined by other interventions in the field. Firstly, the allowances increased and updated, although it is necessary to remember that the Government, with the intervention in the budget law, penalized the small ones with respect to the draft parliamentary law. We must absolutely commit ourselves to correcting what has been done and we must also update the section on work permits. Secondly, the civil and criminal liability of the mayors (I always take the example of the mayor who is at trial for murder for a rock fallen from a mountain path). The measure is proceeding not very quickly in the Joint Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Justice. We have to give it back and finish before the summer. The subject is very sensitive and cannot be addressed in the somewhat clumsy way that is present in the hypothesis of reform of the TUEL, proposed by the prefects of the Ministry led by Minister Lamorgese. The issue cannot be resolved by a horizontal transfer to the administrative structure, also shifting risk with responsibility. If there is no motivation and above all the one that can have the chosen one is missing, then paralysis is at risk. I remember that the medium-small municipalities have problems of shortage and quality of staff, the employees are missing, because in the years when there was money to hire, the state has blocked the hiring and now that you can hire, there is no more money, because either you pay the increases or you pay the bills. The assumption of responsibility on the part of the managers is feasible only where the managers are there. Who have you ever seen the executives in the small municipalities? Then there is the whole issue of the provincial bodies, following the failed reform of the Delrio law, and there is the whole game of the missing municipal secretaries, whose deficiency paralyzes the administrative activity. It goes on with the bits, with the deputy secretaries, with the secretaries to climb over, with the secretaries shared among 10 municipalities: you can't work in this way, it's not civilized country. [[Applause]] The solution cannot even be that of the associated managements. You all know of the criticism of the ANCI, to which was added yesterday the rejection of the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy (ANPCI). Now the mayors, after managing a pandemic, must manage the arrival of the refugees, do magic with the budget in order to be able to pay everything, without knowing what will happen if the war does not end, and the principle of guilt is still valid to them. Without respecting the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the reform says in practice that a mayor of a small municipality must prove that he is not an incompetent person and that he is able to provide adequate services to citizens - on the basis of which criteria it is not known - or is obliged to associate. It is madness, the result of a centralist and borbonic vision. [[Applause]] When Covid was there and the mayors were on the front line alone, no one wondered if they were able, alone and with the employees unfortunately at home, to help their people. On the other hand, we must give confidence to local administrators and, therefore, we must take steps like this and believe me that there are very few mayors in the second term now who are swaying to do the third, under these conditions. In conclusion, the Lega Group will vote strongly in favour of this draft law, because we are going in the right direction, but there is still a long way to go. Certainly, when there are still vital issues for local authorities, the League will be at the forefront and ready also to play a role of pungolo, to give the right gratitude to those people who give up their professional and personal life, to make themselves available to their community. To the mayors of any political color we say that the League is and will always be at their side. [[Applause.]] 18.18 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u46	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of local authorities is one of the most sensitive in our system, both because of the importance attached to them in the Constitution and because of the repercussions their management has in the everyday life of all of us. We must admit this without too many words, Mr President: management is made even more difficult for local administrators by the complex regulatory framework that has come to stratify over time, as well as by austerity policies, even in terms of generational change in the past years. For the Movimento 5 Stars the attention to the theme of local authorities has always been maximum, but how? Certainly through the many interventions that we have carried out, starting from the 2019 budget law, through which we have helped to close the sad chapter of austerity policies and given the start, with the unblocking of turnover, to a present and to a future of hiring in the public administration. Thanks to the so-called rule of Spain, born from the first budget law of this legislature, the Italian municipalities were able to finance 8,200 public housing interventions, with schools, roads and viaducts put in safety. With the refinancing of the same norm in the decree increase of 2019, those participations are doubled to quota 16.000. Resources have been allocated for investments for the safety of road and bridge works, for interventions aimed at the contrast of hydrogeological failure and for improvements in public buildings, beginning with schools. The municipalities are the institutional garrison closest to the citizens; giving them more resources means investing extensively on the future of the country. The budget law for 2022 goes in this direction, with a series of rules such as the extension of the standard costs for schools and roads also in the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities and the increase of the Municipal Solidarity Fund for social functions and kindergartens. Most of the NRP funds will go to finance local investments and projects, through which territorial inequalities will continue to be reduced. In this context of attention to the lives of local authorities and therefore citizens, the draft law under consideration is also included, which intervenes in a limited way in three significant areas, which on the one hand allow to increase transparency and the prevention of corruption and on the other hand simplify the red tape for small municipalities. The first concerns the compatibility requirements of the top positions of public administrations; thanks to an amendment by our colleague to the Chamber of Ficara, we have extended to private bodies governed by public law the inconferability of top administrative positions for those who have been convicted of crimes against public administration, even if they have not gone to trial. A further garrison of legality and transparency of our public administration, in full coherence with the entire political history of the Movimento 5 Stars. The second intervention is of an accounting nature. Thanks to an amendment by my colleague Baldino to the House, we simplify the life of the municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, freeing them from the management control, a complex and complex procedure of data collection and constant verification of the objectives that little befits very small administrations. Finally, the third intervention raises from two to three the limit of the consecutive mandates for the mayors of the municipalities alone with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, maintaining the ceiling of the two mandates for the larger municipalities. This derogation from the limit of mandates, thanks to the action of the Movimento 5 Stars, has been limited, with respect to the initial intentions, to the small municipalities only, in the awareness that it is not the increase of the mandates of the mayors to solve the problem of the detachment from the active participation to the political life to which we are witnessing in recent years. Continuing to put on patches, President, will not solve the trend and disaffection. It is clear that these specific measures do not put an end to the need for the overall restyling of local authorities. For a long time the Government has been working on a delegated law for the reform of the single text of local authorities. In this work of complete revision it will be necessary to redefine the organization of the territorial authorities of our country: it will be necessary to redefine organically the role of the metropolitan cities and above all of the Provinces, remaining bodies unfinished and suspended in the expectation of constitutional reforms never happened, whose operation has been undermined over the years by short-sighted and contradictory reforms, to which someone, making amends, should remedy. It will be necessary to redefine its role in relation to the tasks entrusted to the Municipalities, which need certain ways of carrying out the functions assigned to them in associated form, in optimal areas that allow to obtain economies of scale and efficiency of the services provided. The framework that should emerge from the rewriting of the TUEL should not provide the perception of a reorganisation of the territorial authorities only in a framework of redeployment of public offices. For this reason as Movimento 5 Stars we would like to give the country a reform of the TUEL that gives a clear order of the tasks for each territorial agency, that it deburs the obligations for the smaller municipalities and that it grants the municipalities in economic difficulty economic procedures for the financial sustainability of the same. At the same time, we would like to avoid seeing rules that go to widen the links related to incompatibility between offices, because being local administrator is an institutional mission of extreme value and importance for the community and not - or at least not only - the cursus honorum to aspire to higher political positions. Therefore, the proper attention and institutional sense on the part of all should be given to this mission. Looking forward to this overall reform framework for local authorities, we are now announcing that we will vote in favour of this first legislative action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u47	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 2462, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 2242 and 2214.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on the draft law n 1371, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u49	Mr President, the bill of parliamentary initiative, which was adopted at first reading in the House and is now before the Senate Assembly, establishes the National Day of Alpine Memory and Sacrifice. The date chosen is that of January 26, in memory of the battle of Nikolajewka, fought on January 26, 1943 and which was one of the most significant clashes that saw the Alpine troops involved during the Second World War. Military historiography recalls that episode for the example of courage, body spirit and a high sense of duty offered by all the Alpines involved in the fight. The Alpine Corps was formed on October 15, 1872, a specialty, that of the Alpines with territorial recruitment, which immediately became the pride of the mountain people, as recalled also in the debate in the Commissions of the Chamber, which fed it with the best youth and is certainly one of the most successful pages of Italian national culture. We certainly do not have to explain here the reasons for the appreciation that all Italians have for the alpine, as well as for all the other Corps of the Armed Forces, of course. The Alps have distinguished themselves not only in the wars of the past, but also in the uses of the present. Let us remember their commitment to the relief of the civilian populations who have seen them in the front row in so many disasters that have struck our country since the time when there was no civil protection, from the Vajont disaster of 1963, from the various floods to the earthquakes that have struck our country. I would also like to mention the commitment to international military missions, from Mozambique to the Balkans, from Afghanistan to Lebanon. In the Defence Committee we held a series of hearings involving the President of the National Council of Weapons Associations, the Army's Chief of Staff and the President of the National Alpine Association. At the end of which, after extensive discussion, the measure was adopted unanimously. In detail, the measure consists of 5 articles. Article 1 recognizes on January 26 of each year as a National Day of Memory and Sacrifice of the Alps, as mentioned in the premise, in order to preserve the memory of the heroism demonstrated by the Alpine Corps at the Battle of Nikolajewka, also establishing that all related initiatives normally take place on the last Sunday of January. Article 2 provides for the organization of ceremonies, events, meetings, historical conferences and photographic exhibitions, with the involvement, where possible, of the National Alpine Association, which with more than a hundred years of activity represents a very important aggregate reality in the panorama of our country that has distinguished itself for the solidarity and readiness with which it has reacted to the emergencies that have struck our country. The Day is not considered a civil solemnity, as set out in Article 3. Article 4 encourages schools of every order and grade, within their autonomy, to promote initiatives on this occasion. Finally, Article 5 provides for the provision of financial invariance. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that, at the request of Senator Gasparri, the Defence Commission, without prejudice to the unanimous recognition that the bill assigns to the alpines, has made its own and unanimously approved an agenda that underlines the precious contribution that all the bodies of the Armed Forces have always provided to the country in the various tasks entrusted to them and has intended to commit the Government to valorize in every form the celebrations promoted to celebrate the different bodies of the Armed Forces, ensuring an adequate participation of the associationism in the reference weapon.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u50	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u53	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, as I was preparing to reorder the ideas to intervene on this bill, I could think of many thoughts and many memories: the first festivals in which I participated as a child of the Alpine group in my country, where I listened to the stories of the last veterans of the First World War, the famous Knights of Vittorio Veneto; the shiny eyes of a sergeant of the Alpine battalion "Monte Cervino," who described to me the tragic events of the retreat of Russia, like the many, too many, comrades in arms left forever on the frozen steppe; the memories of my military service in the Alpine Corps, as a medical officer of the Alpine battalion "Aosta" to the Alpine military school and the pride of carrying the hat with the black pen, which still today, when I sock it, causes me an emotion difficult to retain. "Alpinit" is a noun that gathers in itself many concepts: courage, altruism, solidarity, defense of democracy, international peacekeeping missions, sporting successes, protection of mountain values, frankness. The Alps, with our National Association, are always present, in the joy, in the pain and in the life of our communities. The list of beneficial initiatives that the National Alpine Association regularly carries out over the years would be long: one for all is the Alpine Star operation, with which every year the funds dedicated to the neediest and the weakest are collected. Therefore, remembering with a special day, on January 26 of each year, this great reality with a huge heart and strong spirit, as are the Alps of Italy, is a commendable initiative and above all of respect for the many thousands of young people who died in the wars with the alpine hat. On January 26, 1943, the battle of Nikolajewka, among other things masterfully put into music by Master Bepi De Marzi, marked one of the most tragic moments of the Italian military events in the Second World War: a campaign of Russia that saw us on the wrong side. We were the aggressors of a people and the withdrawal of the Armir was the epilogue of many wrong and criminal choices that also involved the Alpine divisions of Julia, Tridentina, Cuneense; for us Valdostani was the famous battalion .Mount Matterhorn involved, a sort of special department ante litteram, which was employed in the plains of Don. 600 Alpines left and on their return, parading under the arch of Augustus of Aosta, were just over 50. The value of these men, of the alpines, was recognized by both sides, so much so that the only part in front of never being ripped was the one held by the alpine divisions. There was even an episode to remember this particular: the famous German company that produced accordions by mouth, the Hohner, dedicated after these facts a product that was called "Bravi alpini" and that became, precisely, one of the most famous accordions by mouth. In this year, in which the 150th year of the foundation of the Alpine Corps also occurs, I cannot but recall the enormous commitment of the Alpines in arms to the constant maintenance of peace in international missions, as well as the untiring presence and work of the National Alpine Association with its sections, up to the smallest groups for the good of our communities. This year for us Valdostani is also the hundredth anniversary of the decoration of the flag of the battalion "Aosta" with the gold medal to the military valor for the events of the First World War, as it happened for the Alpine battalion "Monte Cervino" for the Russian campaign. Mr President, in these tragic moments of war between Russia and Ukraine, something we would have never imagined and never wanted to happen, the memory and sacrifice of the Alps is a perpetual warning to the young generations of the devastation of weapons. Never more violence, never more brutality, but a future of peace and solidarity between nations. Long live the alpine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u56	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no better way to do an act of justice than we do today with the establishment of the National Day of Alpine Memory and Sacrifice, identifying it on 26 January, in memory of the sacrifice - the previous colleague has already mentioned it - of the battle of Nikolajewka on 26 January 1943. This measure has a dual meaning: a symbolic one and a decidedly more concrete one, and I will speak very briefly about both of them. The first meaning is symbolic and we must start from an objective fact: the Alpine Corps really represents a unique in the military world, not only Italian but also international. We remember that he was the first armed corps founded in the new Italian national state, in 1872, and still today represents in the military world an absolute excellence of the military instrument itself; he has extraordinary skills, exclusive operational skills and it is known that they are used to working in the hardest, hardest and most difficult terrain. Despite this, they are always present on missions abroad to safeguard the security and affirmation of democratic values. If we were to seek only one peculiarity of this military body, we could say that it lies precisely in their ability to be different. Among other things, what strikes - we all know and I believe that we feel it as our own - is the fact that the Alpine Corps has always managed to create a close relationship with neighbour, with the people, with all civil society, to the point of giving shape to an integration that we believe is not equal to the world among the military bodies. The Alpines have always distinguished themselves as a force of peace and volunteering in missions in Italy and abroad, and they are truly a point of reference for everyone, in the first place for their attachment to tradition; despite this attachment to tradition, moreover, they have always manifested great will and great capacity for innovation. They have always accompanied the crucial stages of our country's growth and objectively we all know that we are familiar with that uniform, with that hat with the pen, and we all have a sort of deep affection towards this institution. We know that they have always been present in all important events for the nation: cultural events, leisure, sports, assistance to the most fragile and a constant and assiduous commitment to promote and support any activity in favour of the communities. This is the symbolic meaning of this Day. Instead, we come to the most concrete meaning, which I believe is also the most important one. How can we ensure that the values of which the Alps are the symbol, and to which we look for the reasons I have expressed earlier, can give concreteness to the celebration of this Day and make sure that it is not, as has already happened other times, simply the umpteenth anniversary without a deeper meaning? I believe that it is appropriate and necessary to focus on the second part of this bill, i.e. on the youngest. The world has changed its face today, it has become much more accessible and in some ways simpler; but some values have perhaps faded or perhaps we have not been able to transmit them and spread them among the youngest. I believe that the example shown by the Alps can represent a great lesson of coexistence, civilization, but also of dialogue, confrontation and acceptance for all of us, but above all for the younger generations. In my opinion, it is not only desirable, but it is even necessary that this day can offer a starting point for reflection in the future to our children, who represent the future of the country and need to recover those values of which the alpine are the most tenacious depositaries, so that they can be transmitted to the next generations. Let's think about the work they have always done to help the people during calamitous events: even when civil protection did not exist, the Alpines were there. The Alpine spirit, which is made up of dedication and will to contribute to the common good, has always offered an extraordinary demonstration of its abilities and generosity, which have never failed, even recently, because even with the tragic events that we are living in everyday life, which are taking place in Ukraine, the Alpine people did not want to miss their support, sending in recent days, through the Civil Protection of the National Alpine Association, several ambulances to contribute to the relief operations of the populations that really need it. This is the last demonstration of the concrete capacity for intervention of a community that in recent years has always been able to pay attention to the needs of the people, to the defense of an identity and a common feeling. All of us have always followed with attention and affection the national gathering that takes place every year and is an extraordinary thing, because in this event really those values are spread and we understand the corporate values that unite them, the friendship that is the basis of everything and above all the will to help others, to help others. These are objectively values that we cannot fail to achieve, and that is why the measure is particularly important. For the presence always active in relation to the needs of the community, but also for the solidity that has proved itself over many years until becoming, as I said, a point of reference for everyone and especially for the most fragile people and in the most difficult moments of our communities, I believe that they must be thanked by all of us and I am sure to interpret the will of all when I address a warm thanks to the alpine people for what they have always done. I believe that in order to give concreteness to this thanks there is no better way than to set up a day in their honour and especially in the memory of the great sacrifices they have always made for the people. Therefore, the Italian Socialist Group Viva-Partito Italiano will vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u59	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, for an exponent of the Brothers of Italy, who before being a majority or opposition party, is a political force that has the values of the Homeland in its DNA, it can only be an honor and a moment of emotion to take the floor to express its vote in favour of the establishment of a day that must recognize the role that the Alpine Corps has had and continues to have in the history of Italy. When we talk about the Alps, Mr President, we are not only talking about a body, one of the main pillars of the Italian Armed Forces, but also about a reality that is a pillar of civil protection, a reality that today is almost fundamental in determining the solidarity that unites the Italian people. This is the Alpine Corps, these are the Alps. And so says a senator who didn't make the alpine, who wasn't lucky enough to be an alpine, but he has an alpine father, a father of ninety-nine years, still alive, who could glorify himself with the presence in the Alpine Corps. I am part of a territory, Trentino Alto Adige, in which the feeling of brotherhood towards this military body is really important. For us, the Alps have always been, beyond politics and even beyond age, a reference point. I believe that in our valleys, in our countries, in our territories there are opportunities to be confronted with the solidarity of the alpine, young and old. When we talk about the Alps, when we have to recognize the role that the Alps have in the history of our country, we certainly refer first of all, as well highlighted in the bill, to the battle of Nikolajewka, a battle that, as someone before me said, was not only heroic from the military point of view, but it was a battle that really allowed many Italians to gain esteem and respect, regardless of the historical moment in which they lived. So, this is an acknowledgment that history must bestow on the glory of the Alpine Corps. [[Applause]] The Alpines are represented by a simple symbol, but recognized by children of all ages: the black pen, which can be declined in the brown or white color of the generals, which is one of the symbols of Italianity; next to the tricolor, I really believe that the Alpine pen as a symbol of this country is surely recognized in a cross-cutting way. A symbol that approaches the motto of the Alps, a motto that we must remember to ourselves, to every citizen. The motto: "This is where you don't pass." We must reflect on what it means, on the topicality of that motto, today as then, today as tomorrow. From here one does not pass it certainly indicates the defense of the borders, of which Brothers of Italy boasts. I remember, especially to those who exhumed the tricolor during the World Cup of football, that defense of borders means defence of values; it means defence of traditions; it means defence of the heritage of our fathers. That's patriotism. This is the love of homeland. This, in fact, represents the defense of borders. Defense that the alpine have always exercised with honor and glory and deep respect for the opponents. But defense of borders also means something else: it also means the confrontation between good and evil and knowing always be on the side of good. When there are calamities, when there are tragedies, when there are pandemics, since we are living, unfortunately, also this epoch, in those moments the Alps are there, because this means, in that case, the defense of the borders. This means that we do not pass from here. This isn't where the evil goes, this is where the negativity doesn't pass. The alpine is a bulwark of good. The Alpine bulwark of solidarity, the Alpine bulwark of our values. We must remember this and we must remember this every January 26, because it is a debt we owe to all those soldiers and to all those soldiers who, in the past as in the present, defend our territory and our values. Mr President, I conclude with a current and political reflection. From this point of view we should start by reconsidering compulsory military service, a military service that could give many young people a definite commitment, of course, to training. Of course we must not go back, but we must re-evaluate a service that allows our young people to acquire civic awareness and enable them to feed that chain of solidarity represented by the National Alpine Association, which is unfortunately falling in numerical terms for the ageing of their members, but that each of us knows how important it is in the chain of solidarity. We can therefore also draw political reflection from the recognition of their role and of this important Day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u62	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, with this measure we do not intend to celebrate only one fact of arms, namely the battle of 26 January 1943, during which, despite the encircling, our troops in Nikolajewka managed to escape and - gradually - to return home. We mean this recognition as the tribute that, starting from Nikolajewka and until today, the Republic owes to so many people who have served the Homeland, allowed freedom and democracy and who still offer their time and knowledge for the support of social activities. It is no coincidence that that battle is remembered in so many manifestations and with the title of many squares and streets. It is not because it was a clear expression of value that made Italians examples to emulate. "Keep the memory of heroism demonstrated": this is how Article 1 of the measure states. But why are we talking about heroes? Aren't we talking about soldiers who had a duty to fight in war? Instead, they were heroes because they had to act anyway, they had no certainty that they could make it and they faced those difficult conditions with dignity and contempt of danger, even at the cost of their lives, which at that time was not that of the individual soldier, but, being the common destiny, that of a whole community of soldiers. Well, resuming the memory of these deeds and this certainty is nothing more than education to life and induction to personal responsibilities in a socially common framework. The Day that is established by this law, therefore, does not look only at 26 January 1943, indeed. In fact, the measure aims to promote the values that embody the Alps in the defence of national sovereignty and interest, in the ethics of civil participation, solidarity and volunteering. This is an obvious cultural passage that has as its target the younger generations. Therefore, recognition is projected from then until today, because there is a common thread: yesterday as today, the Alps are at the service of the country, fortunately in different conditions but always at the service. Yesterday as today, the Alpines have always manifested a deep attachment to the Homeland and supported democracy in the various forms in which their commitment has been expressed. It is in that commitment that the national interest and civil participation burn brightly, in a solidarity dimension that Nikolajewka expressed by making available his life for the salvation of many and today his time and abilities in support of the most difficult situations, not only human. A common thread links these two expressions: belonging to an organization that has been able to create that spirit of Body, so as to allow all this. The question at this point is simple: is it right to recognise the role of these organisations? Does it make sense, at this moment, to remember a fact of arms and, consequently, what today remembers and brings together the former military who have been part of it? In support of this, it is good to recall the provisions of Article 2 of the Constitution: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. Solidarity is a value that is promoted by the bill in question, together with the ethical-social commitment to others, aimed at meeting the needs and inconveniences of anyone who needs help. The citizen can therefore express social solidarity, in reference to social formations, to work for the good of all, with active and responsible commitment. Therefore, the Alpines, united in their national association, adhere well to this constitutional forecast and in fact transform in substance that dictation, which, as you know, is originated by the Resistance and by facts just like those of Nikolajewka, with their daily commitment. There are so many other gun associations that have been mentioned on an agenda, which has been approved in the Defence Commission and which is also a thought of gratitude to them. In the light of this conviction, the recognition proposed by the draft law under consideration is not a static fact, but it is a dynamic support to continue on the path they have largely taken. To those normal people, to those ordinary people who yesterday fought for Italy and today makes this law available to the country, it is also a thank you: thanks heard for what you do and will do, free from any return and ambition. Thanks to this, the Democratic Party's vote is firmly in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u65	Mr Berutti (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, the measure we are about to vote has taken place in the House of Deputies, at the initiative of Mr Golinelli, of the Lega Group, but the bill has been signed by 75 Members. In June 2019, the House of Deputies approved the text as brought to the Assembly by the Commission, with its favourable opinion. The Montecitorio Assembly approved, with a very large majority, as I believe and hope it will be in this House. During the examination of the measure, the representatives of the National Alpine Association (ANA) and the head of the Historical Office of the Military Staff were audited in the Defence Commission, which added value to the legislative initiative. When we approve measures to call for a national day, the ultimate aim is to remember, celebrate and keep alive the memory, not to forget. In this case, this evocative day concerns the story that we have the duty to tell and commemorate because, even if compulsed and overwhelmed by the present, we have the duty to protect the past, so as to leave a necessary trace of it to future generations. A generation that ignores history, has not passed, but has no future. The aim of the measure, which was strongly supported and wanted by the National Alpine Association, is to enshrine the memory of the battle of Nikolajewka, fought by the alpines on 26 January 1943, and to pass on to the new generations, I quote Article 1 of the measure, the values of the defence of sovereignty and national interest, as well as the ethics of civil participation, solidarity and volunteering, which the alpines embody. The battle of Nikolajewka, in fact, is remembered for the example of courage, of a spirit of sacrifice and of the highest sense of duty demonstrated by all the Alpines who participated in the fight, without distinction of rank, nor even less of origin. It was a fierce clash, in which thousands of young men lost their lives and many were taken captive, but it was thanks to all of them if the troops managed to reach Sebekino and escape. The draft law also provides for the celebrations that are included in Article 2, to be held on the occasion of the anniversary, on 26 January. ANA has always celebrated this day and we practically ratify this event today. In fact, the text provides that the competent bodies of each Province or equivalent body can promote and organize ceremonies, events, meetings, historical conferences and photographic exhibitions, as well as testimonies on the importance of national sovereignty, cultural and historical identities, tradition and ethical values of solidarity and civil participation that embodies the Alpine Corps. Moreover, the law, precisely in view of the high educational, social and cultural value that will cover the National Day of the Memory of the Alpine Sacrifice, gives schools of every order and degree, within their autonomy, the possibility to promote initiatives for the celebration of the same day. On January 26 it will be the day that celebrates the feats of the Alps. For me, as a former Alpine, today is a particularly important day. I am happy and proud, as a former Alpine, to be here today as a senator and to vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]] , which is certainly a law if we want simple, but no less important for this. Today will be an important day for all the Alps, which have existed for more than a century and which see as they recognize their particular and extraordinary work. The Alpines were officially formed on October 15, 1872, as specialties of the infantry weapon intended for use in the defense of the passes and in the war in the mountains. Their symbol, the black pen, is a source of pride for the history of Italy. A unique spirit of body, great determination and territorial recruitment were the strengths of the Alpine troops. From the act of their constitution the alpine have always distinguished themselves not only because of the regional and local character in their unity, but above all because they themselves, their union constitutes a community linked to the territory that is composed of whoever is or has been an alpine. It is significant to remember that in peacetime the alpine have carried out both military tasks of defence of the alpine arch, as well as tasks of rescue and assistance in occasion of natural disasters (from the earthquake of Messina to that of L'Aquila their contribution has always been fundamental) or in international missions, as we all remember. And it is above all in these cases that the work of these men has distinguished itself for the altruism and the momentum with which they have provided their assistance to the affected populations, thanks to one of their peculiarities: their extraordinary operation, which is nothing more than a fusion of professional military personnel and volunteers able to coordinate with efficiency and timeliness all the intervention and rescue activities. This law adds to the value that was solemnly recognized by the President of the Republic, who awarded the ANA of the gold medal to the civil valor. The values that embody the Alps deserve to be celebrated and told to our children and future generations. Young people must know that the Alps represent a long and noble tradition of courage and sacrifice at the service of the country and the Italian community, symbol of national identity and absolute dedication. That is why I voted in favour of the Mixed Group, in the Idea-Cambiamo components!, Italy at the Centre, Europeanists, LEU-Ecosolidali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u68	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a figure is enough perhaps to explain the moral value of this law. When the Alpine troops left to reach Russia, they occupied 200 trains; on the return they were enough 17, because the fallen in that affair (especially in the battle of Nikolajewka, the tragic event that was chosen to identify the date) had dramatic significance. Each of the divisions that made up that Alpine Corps was made up of 16,000 men; the survivors were 6,400 of the Tridentine, 3,300 of the Julia and 1,300 of the Cuneense. This is to remember in terms, alas, even more drastic and dramatic the scope of that sacrifice, as well as many others that the Alpine troops have lived in Italian history. The Forza Italia Group, of course, shares this law that imposes without charge for the State - no one cares - for the 26th January of each year this National Day of Memory and Sacrifice of the Alps. Colleagues have described with historical data and with various episodes what the Alps represent in Italian history and it is difficult to add anything else. However, I invite all my colleagues who had never had this good fortune to participate, if it happens to them, in the Alpine meeting that is held annually. We also hope that now, in the post-Covid, with the dimensions and in the way of friendship and solidarity that characterized these events, the assembly will return to celebrate even more an Italian moment. I have to say, it's a unique experience. It has happened to me sometimes to participate and the cities that host this event are positively upset. I still remember when I was very young, many years ago - I think it was the '70s or the early '80s - that once the meeting of the alpine people was held in Rome (a rare event, because they are tendentially the cities of the North that host it): a city accustomed to everything - because in Rome happens everything: the Popes and the Presidents of the Republic die and elect themselves - and also a bit cynical in some ways, because accustomed to living history in many dimensions, it was overwhelmed and affected, because an event so joyful and so rich in humanity is difficult to see. Our assessment, therefore, is absolutely favourable for the reasons set out above. We must also stress that the popularity of the Alpine people derives from the fact that in civil protection and in the organizations on the territory, especially in some parts of Italy, the generosity of the Alpine troops, which remain morally such even when they have left the military service, has manifested itself in many dramatic events and calamities that have unfortunately characterized the life of our country. Why, then, did this law take eight to nine years to arrive in the Chamber? In the last parliamentary term, it was also discussed at the Senate for a long time, because some of us in the Defence Commission - as the rapporteur Mr Vattuone recalled - alongside the sacrifice of the Alpine troops and the law that today reminds us, once again, wanted to emphasize that of other Italian soldiers, otherwise we would not be honest. I have recalled the size of the Russian affair, with 200 trains left and 17 returned, which may not have the same in recent history, although of the past century, of military tragedies. However, in the Commission we also proposed to extend the memory to other realities, and I, with an amendment that I then withdrew to ensure that the path of the law was unanimous, also took note of what emerged from the hearings of the combative and armed associations in the other legislature, which were heard and which numerous claimed the right to remember their sacrifices as well. The numbers of the alpine are unreachable, however the sacrifice of the people in uniform cannot be evaluated only on the level of numbers and therefore we had mentioned in the Commission that of the grenadiers, of the bersaglieri, remembering Enrico Toti, of the aviators, remembering Francesco Baracca, protagonist of Italian history and of the Italian sacrifice [[Applause]] , and the sacrifice of the Italian infantry in the heroic battle of Piave (therefore the date could also be that of May 24, which all Italians learned, because at least once one learned at school). Should not parachutists also be solemnly remembered on the day of the battle of El Alamein, or the Carabinieri, on the day of the office of Pastrengo, which is celebrated with the carousel and the charge of the Carabinieri? [[Applause]] The same applies to other bodies of the State (police, fire department and finance guard). There had been some discussion of this in the Commission, and then we finally agreed, as is the case in Parliament, not to give the impression that we had opposed this law, with an agenda which the rapporteur, Mr Vattuneo, mentioned earlier, to invite Parliament - ourselves - to assess that it is a cost-free day and everyone has their own feast. We know that the Police, the Carabinieri and the Army each have their own feast; also the Alpines already have the assembly and the anniversaries, to which this is added. The agenda therefore invites us to evaluate the hypothesis of specific initiatives in schools and in teaching, in days when, dear colleagues - the words I have heard today I carry them inside my head - the Defense and the Armed Forces are again an essential element of the life of the peoples. [[Applause]] Italy repudiates war, but does not suffer aggression. The debate has reopened these days in Italy. A survey is made by asking if peace or war is wanted: but which of us would answer that war wants? But if you ask if you want a people to be exterminated and attacked and a nation invaded or that people defend themselves, I think that in similar percentages you would say that it is right to defend themselves. If there is no defense, there is no life of peoples. Mr President, in conclusion, we share the law in our examination to pay tribute, together with the whole of Parliament, to the Alpine troops of yesterday, to the fallen of Russia, to the fallen of every war and to the young people. Today there is no more mandatory lever, which certainly drew many among the Alpine troops, and the Armed Forces became professional. Alpines always stay alpine, they are the most supportive and ready. Other bodies and other Forces that I wanted to remember should also be united in this gesture of homage. That was what was discussed in the Commission for many years. It was a moral and cultural debate on the importance of all the Armed Forces. The Alpines then have their own strength and history that stands out in the memory and sensitivity of all, but in voting this law we wanted to remember all the others and others as well. I would remind you that for some years now women in the armed forces on peace missions around the world have contributed to the values of freedom and democracy. These days we are rediscovering dramatically - even if we would not have wanted this to happen because of the invasion of Ukraine - that defence, energy and agri-food activities are fundamental to the independence of a nation and I would say Europe itself. Let us then reflect on yesterday's sacrifices, set up the Day for the memory and sacrifice of the alpines, but then let us also remember those who wear the uniform today. [[Applause]] , their economic rights, their sacrifice, their effort and their essentiality. As we recalled days ago, we needed those divided after the earthquakes, when there was to vaccinate the population and when there is to be rescued anyone. Thanks therefore to the alpine, but also to all the armed forces of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u69	I thank Senator Gasparri for his passionate intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u72	CORTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Pucciarelli, the Undersecretary and the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, as well as to our Parent Company in the Defence Commission, his friend and colleague Massimo Candura, for the patience and mediation capacity he has found with all the members of the Defence Commission. Dear colleagues, the measure that we will shortly vote, I hope unanimously, is a source of great emotion for me, not only because, by fatality, we are discussing it on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Alpine Corps, but also because it anticipates the 93rd event of the National Alpine Association (ANA) in Rimini by an exact month. I believe that with the vote in favour of this House, the more than 200,000 alpine people who are going to do so on 8 May will do so even more head-to-head and proud of the institutions. For a senator and a mountaineer like me, raised on bread and alpine, this is an unforgettable day. I have the great fortune not only to be a descendant of an alpine family, but above all to be part of the great Alpine family, which I have been very close to since the age of nine, when my grandfather involved me in the social activities of the alpine group of my country, Montefiorino. I am so attached to this Corps that I still feel sorry for not being judged fit for military service. As a partner ANA, a friend of the Alps, however, I have never been burdened and proudly, when possible, cross-referenced with my group. While my appeal was still pending on the Senate, I asked Modena deputy Golinelli, whom I thank, to present to the House this bill, then approved there unanimously in June 2019. I must say that it was not easy to identify the two important words that grasped its meaning: memory and sacrifice. We talk about "memory" because it is a specialty of the Alpines with territorial recruitment, which immediately became the pride of the mountain people and the valleyrs, who fed it with their best youth. The Alpines have not forgotten this, when they returned home from military service, and have always maintained that bond of friendship and fraternity with the comrades. For this reason, in almost every village and fraction of our Alpine and Apennine valleys, stands an ANA headquarters, where the former conscripts were able to continue to remain at the service of their community. Then there is the word "sacrifice," which is the thing that the Alpines, since their foundation, have always known and respected without fear. Those who live in the mountains and in the inland areas know well what it is, even in the common life, even today, from agriculture to school, from road to communications. The alpine sacrifice has proved it in all the wars in which they participated, but they have demonstrated it even more in all the activities of volunteering and civil protection in which they are worthy of admiration. We now come to the date of the celebration, on January 26 of each year: the unfortunate date, although it was that of a battle, at Nikolajewka, is the synthesis of what are the words "memory" and "sacrifice," that is, the spirit of fraternity. On January 26, 1943, the now exhausted Alpine troops of the Tridentina division and the disbanded Alpines of the Julia and Cuneense divisions found themselves in front of the Russian barrier of Nikolajewka. These troops had been surrounded and then sacrificed a month earlier on the banks of the Don to allow the withdrawal of what remained of the Armir, but also of Germans, Romanians and Hungarians, overwhelmed by Operation Piccolo Saturn. At the time of the retreat order, the alpines still counted 52,000 actual men, who, though surrounded and without hope, had held the positions assigned to them until that fateful January 17, 1943, when they began their terrible advance backwards, which lasted nine days, with twenty-five battles of breakout and rearguard. By opening the way, the Tridentina division, thanks also to the sacrifice of the sister divisions Julia and Cuneense, transformed the retreat into the most unstoppable and tragic advance in enemy territory that has ever been seen. In inhuman conditions due to lack of food and shelter, with very little ammunition, without means of transport, if not sleds attached to the faithful mules, with temperatures of 40 degrees below zero, the alpines saved their lives to themselves and to a mass of Italian, German, Romanian and Hungarian prisoners released and aggregated in the long column. If these Alpines had no memory of their distant homes, their families and their country, they would not have found the necessary strength; if they had not had a spirit of sacrifice, the wounded would not have put themselves on their shoulders, they would not have divided the little food left with all the sloppers who sat down to the long column and could not have shown themselves to the fatal clash of Nikolajewka, which allowed 13,240 men to come out of the bag. Mario Rigoni Stern wrote pages that I believe all of us have had the opportunity to appreciate, in which we read the despair, but at the same time also the humanity of that January 26. Alpini rescued by a companion, officers who die at the head of their men, waiters who stop to weep them: they are just some of the episodes of that tragic battle of Nikolajevka, which culminates in the scene of General Reverberi, commander of the Tridentina, who climbed on the last remaining semountant leads the crucial battle and personally guides the survivors to the assault. Let me read the poem of Lieutenant Nelson Cenci of the 2nd Alpine Artillery Regiment Vicenza: A sunrise that had hope in the soul of the sun. For vast pastures of snow under a death - plowing sky, on your bumps the audacity to seek life was worn out several times. Only at the end of the day, with desperate cry, epic host of ghosts passed through half a murmur of prayers. Now the sun goes down on the top of the ridge bathing with light your dead and, in a wind of clouds, your lonely weeping to distant heavens flees. No more harsh lands and mountain profiles in their glass eyes, but long mute rows of men on ice trails. The track is made of stars and moon crystals turn off on miserable unnamed crosses. The tragic epic of the Alpine Corps, however, does not end that evening on January 26, 1943, but only when the survivors always reach Shebekino on foot on January 31. On February 3, the day of San Biagio, on the radio Benito Mussolini announces that only 10,000 Alpines have come out of the bag, and February 8, the statement n. 630 of the Red Army declares that only the Alpine Corps must be considered unbeaten in the land of Russia. On March 6, 1943 the translations that brought the survivors of the Alpine Corps back to Italy began from Gomel; on the 15th the last convoy left and on March 24 all were in the Homeland. As the friend and colleague Senator Gasparri already recalled, the numbers were inclement: only 6,400 of the Tridentine, 3,300 of the Julia and 1,300 of the Cuneense saved and came out of the bag. The tragic retreat of Russia ended mockingly for the alpine people when they returned to their homeland. Few know this, but at the station in Merano, where they expected to be received as heroes by the same bands that with great ceremony had greeted them the year before the departure, the local authorities had the anti-aircraft alarm sounded, because it was better that the population did not see the pitiful state of the veterans, frozen, mutilated, wounded, without shoes and with the uniforms to shreds. This, however, is now history, the one that the veterans told the new levers in the ANA locations of our valleys, together with that art of arranging that a bit distinguishes us mountainers. And in the same places where the last veterans of the Great War were venerated by the veterans of the Second, we younger ones learned what the great alpine family was, the one that never leaves anyone behind and takes off the sled a box of ammunition and loads a wounded man. In these locations, in addition to the unmissable books by Mario Rigoni Stern and Giulio Bedeschi, there are always hundreds of photographs that testify to that tragic retreat. Today, alongside the men and women in service in the Alpine Corps, the hundreds of thousands of black pens have been on leave for a century now, making the National Alpine Association, with its 350,000 members, the largest gun association in the country, a living and vital presence where the ANA offices are places of aggregation. Even today with emotion I think of the inclusion sign that stands at the entrance of the headquarters of the group ANA of Montefiorino: "Suppose and aim this light that leads you here among us. Whether bourgeois or alpine you will find bread and wine. It is clear, therefore, that from the Alpine headquarters to that of Civil Protection, the passage is short, and this also explains the great participation that the Alpines have as volunteers in peacetime. The Alpine spirit is that of the National Alpine Association, which has a motto: To remember and celebrate our dead, we help the living. I also remember that the National Alpine Association carries out volunteering and civil protection activities throughout the country. [[Applause]] I'm gonna finish. With great sacrifice and self-denial, they were the most present of the State to the great disasters of the post-war period. To name a few: from the Messina earthquake to the Friuli earthquake; from the Irpinia earthquake to those of Emilia, L'Aquila and Central Italy; from the Flood of Florence to that of Alexandria and Valtellina, without forgetting the Vajont disaster. And how to forget about the setting up of the Bergamo field hospital at record times to deal with the Covid epidemic? However, the Alps are also present with gestures of peace, such as the construction of the "Sorriso" kindergarten of Rossosch, already seat of the Command of the Alpine Corps in the land of Russia, and the construction in Brescia of the structure donated to a social cooperative of activities in favour of people with severe motor disabilities. Inside there is a plaque on which it is written: On the 40th anniversary of the battle of Nikolajewka in the memory of those without hatred but without vileness fell fighting for the honor of the flag and the salvation of the brothers, the alpine have built this school of crafts with love and joy because to those who less have had by fate it opens a more serene future. Here these are in a time of peace the crosses to the value deserved by the alpines all, synthesis of memory and sacrifice, as well as the institution of this Day, which I believe deserve in full title. In declaring the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, I would like to thank the alpine of today and tomorrow for what they do and still do. I would also like to remind and thank all the Alpines of every generation who have gone forward, and in particular two of them: the Alpine artillery of the Val Camonica Aldo Corti group, my grandfather (if that January 26 had not been among those 13,000 survivors, I would not be here today), and the chief alpine of the brigade Cadore, Senator Paolo Saviane, who so much cared about this provision. [[Applause]] I think in a few minutes our colleague will also be able to smile happy from up there. Thank you and live the alpine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u75	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, this measure, already approved by a very large majority by the House, provides for the establishment of the National Day of Memory and Sacrifice of the Alps, identifying the date of 26 January of each year. The purpose of the measure is its origin in wanting to keep alive the memory of the battle of Nikolajewka, fought by the Alps on January 26, 1943, but today, to reflect well, we can assign to this act a value that goes beyond the pure and simple historical fact. History tells us that in Nikolajewka one of the most important and fierce clashes took place during the withdrawal of the Alpine Corps on the Russian front during the Second World War, in which the Alpine divisions faced the Russian forces in the village Nikolajewka, with very high losses between the Italian ranks: out of 57,000 men, well over 40,000 of our Alpines fell into that tragic retreat from a war of aggression, made prisoners and sent to the various Soviet camps, exhausted by frost and continuous clashes. Durissimo was then the price paid by black pens in January of seventy-nine years ago. Our armed forces were used to fight on the battlefield. Lower in number, lower in equipment and lower in armament, they knew how to suffer with dignity and honor, performing endless gestures of humanity and brotherhood towards many wounded brothers, marked by fatigue and hunger. The battle of Nikolajewka is therefore rightly remembered for the example of courage, a spirit of sacrifice and a high sense of duty offered by all the Alpines involved in the fight, without distinction of rank and origin. The Alps have always distinguished themselves not only because of the regional and local character of their units, a source of extraordinary cohesion in times of greatest difficulty, but because of the fact that they constitute a community linked to the territory, which is composed not only of the military in service, but also of all those who are also on leave. The Alpine troops, mountain specialties, present in various weapons and bodies of the Army have been employed in every operating theatre, from the war of Africa to the campaign of Libya, during the First World War, in the war in Ethiopia, during the Second World War; they have carried out both international military missions of peace in Mozambique, the Balkans, Afghanistan and Lebanon, as well as military tasks of defence of the Alpine arch, as well as relief tasks and assistance in occasion of natural disasters. Precisely in the course of the numerous natural disasters that have struck our country, the National Alpine Association has distinguished itself for the altruism and the momentum with which it has provided its assistance to the affected populations, thanks to an operation that is based, as well as on professional military personnel, also on volunteers able to coordinate, with efficiency and promptness, all the activities of intervention and rescue. How can we not remember the important operations that saw the alpines involved in helping the populations affected by the earthquake in Messina, in the Vajont disaster, in the earthquakes of Friuli, Irpinia and Molise, in the flood of Valtellina and, still later, in the earthquake in Umbria and Marche and in the earthquake of L'Aquila? The value of the Alps has received and received unanimous appreciation of the citizens and institutions and has been solemnly recognized by the President of the Republic, who has awarded the ANA of the gold medal to the civil value. The values that embody the Alps in the defense of national sovereignty and interest, in the ethics of civil participation, solidarity and volunteering, deserve therefore to be celebrated, told and known by the children of today and by future generations. To the Alpine Corps, today and always, our gratitude and gratitude will go and go. As I mentioned earlier, I believe that now, compared to June 25, 2019, this measure goes far beyond the great educational value that has the establishment of a celebratory day for a single body of our Armed Forces. I think so because we here today must make a further effort, which we owe to our young people and to the whole country. We must make sure we learn from history, because, as Gramsci said, history teaches, but often has no pupils. Nikolajewka yesterday and Livenka today are Russian cities on the border with Ukraine. The survivors of the Alpine Corps, who returned to Italy, told of their experience. They spoke enthusiastically of the Ukrainian population. I quote, for example, a report from the historical office of the Italian Army's Staff: the Ukrainian population, out of pity, sympathy or order received, was urged to alleviate suffering and offered food, clothing and possibilities for rest to Italian soldiers; solidarity and priceless closeness. If history is to be studied, remembered and taught even with its tragedies, today we can solemnly affirm, in the light of constitutional principles, that the Armed Forces of our Republic will never again be used in wars of aggression, as instead was the war of Russia and as today is that in Ukraine. As our Pope Francis wishes to emphasize, the tragedy of the war that is taking place in the heart of Europe leaves us stunned. We would never have thought of seeing such scenes, reminiscent of the great war conflicts of the last century. In the world in which we live there are no wars of others. Faced with the criminal atrocities of this war and the torment of Bucha's images, we cannot turn to the other side, but we must act to ensure that conflicts cease and, above all, work for peace. [[Applause]] Today, therefore, we have the moral duty to remember the precious patrimony that every Alpine fell seventy-nine years ago has left in memory to the new generations: the love for the Homeland, the sense of duty and responsibility, the spirit of sacrifice and human solidarity, the courage and the ability to face the dangers and the desire to live in peace and freedom. These are the values that our military, men and women of all degrees and all our Armed Forces have brought and still carry in their hearts and that we all have the duty to make our own. Therefore, proudly stressing the valuable contribution that all the bodies of the Armed Forces have always provided to the Country and the importance of the promotion activities, with explicit reference to the agenda approved in the Defence Commission and accepted by the Government, I declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u76	Before proceeding to the vote, I would like to join in all the interventions that have taken place in favour of this bill, which marks the 26th of January each year in memory of the heroism demonstrated by the Alpine Corps in the battle of Nikolajewka during the Second World War, in order to promote the values of defence and sovereignty and national interest, as well as the ethics of civil participation, solidarity and volunteering that the Alps embody. I wanted to reread this passage, because it is very nice that the whole of Parliament has declared itself in favour of this bill. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u79	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that on 2 April last year it was the World Day for Awareness about Autism, aimed at not forgetting and emphasising the need for us all to become aware of the frequency, the many facets and the many personal, family and social implications that this complex problem entails. The importance of early diagnosis and early activation and rehabilitation in autism - I say this as a doctor and institutional representative - must be stressed. The autistic spectrum is not a condemnation or a condition without any possibility of recovery. One can and must fight with the strength and cohesion of the family, a correct therapeutic path, collective cultural maturity and appropriate legislative measures. Mr President, in this respect, it is my battle, which I have been pursuing and for which I have always fought, involving the whole of the Movimento 5 Star Group and also the other political forces. [[Applause]] We managed, thanks to the commitment and contribution of all political forces, to obtain an increase of 27 million euros in the budget law approved for 2022, provided in the fund of the Ministry of Health for the care of subjects with autistic spectrum disorders. You can, you want and you must go to the patients and their families about the diagnostic, therapeutic and welfare paths. We need not compassion, but support, support and sharing. Autism is not contagious, ignorance is. [[Applause]] Children and autistic people tend our hand, we do not remain indifferent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u82	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, I am reading the following: 'Spectable Embassy, we would like to express our personal dissension at the decisions that our Government is taking on the issue of war'. Other considerations followed and in the end: You want to help us to resist and consider our struggles for the restoration of democracy and the Italian Constitution. These are some passages from a disconcerting letter that a civic list for the municipal elections in Verona addressed to the ambassador of the Russian Federation. At worst, there's never an end. I think being on Putin's side equals sharing his criminal actions. Verona, however, could only be the tip of the iceberg and there is to worry about the thought that in our country there are some people who think that you can commit horrendous crimes, occupy another country, torture civilians and bomb hospitals. Some people, if you are not given an early answer, will think you can safely say everything. While in Russia, the country that these people love, the opponents are poisoned, here by us democracy, which these people do not love, responds with the laws. I think that list is a threat to democracy. For this reason I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to ensure that the facts that have happened and, above all, the contours of this organization, which proposes to vote with delirious proclamations that must be opposed in any way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u83	Senator D'arienzo, you didn't tell us the date of this letter, but we take it for granted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-422.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, April 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.45 p.m.)
