ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 12 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u3	On 13 May 2022, the parliamentary groups appointed the members in the 3rd Permanent Commission for renewal. The composition of the Commission is therefore as follows: Aimi, Alfieri, Casini, Craxi, Dessì, Di Micco, Ferrara, Galliani, Garavini, Iwobi, Licheri, Lucidi, Monti, Nocerino, Pacifico, Porta, Salvini, Sileri (replaced as a member of the Government by Senator Castellone), Taverna, Urso, Bishops, Zanda. The Commission shall be convened tomorrow, Wednesday 18 May, at 9 a.m. for renewal.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders adopted the agenda of the Assembly by a majority until 24 May. At today's sitting, the general discussion on the decree-law on the cessation of the state of emergency will take place until its conclusion. Replicas will take place tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. Since the Government has announced the position of the question of confidence on the measure in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the Conference of Leaders has organised the relevant debate. Ten minutes were allocated for the discussion on trust, on the basis of a specific request from a group. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you. The session will then be suspended and will resume at 4 p.m. for the discussion of the bill delegates in the matter of entertainment... [[Brusio.]] Members who are not interested could lower their voices so that they can know the timetable. Thank you. The sitting will be suspended and will resume at 4 p.m. for the discussion of the draft law delegation in the field of entertainment, linked to the budget maneuver. The times were divided between the Groups for a total of three hours, in addition to the speeches of the speakers, the Government and for explanations of vote. Amendments will have to be tabled by 10 a.m. tomorrow. Tomorrow's sitting doesn't include closing hours. On Thursday 19 May, at 9 a.m., with a direct television broadcast, the President of the Council of Ministers will inform on the further development of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes, with the exception of the Mixed Group, to which fifteen minutes are allocated. The agenda for Thursday's sitting also includes, from the writing site, the discussion of the design on celebrations for the hundredth anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti. The Premier question time, already scheduled at 3 p.m. on Thursday, is postponed to another session. On Tuesday 24 May, at 4.30 p.m., the report - already on today's agenda - of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the treatment pathways for men who are perpetrators of violence in affective and gender relations will be discussed. The Conference of Leaders will meet on Tuesday 24, at 3.30 p.m. to define the further programme of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 24 May: [[Tuesday, May 17, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2604 - Decree-Law n. 24, Cessation state of emergency (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (deceased on May 23) - Drawing of law n. 2318 - Delegation to the Government in the matter of entertainment (connected to the budget maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the further developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine (Thursday 19, 9:00) - Drawing of law n. 2317 - Celebrations for the hundredth anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti (by the drawing up office) Wednesday 18 " h. 9,30 Thursday 19 " h. 9]] Amendments to bill No 2318 (Delegation to the Government in the matter of entertainment) will have to be tabled by 10 a.m. on Wednesday 18 May. [[Tuesday, May 24 h. 16,30-20 - Doc. XXII- bis, point 8 - Report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the treatment pathways for men who are perpetrators of violence in emotional and gender relations - Possible follow-up to unfinished topics]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2604 (Decree-Law No 24, Cessation of emergency status) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 41' L-SP-PSd'Az 37' FIBP-UDC 33' PD 28' Mixed 27'+5' FdI 21'+5' IV-PSI 19' CAL (Constitution, Environment, Work)-Alternative-PC-IDV 18' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 16' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2318 (Delegation to the Government in the matter of entertainment) (3 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 31' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' FIBP-UDC 24' PD 21' Mixed 21'+5' FdI 16'+5' IV-PSI 14' CAL (Constitution, Environment, Work)-Alternative-PC-IDV 13' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 12' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u9	CRUCIOLI (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Madam President, I would like to change the timetable. I look forward to the seriousness of the situation, which is falling from day to day in Ukraine, and since positions are heard and followed at least in different words by political group leaders and groups, with different nuances which suggest that a debate is necessary here and not in television programmes, I ask that the timetable of work be changed. I would also ask that, instead of mere communications without a vote on Thursday, communications be made with a consequent debate and, therefore, a vote on motions for resolutions. I therefore ask that we proceed, not with information, under the Rules of Procedure, but with communications with a vote on motions for resolutions. This is the request I make to you. Of course, I ask that the whole thing, whether it be the one or the other, be done with direct television, so that the country can see what the information is or know President Draghi's communications. I therefore ask that this proposal to amend the timetable be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u10	In order to be fair, at the Conference of Leaders, the President made it clear that the timing that the President of the Council will see engaged both in the Senate and in the Chamber would not allow him to follow the procedure you proposed. However, I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Crucioli, to replace the information provided by the President of the Draghi Council on the agenda for Thursday's sitting at 9 a.m. with communications. It's not approved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2604, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Boldrini and Garruti, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Boldrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u12	Mr President, this decree-law, which has been amended and supplemented by the House, contains provisions for overcoming measures to combat the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic and other health provisions. As is well known, the decree-law did not extend the state of epidemiological emergency by Covid-19, which therefore ceased on 31 March. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u13	Senator Boldrini, in full respect of your role, I invite the senators present in this House to allow the rapporteur, Mrs Boldrini, to carry out her report. It seems that there is no correspondence between the place and the behavior held. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I feel like I have to call you back as you do in classrooms. Please, Senator Boldrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u14	Thank you, President. In relation to this termination, it is noted in the first place that Article 1 of the decree is previewed in any case the possibility of adoption until 31 December 2022 of civil protection orders in order to assure in the organizational, operational and logistic field the maintenance of the operating ability and of prompt reaction of the structures during the phase of progressive return in the ordinary activity. Those orders may also include derogation measures limited to those areas and with limited effect to 31 December 2022. Paragraphs 1 to 8 of the following Article 2 first provide for the establishment of units for the completion of the vaccination campaign and for the adoption of other measures to combat the pandemic. The structure operates until 31 December 2022, replacing the Special Commissioner for the implementation and coordination of containment and control measures for the Covid-19 epidemiological emergency and for the implementation of the national vaccination campaign, which is no longer foreseen after 31 March 2022. In this regard, we thank Commissioner Figlio, who carried out until 31 March the entire organization relating to the containment of the pandemic. The Director of the new unit shall be assigned the same powers as those already established for the special commissioner. It is also provided that from 1 January 2023 the Ministry of Health will assume the functions and the active and passive relationships belonging to the said unit, providing for a redefinition of the organizational structure of the Dicastery and the authorization to take on by the same Ministry, from 1 October 2022, of a quota of staff. The following paragraph 8- bis first introduces the possibility of administration at the pharmacies, with charges to the caregivers, by appropriately trained pharmacists, both vaccines against SARS-Cov-2 and influenza vaccines. The possibility is limited to those who are at least eighteen years of age and are subject to the presentation of documentation proving that a similar type of vaccine has been administered. Secondly, the paragraph introduces the possibility of carrying out diagnostic tests in pharmacies with the collection of the biological sample at the nasal and salivary and oropharyngeal level. Article 2-a provides for an increase in the organic endowment of the Italian League for the fight against cancer and an authorisation for the same public body to carry out competitive recruitment procedures. Article 3 provides that until December 31, 2022, the Ministry of Health, with orders adopted in agreement with the Ministers competent in matters or in agreement with the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, can define or update guidelines and protocols for the development in safety, in relation to the epidemiological situation, of the services of economic, productive and social activities and that, after hearing the Ministries competent in matters, with orders can establish restrictions on travel to and from abroad and sanitary measures depending on the same movements. Article 4 lays down new rules on the obligation of isolation in the event of a positive SARS-Cov-2 virus and the obligation of self-surveillance in the case of close contact with subjects who are positive for the same virus. The new framework shall be put into effect with effect from 1 April 2022, replacing the one operating until 31 March 2022. In particular, the new framework extends the self-surveillance regime to all cases of close contact. Consequently, the rules on the precautionary quarantine scheme and measures having equivalent effect to those rules shall not be extended. Article 5 of the same decree concerns the use of respiratory protection devices in certain areas. This Article lays down, in addition to certain provisions no longer operating from 1 May 2022, an obligation to use those devices until 15 June 2022. In some areas (obligation defined by the rewording approved in the Chamber) these latter rules are identical to those laid down in the mores of the entry into force of the aforementioned rewording to an order of the Minister of Health of 28 April 2022. The areas covered by the obligation for the period from 1 May 2022 to 15 June 2022 are related to the transport, entertainment and sport sectors, with the specific provision of an obligation to use a FFP2 or higher-type device, as well as health, social and social care facilities. Paragraph 1 of Article 6 extends to 31 December 2022 the transitional rule that makes the possibility of temporary exits subject, for persons hosted by certain residential structures, to the condition of the possession of a Covid-19 green certification. Paragraphs 2 to 8 of Article 6, paragraph 1 of Article 7 and paragraphs 6 and 8 of Article 8 have redefined, with reference to April 2022, the transitional rules on the condition of the possession of a Covid-19 green certificate, for the purpose of accessing certain areas or services for which, from 1 May 2022, the above condition no longer applies. Point (a) of paragraph 2 of Article 7 extends until 31 December 2022 the transitional rule that makes the possibility of access of visitors to certain residential structures subject to the existence of one of the following two conditions: possession of a Covid-19 green certification issued following the administration of the booster dose following the primary vaccination cycle against the Covid-19; simultaneous possession of a Covid-19 green certification generated on the basis of the completion of the aforementioned primary vaccination cycle based on the healing carried out by the Covid-19 and a certification attesting the negative outcome of a rapid or molecular antigenic test carried out with reference to the Covid-19 in the forty-eight hours preceding access. The following letter b-bis introduces the possibility for the health director of the facility to adopt more restrictive precautionary measures on the basis of epidemiological developments. Point (b) of the same paragraph 2 provides for the extension, until 31 December 2022, also of the transitional rule which makes the possibility of access of visitors to hospital accommodation departments subject to the existence of one of the above conditions for access to residential facilities covered by point (a). Article 7-a specifies the duration of validity of the Covid-19 certificate with regard to cases where a single-dose vaccine product has been taken against Covid-19 and subsequently contracted the same disease and recovered. The purpose of the review is to explain the equivalence of these cases to those of infection and healing following the completion of a primary vaccination cycle of a multidose product. Paragraphs 1 to 3 of Article 8 contain certain amendments to the transitional rules on vaccination against Covid-19 for workers working in the health, social and social care sectors. Novels differ from the final date of application of the obligation from 15 June to 31 December 2022 and contain a procedural rule on the suspension of the obligation for SARS-Cov-2 infection and subsequent recovery. The following paragraph 4 introduces some changes to the transitional rules on vaccination against Covid-19 for certain categories of workers (other than the categories concerned in the preceding paragraphs). The news referred to in paragraph 4, - which confirm - for the categories concerned - the final deadline of 15 June 2022 for the application of the obligation under consideration, remove, for the case of non-compliance - with reference to the same categories and with the exception of the teaching staff in the school sector - the prohibition of carrying out the work, without prejudice to the financial administrative penalty of 100 euros for the above-mentioned non-compliance. Then we come to Article 9. Paragraph 1 of Article 9, first, amends, with effect from 1 April 2022 and until the end of the school year 2021-2022, the rules on the performance of activities in the field of education services for children and children's schools, in primary schools, in secondary schools of first and second degree and in the system of vocational education and training. These rules provide, in any case, for the continuation of the activity in the presence of a temporary obligation, in the case of at least four cases of positivity in the section or class or class, of the use of breathing protection devices of type FFP2 for teachers, educators and pupils over the age of six years, and carry certain prescriptions for cases of post-contact symptoms. Paragraph 3 extends to the school year 2021-2022 the transitional rule allowing the periodic and final evaluation of learning also for cases where distance teaching activities are carried out. Moreover, it defines by Article 9-a, in the mores of the determinations, that - according to the legislation already in force - must be adopted by the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, the cases in which compulsory training in the field of health and safety at work can be carried out also with distance modalities, through the methodology of the videoconferencing in synchronous mode. I now leave the floor to my colleague, Mr Garruti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Garruti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u15	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Boldrini. Paragraph 1 of Article 10 extends until 31 December 2022 the transitional provisions referred to in Annex A. These provisions concern: the specifications which certain self-employment tasks, including co-ordinated and continuous co-operation assignments, provided for by the transitional rules on epidemiological emergency by Covid-19, may be assigned by the bodies and companies of the National Health Service, also to all medical and surgical graduates qualified for the exercise of the medical profession and registered in the professional order; the possibility for the bodies and companies of the National Health Service to retain in service medical and health managers, as well as the staff of the health service of the health sector and the social and health workers also in derogation from the limits provided for by the provisions in force for the placement in quiescence; the processing of personal data, including health data; the reduction of the time limit for the expression of the opinion of the Higher Council of the Public Education; the possibility of carrying out by the staff belonging to the nursing or obstetric professions, or in the technical health professions, rehabilitation and prevention, belonging to the public contract sector of the health of benefits outside the time of service with a total daily weekly hours not exceeding four; certain rules on simplification for the realization of live entertainment. Paragraph 1-a of the same Article 10 extends to 30 June 2022 the temporary rule that recognizes for the prescribed period, in the absence of the service of civil and private employees falling under the conditions laid down in the Ministerial Decree of 4 February 2022 concerning certain situations of fragility, the treatment of illness inherent in hospitalization. This benefit remains subject to the condition that the work benefit cannot be carried out in an agile manner. The following paragraph 1-b contains one of the many transitional rules of this Article concerning agile work. For the purpose of a unitary summary, it is noted that the above paragraph 1-b extends until 30 June 2022 the temporary rule according to which the working performance of so-called easy public or private employees falls under the conditions laid down in Article 26 (2) of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, converted, with amendments, by Law No 27 of 24 of 2020, and subsequent amendments, and normally carried out in agile mode. The right to the use of this procedure, even if compatible with the characteristics of the benefit itself, is also provided for certain categories of workers, who partially overlap with those mentioned, until the broader deadline of 31 July 2000, by paragraph 2 of this Article 10 and 2 of Annex B to this Decree. The categories concerned are employees in the private sector who have at least one child younger than fourteen years of age and civil and private employees who, on the basis of the assessments of the competent doctors, are more exposed to the risk of infection by SARS-Cov-2, due to the age and the risk condition resulting from immunodepression, from the outcome of oncologic diseases and from the conduct of life-saving therapy or in any case from comorbidities that can characterize a situation of greater risk. Paragraph 2-a of Article 10 extends to 31 August 2022 the rule that allows, on a transitional basis, private employers the use of agile working methods even in the absence of an individual agreement. In this case, information requirements on safety at work can also be fulfilled electronically by means of the documentation available on the Inail website. The same paragraph 2-a extends to 31 August 2022 the simplified transitional form whereby employers of the private sector, instead of the conclusion of the said individual agreement with the individual employee, transmit to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies by electronic means names presenting work in agile mode and the date of termination of the same mode. Paragraph 5-d of Article 10 extends until 30 June 2022 the transitional rule on the possibility of recourse to the agile employment institution by way of derogation from the requirement of the agreement between employer and employee, with regard to private employees who have at least one child in recognised serious disability or at least one child with special educational needs. With regard to paragraph 1-b of Article 10, it is recalled that it also increases the authorisation of expenditure for the replacement of staff of school institutions by 2022. Paragraph 1-c of Article 10 provides for the quantification and coverage of the charges referred to in paragraphs 1-a and 1-b above. With regard to Article 10 (2), Annex B, it is recalled that it also extends until 31 July 2022 the temporary rules on the exceptional health surveillance of certain categories of public and private workers in relation to the outbreak by Covid-19. Paragraph 4 of Article 10 provides for an extension for the continuation of the application of simplified procedures for certain competitions organized and already in place on 31 March 2022 and for certain training courses already in place on the same date. The following paragraph 5 provides that the temporary sanitary areas already activated by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces for the management of the emergency Covid-19 can continue to operate also in derogation from the authorization and accreditation requirements until 31 December 2022. Paragraphs 5-a and 5-b extend to 31 December 2022 the transitional legislation allowing, under certain conditions, the assignment of autonomous work assignments also of co-ordinated and continuous collaboration to veterinary and health medical managers and to the staff of the health care sector placed in quiescence, as well as to the social and health workers placed in quiescence. Paragraph 5-c extends to 31 December 2022 the temporary rules that provide for a derogation from the rules on the recognition of health and socio-health professions and extend for citizens of countries not belonging to the European Union, holders of a residence permit that allows to work, the monthly recruitment of employees of public administrations for the exercise of health professions and for the qualification of socio-sanitary operator. Article 10-a provides that health services relating both to the determination of the suitability for donation and to the production, distribution and assignment of blood and blood components and to the diagnosis and treatment of transfusion medicine are included in the list of telemedicine services and organised according to guidelines. Article 11 provides for an update of the sanctioning rules for certain epidemiological emergency measures by Covid-19. The update is arranged in relation to other novels carried out by this decree and the consequent change of the extremes of the normative references. Paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 12 shall include some textual coordination actions in relation to the said termination on 31 March 2022 of the epidemiological emergency state. Paragraph 3-a first extends from 31 December 2022 to 31 December 2024 the final date of application of the transitional rules allowing the assignment of general medical duties to doctors enrolled in the relevant specific training course. The paragraph also specifies that the activity thus carried out must be counted in the total hours of practical didactic activity provided for in the course itself and amends the rule on the definition, with reference to the above assignments, of limits of the maximum of the cared and the weekly hours. Paragraph 3-c reduces from ten to five the minimum requirement of seniority of activities contracted with the National Health Service for the figure of the tutors of these specific training courses in general medicine. Paragraph 3-c differs from 31 December 2022 to 31 December 2023 the applicability of the transitional rules allowing institutions and companies of the National Health Service, as well as private health facilities accredited and belonging to the training network of the specialization school, to hire, on a fixed time basis and with part-time, health professionals in the course of specialization and usefully placed in specific competitive rankings. Article 14 provides, in relation to the novelties of previous articles of the decree, for the repeal, from 1 April 2022 of a set of rules. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of Article 14-a amend the procedure and criteria for the definition of implementing measures relating to the fund for the care of subjects with autistic spectrum disturbance. Article 14b contains the safeguard clause for special and territorial autonomy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Riccardi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to Italy and the Italians. This is how I want to start my speech today, thanking all the Italian citizens, doctors and all the health workers, workers, traders, employees, freelancers, students, pensioners and volunteers, no one excluded for the extraordinary demonstration of common sense, tenacity and collaboration offered in these two years of terrible pandemic. This behaviour, in my opinion, deserves even greater recognition, because it has been put in place in a climate of great uncertainty and poor media lucidity. Just these days I have read statements aimed at incense the alleged goodness of the communication carried out in the fight against the pandemic. I disagree. I respect everyone's opinions, but on this issue I believe that, from the beginning, important communicative errors have been committed and repeated. For this reason, the response given by Italian citizens, in the attention to the rules and in the massive adherence to the vaccination campaign, is simply commendable. And it is in view of what, on behalf of me and the entire League Group, I extend to them my sincere thanks. We leave a state of emergency that lasted seven hundred ninety long days. We've spent a lot of money on buying cheap wheelchairs and dilapidated masks. We have seen Italy divided into more or less safe colors and green passes more or less strengthened and we cannot and must not pretend that everything has gone well. We must recognise shortcomings and mistakes and treasure them, because the Italians have shown us a sense of extreme responsibility, which we are called upon to protect and protect, today and for the future. As has been the practice in this parliamentary term, the Senate was unable to intervene and to influence the text that came from the House of Deputies if not for certain agendas proposed in the Commission. Fortunately, thanks to the work done by our colleagues in the House to whom we thank, it was still possible to make some improvements to the basic text, which, even if they did not bring the measure to be what we would have liked in its entirety, give us in any case reasons for partial satisfaction. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of the intervention which allows doctors in training to increase their maximum level of care, giving way to a sector in short supply and to those who are faced with persistent and important problems of shortage of staff. I am still thinking of the derogation from the rules on the recognition of occupational health qualifications which will help many health care residences (RSA) to address the other serious and atavistic deficiency, that of nurses, and the unanimous approval of an amendment of ours in the Commission that will allow to unblock 77 million euros for people with autism-related disorders, aimed at supporting the development of research projects, inclusion and the increase of the staff available. [[Applause]] They deserve mention also measures that, with the end of the state of emergency, reduce the obligation of green passes for multiple activities and that help to restore a kind of normality in our daily life and the important news on vaccines in pharmacy, on the assignments to doctors in quiescence and other significant related measures that grant a breath of oxygen to our National Health Service strongly tested by the pandemic. However, there are still some differences. I am referring to the lack of clarity about the position of non-vaccine teachers and the need to take action to prevent the obligation to wear the mask until 15 June from affecting children who are still in kindergarten but who are six years old during this period. Above all, however, I am referring to a subject which we are particularly concerned about, on which the League presented an agenda at the first signature of my colleague Mr Augussori: the protection of fragile people. We are all extremely pleased with the return to an ever greater normality, but we must not and cannot forget those who cannot defend themselves, those who need further attention at this time still so uncertain. The State cannot turn its head to this evidence, we demand measures that guarantee the fragile subjects a health and social protection without any space and incomprehensible unequal treatment even within this very delicate category. Specifically, Article 26, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, provided that for employees, public and private, in possession of certification attesting a condition of risk deriving from immunodepression, from outcomes from oncology or from the conduct of related life-saving therapies as well as those in possession of the recognition of disability with gravity connotation, the period of absence from the service is equivalent to hospitalization and that, from 17 March 2020, the same days of absence are not counted for the purposes of the period of composing. Paragraph 2-a of the same article also provided that fragile workers should normally carry out the work in agile mode, also through the provision of different tasks included in the same category or in areas of classification by carrying out specific vocational training activities even remotely. Both provisions have been subject to several time extensions. However, the decree of the Minister of Health of 4 February 2022, which identifies chronic diseases with little clinical compensation and with particular gravity connotations, did not receive concrete implementation with the consequence that an inconceivable division has been created between fragile protected workers and fragile unprotected workers. With the latter being faced with the decision to decide daily the right to health or the right to the preservation of the workplace. We are therefore satisfied with the acceptance of our agenda with which the Government is committed to overcoming the existing list as it is too restrictive. We cannot accept realities of this kind and the League is always ready and on the front line to protect the most needy, today more than ever. I would like to conclude by leaving you with a reflection: for two long years we have been obsessively repeating that everything would have gone well and that we would have come out better, but we have probably done so without really believing it, so today the problems that were there have remained and those that were not there have come to add to the others. We represent a splendid people and country; let us all work so that we can honor them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u19	Mr President, once again for us at Forza Italia it is significant to stigmatize and above all to make it clear and clear, without any possibility of misunderstanding, that our Group has always been absolutely in favour of the approach that the Government has wanted to give, particularly since the President of the Council of Ministers is Mario Draghi, and the choices made, for example, with the appointment of Commissioner Figillo in the management of vaccinations. Forza Italia has always been absolutely in favour of the approach linked to health policy, and I must say that I have had the opportunity to appreciate very much the competence and modus operandi of the Undersecretary Sileri, who, during this year and a half, has acquired my full esteem for how he managed the situation also in the media. I must tell you, Undersecretary: you were not elected to my party, but I have the habit of always saying what I think, and you know it. It was not possible to underestimate the devastating impact of this pandemic, even trying to disintegrate the population by reducing everything to merely accident measures on the individual freedom of citizens, as if the government had fun limiting individual freedom and the possibility of acting and acting as if nothing had happened. On the contrary, an absolutely serious approach has been imposed, with a policy of participation as massive as possible and a vaccination campaign that has led to the first vaccination of the weakest, the most fragile, and then to vaccinate the youngest and the youngest, making it clear that the exit from a health problem of planetary scope could be achieved only with the sense of responsibility and awareness of what we had before, without underestimating, as many thought to do, disinforming or even rising almost to the role of new scientists in the health world. In the early afternoon I heard a speech by the Undersecretary for Health - which I greatly appreciated - which replied to those who apparently think that they suddenly became a scientist in the field of health or a person competent for reading who knows which articles in more or less technical journals. Well, unfortunately, this bad vice of having an ideological approach and bending this approach even to supposed scientific competences is the worst there can be, because attitudes of this kind could have led to much worse the approach that Italy had compared to the way in which this pandemic was faced and above all to greatly increase the number of deceased who, alas, were there in our country. The measure at our examination is that of closure, that which leads to reopenings, to normality; certainly, with caution. I too am talking here with the mask and the idea that masks are bad for health, that they can even cause health problems, is laughable. It is even absurd that this is said, especially when there is a unanimous participation of the scientific world on the absolute need to limit damage also through this type of protection. In the same way, with the current Government we had the ability to return to normality better and before other countries in the world, beyond the disinformation carried out. Then there are those who can criticize one measure over another: for example, there are those who criticize a particularly cautious approach on the part of the Ministry of Health, so in fact on the part of the Government. But I have the habit of relying on the world of science when I do not know a whole question and I do not have the competence or the knowledge to be able to give a personal judgment. The measure under consideration closes a period of restrictions, a complicated period for our country (but not only for our country) and the vote that I feel to give to the entire management of this period so inauspicious is absolutely positive; a vote not only sufficient, but of absolute approval of what has been done. The Chamber of Deputies also entrusts us with some changes to this decree-law launched by the Government; changes that, as always, have led to the improvement of the provision. You know the approach I have always had, since the beginning of this legislature, towards a pathological phase of the democratic system of our country, but in a situation such as that we have experienced it was not possible to act according to the pattern of traditional parliamentaryism. The laws approved with draft parliamentary law are really few; it has been acted almost exclusively by decree-law, but I must say that this sort of monocameralism sui generis that has been generated by this pathological period of our democratic system has in fact guaranteed the possibility that at least one of the two Chambers, the one to which the provision was assigned, could modify the decree-law and improve it. It was made to make Members feel that they were not useful but were involved in a legislative process, that they should not simply approve the closed-box decree-law, as a result of a parliamentary activity in this case entrusted to the Chamber of Deputies. We here in the Senate can only appreciate the work carried out by the Government, but also by the House, which introduced changes to our judgment absolutely useful. I should like to end by saying that I hope that a period such as that we have experienced will be a warning so that the mistakes that have sometimes been made in the past will not be made in the future. We can only support the decree-law under discussion, as amended by the House of Deputies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u20	Senator Marin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u21	Mr President, let me sum up a few points which identify this measure. With an amendment approved in the Chamber of Deputies, the obligation to wear masks, specifically type FFP2, was postponed from 30 April to 15 June on means of transport, also school buses. Article 8 lays down a vaccination obligation for persons aged 50 or over until 15 June, with the application of a financial administrative penalty which, in view of the latest compensation judgments, I put in serious question. Until June 15, guests in sporting events that take place indoors must wear the mask and also this is a twist without sense and without logic rigor. In addition, the rate of positivity is constantly decreasing. Nevertheless, our children are still forced to endure the mask for hours in a climate situation that is making tolerance impossible. The League has long been asking for feedback on this issue, but for incomprehensible reasons our children will have to arrive at the end of the school year to get rid of this punishment. Then we come to the 19 million people not vaccinated or with uncompleted cycle. This figure will remain almost constant, because it represents that part of the population which, apart from any recommendation, sanction or imposition, has already decided not to vaccinate and with great probability will never, less so today, vaccinate that we are no longer in a state of emergency. However, incongruity emerges, in particular, in Articles 10 and 12, which provide for extensions of contracts, the recruitment of medical and nursing staff, a category that, at the darkest moments of the pandemic, has been very naively defined...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u22	Senator Marin, I am sorry to interrupt you, but I must remind you of the internal provisions of the Quaestors, according to which the mask is required in this House. I therefore kindly invite you to wear it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u23	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, we were absolutely on the subject. Please, Senator, continue your speech. MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Returning to medical and nursing staff, angels have been called. No, gentlemen, they are not angels and doctors you are not born, you become, with a university training course. They are ground workers prepared and responsible for the interventions of their specific competence which, with great responsibility and well knowing the risks of the trade, have presented themselves to the health front as soon as their work has been requested. The emergency phase closed on 31 March and national law provides for the possibility of stabilising staff who have carried out at least 18 months of emergency activity Covid. Therefore, part of these angels are essentially fired from the wards to be rejected in the cauldron of the precarious. The survivors of the lanes, despite the enormous experience gained in the field in extreme situations, for twelve, sixteen or seventeen and a half months, do not fall within the stabilization plan. Now more than ever we should review the parameters. There is still a shortage of health workers, particularly now that the health system is suffering from past management, neglected by more than two years of pandemics. In the face of the lack of doctors and nurses, especially in specific areas (psychologists, physiotherapists, general medicine doctors, doctors and first aid nurses), a system should be identified that enhances the skills, not relegating them to a temporal duration. It is not enough to extend contracts, it is necessary to stabilize positions, in order to reduce the precariousness and to reduce health deficiencies in hospitals, thus providing for extraordinary intervention measures. I shall end by thanking you, Madam President, and colleagues for their attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u24	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u25	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the draft law with which we are now defining the emergency phase must be considered a moment of serene satisfaction by all of us, who have lived through these years in a very tiring way in so many respects. And the fatigue is not only related to the numbers that, with a certain constancy, first daily, now weekly, are administered to tell us from time to time how many infections, how many swabs, how many people in intensive care and those who have left us permanently. We were used to playing around these four figures to try to figure out what the trend of this pandemic was. Now they finally tell us that the pandemic is over and the state of emergency is over. It is clear that one of the main indicators of the end of this state of emergency is the fact that Commissioner Figlio has returned to other occupations, I suppose neither simpler nor easier. Certainly a great thanks goes from all of us to Commissioner Figlio, who has managed in these almost two years the intense campaign of vaccination, which was really the wall of defense regarding the pressure of the virus. It was the defense, even if this virus is proving to be smarter than expected, so its continuous mutations put us in a state of alarm in the perspective of the next vaccine, which many of us are determined to do, probably around September, if it will be configured in order to take account of the variants. We are therefore happy that this phase has ended, also because we have recorded some operating indicators of advantage: for example, we can enter and exit without having to deliver or show our green pass every time. All of us have entered and gone out a thousand times, even here in the Senate, perfectly known, perfectly known the fact that we were vaccinated, yet all the time we had to show the certification, in a sort of ritual at the end quite tired and, in my opinion, a bit hypocritical. In the end, in fact, when you know that people are vaccinated, ask them five, six, seven times a day the green pass has something ridiculous. We are happy because in many places we can be without a mask. In fact, in the Senate it is mandatory to bring the mask to the Chamber, to the Commission, where the events, the conferences and the meetings take place, but otherwise we can also be without around the corridors. The same goes for the street or going to the restaurant and this gives us a certain feeling of return to normality. We still live with a certain perplexity the operation swabs, because we know that this virus is smart and in its transformation it is creating a tail of return infections, so even people who have already had the Covid and maybe in serious form now can take it back, even several times, even in lighter form. So the swab is still our health ally to see if there's or isn't a virus. All this makes us look forward to health, but it also raises two questions that I would like to reflect on together with all of you. One of the articles amended by the current draft law concerns the strengthening of the activities of the Italian League for the fight against cancer. I think we all bow to the extraordinary work that the Italian Cancer League is doing, we consider it a guarantee, an advantage, a positive mortgage over those other diseases from the Covid. There is no doubt that in these years we have experienced this experience: on the one hand the Covid, on the other the other the other pathologies. And we experimented materially as to the patients not Covid things were frankly bad: the long waiting lists, the screenings that were not actually done, the follow-up totally slowed down, the rehabilitation made almost impossible. We know that there is a very serious discomfort and suffering, which concerns health. Those of you who follow these events know that last week it was almost entirely dedicated to a reflection on the cancer sufferer. There have been several events (even here in the Senate), to remember something that I find extraordinarily close to the limits of the scandal: is it ever possible that we do not yet have a national oncology plan, when for example we have an excellent European oncology plan? It is imperative that I address myself at this moment to Undersecretary Sileri, who knows how passionately we follow this subject. The European oncology plan is an excellent plan; we could even copy it, to protect all cancer patients, including the dimension not so much of prevention, but rather of early diagnosis. We all know that the early diagnosis of a tumor greatly increases the guarantees of being able to deal with it, whether surgically or pharmacologically. Yet we have touched with hands a silence, the silence of the Ministry, which covers all national plans. I do not want to go here and remind you of the national plan of rare diseases, promised by law, and so many other national plans that we are waiting for. In this specific case, this law takes into account positive measures against the Italian Cancer League. I bow, I thank you, but I do not understand why the broader and more general vision that concerns the cancer sufferer has not found his full dignity and his full presence. I do not hide you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I have tabled a motion to try to share the debate on a disease that affects us all sooner or later, directly or through people who are dear to us. Gentlemen, the Covid emergency is not over, nor is the oncology emergency, so much so that someone is talking about an oncology pandemic. I hope that this situation, this context and this moment will somehow make all of us react and make the Ministry, the Minister and the Government react. Then there is another passage contained in this decree-law, also very interesting, which concerns the possibility of modularizing, through the figure of the health director, certain operations of protection, defence, prevention and care. It also concerns the interlocutor with whom we learned how to deal during the pandemic: the sense of loneliness and the difficulty in approach, in visiting, in meeting the guests of the RSA and their family members, for example, but also among the patients hospitalized and their family members. Behind a high and important objective, that of containing the risk, we have not taken into account another equally important risk, the psychological one. Yet we have allocated EUR 500 for psychological assistance, but after that we have made the difference in the emotional and relational dimension. I'll say one more thing, President, and then I'll finish. This decree-law also says important and acceptable things about formation. In particular, he tells you about the training of the general medical doctor, for example by placing limits on the ceiling of general medical doctors. In Rome there are doctors of general medicine who have 1,500 patients, while here we talk about 1,000 patients and we talk about the possibility that they have tutors with them, that is, people who in some way can be allies in the exercise of a job. It does not say anything, however, about that strategic, fundamental, very important objective with which we must compare - Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2 April 2015 and Ministerial Decree No. 71 - that is the shift of attention from hospital to territory and therefore the imperative need to have a more competent, more ready, more available class of general medicine doctors, because they carry out a new job or carry out in a different way the old work. I would have liked to say many more things, but I conclude by saying that it is good that the emergency is over, but the consequences of the emergency are not over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u26	Mr President, I start from the summary of previous episodes. On 31 March, I replied to the question time by reminding the Minister of Health that the question of trust cannot be raised in courtrooms. It is good to remember this in this speech for the reasons we shall see. Meanwhile, forty-seven days later, we are here fervently and eagerly waiting to vote yet another confidence, faithful to the roadmap of this Government that has put on average the issue of trust every nine days. It is a fact that objectively squeals with the extent of the parliamentary support which this Government enjoys and which determines in fact, if not in its intentions, a substantial abolition of the debate. To understand us, the theme is not so much the confidence that will be placed here in the Senate, because it is somehow determined by the circumstances and by the regulatory times: the decree-laws must be converted within sixty days, Legislative Decree No. 24 was published in the Official Gazette on March 24 and we remain seven days to convert it, so a further passage to the House is not even remotely conceivable and this is peaceful. The problem, however, is the question of trust in the House, where, given that adequate time has been taken for consideration, Parliament's amendments would have been expected to be taken more seriously. This consideration has not been and we regret not only because it leads us to regard this decree with some regret as a missed opportunity, but also because in the meantime in the courtrooms, as was easy to predict, the government's system of countering the pandemic is receiving heavy censorship, which would have been possible to avoid, at least in some cases, if more attention had been paid to parliamentary proposals, in particular to some proposals of the League, to which the Minister has opposed a refusal as firm as objectively in some cases incomprehensible. I would like to take the example of Amendment 8,58 by Mrs Boldi, who took care of the defence, security and rescue personnel who are not in direct contact with the general public and patients, and therefore requested that they not be suspended. Well, it was not intended to take into account this rational proposal and in one of the classrooms in which trust cannot be placed, that of the tribunal of Padua, on 28 April last the judge ordered the reinstatement without demand of an OSS failing to the vaccination obligation, arguing that the vaccination obligation imposed on the workers in question does not appear suitable to achieve the purpose it aims to achieve, which is to preserve the health of the guests. The judge continues: In fact, it can be considered noteworthy that the person who has undergone the vaccination cycle can still contract the virus and infect others. The safest method at present to prevent a worker from infecting the other persons present at the workplace is to have reasonable certainty that he is not infected, reasonable certainty that as a visa cannot be given by vaccination, but by the periodic submission of the worker to the buffer. He therefore ordered the worker's reinstatement essentially on condition that he showed a super green pass, which is then that certificate of which we were told that he gave the guarantee of being among non-cultivated persons and therefore we do not understand why we must overcome it with more incisive measures when the problem is the guarantee of being among non-cultivated persons. With Amendment 8.75, Mr Borghi had asked for the abolition of the application of non-vaccined teachers. The proposal has not been accepted. In another courtroom where the question of trust cannot be raised, that of the court of Grosseto, the judgment n. 203/2022 RG of 3 May 2022 has ordered the immediate reinstatement, without demand, of a teacher possessing enhanced green certification (i.e., not necessarily reinforced by vaccination). Amendment 8.60 called for the possibility for suspended staff to redeem their contributions. This amendment was also rejected. Not only that, I learned just now from a doctor that the three months notice for dismissal cannot start during the period of suspension, which means, basically, that a doctor who intended to quit to go and do something else should pay a heavy penalty to the health company at which he is employed. Basically, we want to harm the right of these people to a free and dignified existence for the rest of their days, beyond the end of the emergency (which, in our opinion, would not justify, or ever justified such injury), preventing them from having access - at their expense - to adequate pension treatment. I'm sorry to have to point this out, but this thing, which has gone through quite silence, seems like an unheard of gravity. We are engaged in a total war and extermination against those who have thought that they are making a choice under conditions of extreme uncertainty, which justify hesitation. I would like to remind you, once again, of the order of the Council of Administrative Justice for the Sicilian Region, which considered that a referral to the Constitutional Court was not manifestly unfounded, arguing, among other things, that pharmacovigilance has demonstrated during this period of serious deficiencies, which were admitted by those responsible in the hearings we held. There are organisational shortcomings, lack of staff and governance problems: all of them - I repeat - have been admitted. It is precisely today that several associations have deposited a curian memory at the Constitutional Court to help the constitutional judge to form a judgment on various aspects, including the state of pharmacovigilance. I do not understand why it insists on measures that seem animated by a sterile punitive will subtly hysterical that, no matter how well-meaning it may be, it is proving increasingly counterproductive every day, also because, among other things, it contributes to that lack of health personnel that has become chronic during the austerity season of which only the strength in which I honour myself as a military denounced in time the drawbacks, including the inevitable failure of what remains one of the best public health systems in the world. If this is the case, we must think that this is also and above all because of those who work there. For all thanks we find nothing better to do than subject these professionals to discriminatory treatment, which every day appears increasingly lacking in scientific bases, as some of the judgments I have cited show in their narrative. Then there is the stone banquet of the strategy of contrasting to the pandemic, which is natural immunity: a phenomenon under investigation and denied. The healed are, to put it in the words of the never too late Gigi Proietti, the "black knight" of the pandemic: 15 million people to whom it would be advisable not to break the soul since, in all evidence, there is no compelling scientific need to do so, while there is sufficient and abundant scientific evidence suggesting that they consider them a resource as endowed with immunity substantially equivalent to the vaccine. We have seen, in other latitudes, politics become the subject of fiction and vice versa, but, no matter how fertile the imagination of the writers is, hardly one of them could have imagined that such an attack on labour law, firmly written in the first article of our Constitution, would be brought by the founder of Article One. All this is bitterly beautiful, but we need to put an end to it. You didn't want to listen to us, but you can't help but listen to the courts. I say this not with pleasure, but with bitterness, because it seems to me very inappropriate to offer the judiciary such an opportunity to exercise an additional role of political direction, by issuing clearly damaging decrees of constitutionally guaranteed rights. I have referred to Articles 1 and 36 and others, but I have done so again and I do not repeat myself. The problem of a rebalancing of powers (to be more explicit, the problem of a certain exondation of the judiciary) already exists. However, if we break the embankment of the Constitution, we cause this problem and, therefore, we lose the right to complain about it and the credibility to intervene. With great humility, but with just as much determination, I urge all colleagues to reflect on this point. I am sure that if we maintain the pace of confidence every nine days, we will not lack opportunities to correct this trajectory. Let us work together not to lose these opportunities, in mutual respect and for the interest of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is the case more and more often, today we are discussing the conversion into law of a decree-law which contains rules whose effects are already partially exhausted. This is clearly destructive, not only for the Senate of the Republic, which is called upon to express its opinion on something which is no longer in force, but also on the overall parliamentary function. The decree-law arrived this morning in the Commissions in the contact person and none of the members of the 1st and 12th The Commission has had the opportunity to influence the content in any way. If this is true - unfortunately it is, without doubt - explain to me how we can support the view that the decree-law has been examined in the Commission, in accordance with Article 72 of the Constitution, if not in a completely abnormal and absolutely formal form. The spirit of the Constitution is being betrayed in this way: the important thing is to be aware of it, because everyone is responsible for his actions. Today's government drift now leaves no room for legislative changes of a parliamentary nature, nor for debate, especially if someone thinks differently. It is with this spirit, then, that I am about to make these brief remarks. In the Senate of the Republic, at the time of the Dragons Government, there is only one opposition, alive and fighting, and it is the new Group I am part of, which claims the idea that there may be a different future in our country. [[Applause]] A future away from the logic of consociative castes and lobbyists. We have already experienced, in the long run of the health emergency, the changes of direction of an ever stronger government with the weak and weak with the strong. There is a part of Parliament, however, which intends to defend at all costs that weak part of society that has no voice and believes that some fundamental rights of the human person have been violated. In our schools, for example, it has happened in all colors: teachers suspended from the practice of the profession and then demansioned, although they were healthy, just because they were not vaccinated; forty differentiated for students without a minimum of logical rigour; vaccination obligation imposed until 15 June 2022 for all school staff, without any sense. The government intervened without a minimum balance between constitutionally guaranteed rights: on the one hand the vouchers, those vaccinated, regardless of age; on the other hand the villains, teachers and pupils not vaccinated, to be excluded and excluded at any cost. This has created a fracture that I fear is insane within our school system, dividing teachers, ATA staff and families, at a time when the health emergency has turned into a social and economic emergency and required a unitary effort, starting from the places of human formation and growth. The harmful effects, as always, have poured first of all on the weak and less protected sections of the population: children and young people not vaccinated, in the uncertainty of the risk-benefit ratio of injections in various age groups, were first excluded from their classmates and then even from school institutions, not to mention sports competitions. However, the legislation on the forty differentiated ones contained in Decree-Law No. 5 of 2022, which is absolutely discriminatory, could represent a precedent to keep in mind, in view of the successive norms, contained in this other decree-law, because when you make a mistake you can go back. This was the right opportunity, for example, to resolve the issue of the vaccination obligation for teaching staff, as well as for other categories of professionals, such as doctors, nurses, armed forces personnel, compared to which the introduction of a time delay to fulfil, from 15 June to 31 December 2022, does not make any practical, logical or legal sense. It was an opportunity to take a step back and seek a first reconciliation, because there was and could be the parliamentary process of this decree-law. However, the government has decided as always with a low head, without listening to the critical voice not so much of the minority parliamentarians, but of the members of civil society. Go and ask out of this House what you think of the extension of vaccination obligations or the extension of the state of emergency ad libitum. Today's repeals do not cancel yesterday's shame. That is why it would have been more appropriate to call this text a decree of missed occasions rather than a re-opening decree. The amendments have not exactly been dealt with in the classrooms, but instead we are faced with a package that is a take-and-leave package. Clearly, we will say no to this set of measures that continue to be vexatory to citizens, such as Article 8 on vaccination and Article 3 on the exceptional powers once again conferred on the omnipotent Minister of Health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u30	Mr President, the decree-law we are debating comes to us with a procedure which, although it is now customary, does not make it less unacceptable. The Constitution provides for the examination by both rooms, but now it turns out that it is impossible, while until a couple of years ago it was possible. It was always done: during the first republic and during the second republic, the vast majority of decree-laws were actually examined by both chambers, almost always without trust. Now instead it is clear that a second real reading is impossible because the House held this decree-law for fifty of the sixty days within which it must be converted into law, so you arrive here and you can no longer say anything. The bicameralism, which is written in the Constitution and which has been confirmed by a referendum, is trampled on. It can happen sometimes: in the great moment of the emergency, in spring 2020, there could also be this reason, but the fact that this practice is based on all arguments is truly unacceptable. We were all there when the newly re-elected President Mattarella said, in his inaugural speech, that it is necessary to avoid the compression of the prerogatives of Parliament, then of the House and of the Senate, and that they must be valued. We have all applauded, but then among those who applaud there are those who continue to promote this unacceptable way of proceeding against the Constitution. Coming to the merits, we are now discussing, on 17 May, the terms expired or restored on 30 April, so we are doing a job on the past. But who really has the head turned to the past is the Government, which continues to establish restrictions that are almost unique in the world, paying no attention neither to what happens abroad, nor to the Italian experiences, nor to the numbers that government bodies find and spread. This decree-law, which is christened "Riaperture", should actually be called "Richiusure". In fact, a number of measures which would have expired are prolonged: the vaccination obligation for the whole health sector is extended until December; the use of masks is extended until 15 June. I have a specific question for the government representatives. Strangely here there is always the absolute extraordinary need and urgency to approve these decrees, but the Minister Hope never sees it. Of course, all respect to the representatives of the Government, to the Undersecretary Sileri, who is present with the other Undersecretary, but if the Minister showed that it is also important for him, and not only to impose obligations, limits and prohibitions on Italians, it would not be bad. So maybe you could explain to us why you lied to Parliament to cover up your failure to renew the pandemic plan. I remember that tens of thousands of people died during the pandemic. Perhaps someone less would have died if there had been an updated pandemic plan, rather than a nearly 20-year-old one. Perhaps this should be done by the Minister, as well as imposing limits and prohibitions. [[Applause]] I have a question to ask all the members of the government who go abroad, where now the obligation of masks is no longer there (in some countries there has never been). They go abroad, without masks, and then they come back here and impose them on others. In particular, at the Brussels Summit, two months ago, the President of the Council, Mr Mario Draghi, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Luigi Di Maio and all the others present, Mr Biden, Chancellor Scholz, the President of the European Commission, Mr Ursula von der Leyen and all the other world summits attended the meeting without mask, either outdoors or indoors. There was no particular gap: on the contrary, kisses and hugs. All without a mask two months ago. I, then, have a very specific question to ask. I spoke too well of Undersecretary Sileri, who is now gone. There's only one undersecretary left, very busy in phone conversations. However, I would like the rapporteur, and above all the representative of the Government, to reply to this simple question: why does the President of the Draghi Council go to the international summits without a mask and embrace people, even of a certain age? He himself is not very young and therefore there is a greater risk. Then, however, he comes here and obliges six-year-olds, even if they go to childhood school, to put on the mask until June 15th. Where's the criterion? Because when there was that meeting in Belgium, it was not an exception made for the occasion. In Belgium, for months, as almost all over the world, there is no obligation to wear a mask. Just as there is no obligation not to put it. If President Draghi thinks the mask serves to reduce and counter the pandemic, why didn't he put it on? He was free to put it on, and instead, he didn't put it on. Then he comes here and forces six-year-olds to wear a mask! [[Applause]] I want an answer. Given that the Government will place trust, I ask Minister Hope, because it would be nice for him to come and put trust, or in any case to Minister D'Incà, who will probably be present, to answer this very simple question. I remember that there are studies that talk about the possible negative consequences of the use of masks. It is evident that it increases the reinspiration of carbon dioxide, something much is said about other purposes. It is evident that it causes effects that make people uncomfortable and even skin irritations. In the educational field, it greatly reduces the interaction with the teacher: being able to see in the face the teacher and for the teacher to see the students is very important. Otherwise, if the mask were useful, we'd always keep the mask. Just remember that Dr. Giovanni Rezza, director of the prevention sector of the Ministry of Health, wrote a letter, in response to those who asked him, saying that he is not in possession of studies that demonstrate the usefulness and effectiveness of the masks. Let's remember that this virus is very mutated. At first the situation was very different. Now, with these variants, which are far less deadly, but are much more contagious, from many studies it appears that there is no difference. On the Cochrane library, which is a large database of researches, an accurate study was published, which explains that it was not possible to demonstrate the effectiveness of the use of surgical masks compared to their non-use, nor has a clear difference been demonstrated between the surgical mask and the FFP2 mask. This is just one example. A few days ago a study by Professor Beny Spira came out in which he even says that, according to some analyses, the number of people infected is greater where the mask is used more. This, among other things, is the case of Italy which has worse numbers than others and obligations equal to no other country. Finally, on 22 July last, President Draghi said that with the green pass there would be the security of being among people who are not contagious and therefore not infected. His claim, that he never denied and for which he never apologized, was denied 5,181,909 times. Since that day this is the number of Italians who have infected themselves with the Covid-19 despite having the requirements for the green pass. In fact they are even more because there are another 2,300,000 infected among those who had done two doses for more than four months. Since the green pass lasts six months and until 31 January it lasted even nine months, probably there are many more. Of these, remaining only to those who have three or more doses of vaccine or two doses for less than four months, 62,000 have ended up in hospital, 3,000 in intensive therapies and 9,805 have died. Perhaps someone thought that they would no longer observe prudential behavior since they had the green pass and that the President of the Council had said that we were safe. So when you communicate on such matters, you don't have to make propaganda, you have to tell the truth. This is what we ask: truth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I think it is important for the measure before us to reiterate something that we said in many people on 24 March when the decree-law was issued and began its parliamentary journey; since 31 March we are all a little more free, but no one should be considered to be imprudent. The state of emergency ends after 28 months. What we have behind us is known to many; this is not an opportunity to take stock, but they have been very difficult times for our entire community. Periods in which a great deal of responsibility has been needed, a great deal of capacity to support difficult choices and a great deal of sacrifice on the part of citizens. We must not forget this when we get out of a tunnel and, even if we cannot tell ourselves completely out of danger, we start to breathe. I think it is necessary to thank those who have made it possible in our country to cope with the emergency in the way we have done it, starting with the operators of our health care. I would like to thank the Commissioner for the general emergency, Son, Civil Protection, who has done an extraordinary job, and all those who have, in various ways, collaborated on the good performance of the vaccination campaign. A campaign that - I would like to remind you - has allowed us to achieve one of the highest virus protection results in Europe; 90% of the vaccination population has completed a vaccination cycle, 8% of the population in general has done so, 88 percent of the population over five years old has had vaccination and has protection against Covid. It is true, however, that these data tell us that the Italians who still have no vaccine are 10 million. At this moment in which we breathe a sigh of relief, in which we savour the enjoyment of freedom that for a long time has been impossible to enjoy, we must know that we face the months that will come - and we all think of the autumn ones - with this fact on which we must continue to reflect, which certainly does not represent an element of strength and which, even if we must be optimistic, must lead us to a great prudence in managing the situation and moving towards an effective contrast to the pandemic. I mentioned earlier the contribution that our health professionals have made; I would also like to say that in these months of emergency our health system has changed profoundly and important investments have been made to innovate the models of action of the health system, but also to strengthen the staff. Sometimes we forget it: we started this trip in the pandemic in a country where there were 5,000 medical specialization grants; now we have reached 17,000; probably not enough yet, but in a short time we managed to triple the number of specialization grants. This required great attention and an important investment of resources. The national health fund has increased to 124 billion - it was 114 before the pandemic - and we expect to be able to increase it to 128 in the next two years. This has enabled us to meet the many needs that have emerged during the pandemic crisis and I believe that, together with an increasingly efficient organisation, the strengthening of human resources in our health care is a decisive factor. From this point of view there are opportunities that must not be wasted and, by analysing the end of the state of emergency and the determination of some reopenings, part of our attention must also be devoted to these problems. It seems to me that it was also right to reiterate the principle of graduality and a targeted approach to the implementation of decisions with this measure. I think it was a correct decision to provide for the requirement of masking in certain places until 15 June, to provide for the continuation of the vaccination obligation for the categories most exposed up to the end of the year, to provide for certain elements of particular caution, for example, for visits within hospital facilities or for those who must temporarily leave assisted health residences. I am not ashamed to have supported and supported a line of responsibility; I know that there are those who have made different choices. There are those who immediately joined the party of irresponsibility, of fandonia, of misinformation, of media poisoning. I have to say that this party had an ally in an information system in our country that comes out of this pandemic with the image of a structure that does not have so many deontological antibodies compared to the risk of fake news and pollution of public debate. There are those who, even though they have not made this choice, have made one wrong anyway, namely to keep their feet in two brackets, acting in a particular way, as a party of struggle and government, so that the afternoon we vote on the measures of prevention and of contrast to the pandemic in Parliament and, one minute after they have been voted on, we exercise ourselves in picking them up in tweets, on Facebook and in statements. In our view, this is not a very serious way of contributing to a national challenge, as was the fight against the pandemic. Certainly less serious than that of professional disinformers and of the sidekicks of the disinformers, but still critical. I conclude by saying that we must be very alert, be on guard, try to continuously monitor the course of things, also because we do not see around elements that can allow us to completely abandon any caution. After all, today's data also tell us of 44,000 contagions and above all 148 deaths, and we are on May 17th; therefore, we can afford everything except inattention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u32	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law contains provisions for the progressive overcoming of restrictive measures, in view of the evolution of the epidemiological situation and the need to overcome the state of emergency, but bearing in mind that the virus is still circulating, that unfortunately we still have an important daily number of deaths and that there are still requirements to combat the spread of the pandemic, first of all the continuation of vaccinations, which I hope will also be updated with the latest scientific findings. We must be responsible, aware and prepared to deal with the coming months, in the light of the experience of recent years. I still remember the summer of 2020, when books were circulating then withdrawn on how we were good at overcoming the Covid, the first in Europe and the world. The work done in the House by the colleagues of Forza Italia has followed a coherent trajectory with respect to how we have set ourselves since the beginning of the pandemic, with a view to prudence and simplification. From a health point of view, we are aware that the end of the state of emergency does not coincide with the end of the pandemic and its consequences for the health of citizens, even in the long term. In some regions the plan for the post-Covid and the long Covid is in fact being prepared; it is enough to hear someone who had it to understand how sometimes the quality of life really changes and becomes almost a chronic disease. I believe that every citizen who frequents the means of transport of the country realizes the necessity to continue to wear the masks FFP2 during the journey to its protection, despite perhaps some opinion contrary. We are convinced that the FFP2 mask is necessary in hospitals and RSA, for the safety of operators and fragile sick people, who remain the ones most at risk of becoming ill and unable to make it. I also hope that no one will forget the scandal of uncertified masks given to our health care workers in the lane [[Applause]] and I hope that the judiciary will continue with its investigations. We are deeply grateful to all health professionals for their commitment and dedication during the pandemic, which has often cost them their lives. Forza Italia has helped to improve this measure. The end of the medical emergency brings with it the cessation of the powers assigned in these months to the commissioner Son, to whom was entrusted in the first place the management of the vaccination campaign with one of the first acts of the Government Dragons, fortunately. In this respect, I would like to stress once again that, if we have come out of the emergency and the pandemic curve has for some time been substantially under control, this is mainly due to the success of the vaccination campaign, organised and managed in the best possible way by the extraordinary Commissioner. The text confirms the normalization path and the gradual overcoming of the health measures imposed by the pandemic. The system of isolation and self-surveillance so far provided for positive people and close contacts is reviewed, the management of positive cases in nests, in childhood schools, in schools of every order and grade is rewritten. Similarly, the vaccination obligation for workers is reviewed, although it will continue to be mandatory until 31 December for doctors, nurses and health workers. In short, we certify the fact that the country has finally entered a new phase, leaving behind - I hope forever - many of the legal provisions and limitations that have accompanied us in the last two years. We have extended the possibility that the residents of recent years can be hired and accompany the structured doctors; I also hope that in the competition bill an amendment will be approved so that the resident doctors can participate as doctors who collect for the donation of blood, to make our country absolutely independent for plasma and plasma derivatives. We must focus on the new generations, valorize them, put them in a position to operate in our country, with guarantees of working stability, economic and career advancement. On the subject of work today more than ever we must be pragmatic if we want to protect workers and have a look at the future without turning back, even if it is sometimes difficult. On this I would like to make a small inscription, wishing that, before giving other precedents - as has been done, for example, with Article 34 of the Ukraine Decree - our professionals, especially those who shortly will not have a contract and whose contract, indeed, expired and the Regions have not renewed it, will be able to obtain an extension of the contract or finally the stabilization they deserve. Among the many rules introduced during the examination in the Chamber, I would like to mention, thanks to two amendments by colleagues from Forza Italia, the extension envisaged for public and private employees with disabilities, immunodepressed, with oncologic diseases or subject to life-saving therapies so that, where the work cannot be made agile, the period of absence from the service is equivalent to hospitalization. However, it is not enough for fragile workers, because there is still a window of fifty days not recognized and I hope that this measure can also apply retroactively in order to truly protect them. Parents were also provided with the possibility of private employees who have a disabled child or at least one child with special educational needs to perform their work in an agile manner. In these years of pandemics we have tried to protect the pillars of our society and, above all, the fundamental right to health, in addition to those at work and study. I am convinced that the gradualness and prudence demonstrated so far by Parliament and the Government are still to be pursued, with a good ability to communicate directly and simply to the citizens, communication which unfortunately has not been done with the previous Government. We must work and work to ensure that in the coming months and in the future our country is able to be found ready in the face of emergencies of this type. That is why I also urge the famous pandemic plan that we have not yet seen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at last: this is the word that comes to mind first at this moment. At last we are discussing the cessation of the state of emergency due to the pandemic from Covid-19, a moment that seemed never to come. It has been two very long years in which we have all been super committed to dealing with an emergency that had never before been seen in our country: we were accustomed to facing wars and internal problems, but an attack on our lives by a micro-organism of a few nanometers we had never seen or perceived in this way, at least in the last hundred years, so none of us could remember it and certainly not our Republic and our institutional apparatus. There are several predictions in this measure that go in the direction of reopening and the previous Members have already pointed out who one and who another, so I will not repeat myself. What I think is important to highlight in this provision is mainly some of the innovations that have been included by our colleagues in the House. I am thinking, for example, of Article 2-a, which strengthens the activities of the Italian League for the fight against cancer, increasing its staff to encourage and expand cancer prevention and screening campaigns. I am thinking, again, of Article 12, which extends temporary assignments to medical graduates, and of Article 10, with the temporary overcoming of the exclusivity obligation of health workers, i.e. nurses, midwives, physiotherapists, radiology technicians, who up to now have been able to overcome these constraints only during the pandemic, providing for a further extension in this regard. All these rules have a common thread: the overcoming of two years of delay compared to the protection of the health of Italian citizens. This is something I myself have talked about several times in this House. In these two years we have died more than in previous years, on average; but the difference in mortality is not all attributable to Covid. There are people who have died from cancer that has not been diagnosed, from a delay in therapy, because they have had sicknesses and have been afraid to go to the hospital, having a cardiovascular disease that could perhaps be cured without going to a fatal outcome. The pandemic has highlighted some critical issues of our National Health System, that those who have been in charge of health care since before 2020 knew very well to be existing, but could not make the voice heard at the top levels of politics. We finally heard that voice. As President Parrini said, at last there is a substantial increase in the appropriations for the National Health Fund and an increase in the number of residents who are trained in our universities, while a substantial share (more than 20 billion) of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will be allocated to health, to enhance mainly territorial health, the one that has creaked the most in the impact with the Covid, precisely because for decades, before this moment, it has been worked only on the hospital side and all those steps of strengthening territorial medicine, which were already planned, have not been realized or, worse still, have been realized as a leopard spot in our country. What is the main problem of our health care? What is the most critical issue faced by Italian citizens? Unfortunately, the same levels of service are not achieved in all regions. It's a critical issue that shouts revenge at all times, because any one of us, every time he faces a health-related problem, he hears that Region X is ahead and these things have already done, while Region Y is behind and is still abiccì compared to other situations. What we must never forget and on which we must never lower our guard is to try to make sure that in all the regions all Italian citizens have the same levels of care, the same benefits and the same opportunities to care, without having to do that health tourism that unfortunately has been so fashionable in our country for years, that it is so sad to hear and that it should indignant every one of us here in this House. Our duty should be to provide care for all in their homes or in any case within a few kilometres. Another important thing, within this decree-law that we finally prepare to convert into law, concerns paragraph 2 of article 7. Article 7 indicates the gradual steps of overcoming in the use of the strengthened green pass that has accompanied us for many months; we are still using it and we will use it until the end of the year for access to health, social-assistant and social-health facilities and the famous RSA, where many of our elderly are hospitalized. Too often we continue to hear of structures that close the doors and prevent visitors from entering. Every day on social media there is a post or tweet that reports a structure that still applies access restrictions. With this paragraph, inserted by the colleagues of the Chamber, it is established that the director of a health structure can oblige to greater restrictions than the possibilities of access provided for by the norm only in the face of proven reasons, which must promptly signal to the ASL of reference; where the ASL considers that these reasons are not valid for the restrictions, it denies the structure the possibility to put them into effect, allowing the accesses. (at 18.30) I think it is really a step of fundamental civilization that, finally, after two years in which we complained of the restrictions and psychological hardships felt by the people admitted to the structure, we put a brake on the freedom of the leaders of some structures to take decisions that were a little 'too restrictive and precautionary for those who administer, but certainly not for those who are forced to suffer them. Many passages and also many criticisms I have heard from colleagues who have spoken today. Maybe we all forget what it was like between the end of February and the beginning of March 2020, when President Conte assumed the responsibility of closing the country, blocking all activities and telling us that we had to stay home to save lives, because we didn't have any other tools at the time to fight this virus. It has been just over two years and we have several tools: we have first of all the vaccine, which is protecting us to a large extent; there are pharmaceutical innovations; there are doctors who have found therapies to treat patients and reduce mortality. Despite the freedoms that we gave with this decree, I still see so much fear and caution: for example, in supermarkets you could go without mask, but when I go shopping I see that almost everyone wears it. We have all been traumatized by what has happened, the return to normality will be gradual and it is right that it is so, to accompany us also with the support of the knowledge of what the technical-scientific committee has told us for two years, but let us finally enjoy this freedom found. Let's take our steps a little bit at a time, but let's finally get our lives back the way they were before Covid.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u36	The general debate is closed. As established by the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u39	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my message is very clear: do not touch the Alps. Even in the case of harassment denounced by some ladies present at the Rimini meeting, the Alps have demonstrated their unshakable and untouchable moral value. [[Applause]] The leaders of the associations expressed themselves without hesitation: When the alleged culprits are identified, they will be immediately expelled because the values of the Alps are others. I would add: if it is alpine, because, gentlemen, you understand my perplexities, when in an event in which thousands of visitors took part with the alpine hat in the head, bought perhaps for the occasion at the last moment in a souvenir gazebo, you point your finger at a perfect stranger. Generalizing is foolish, but these doubts are not enough to dissuade those today who are asking to stop the gatherings, giving rise to an unprecedented denigratory campaign towards one of the most prestigious realities of which one can only be proud. [[Applause]] The Alps are always there to help those in need in every situation and without ever sparing themselves, also to support cultural and social initiatives and to integrate public services in the most delicate moments. During the pandemic critical phases, their contribution was crucial. As the mayor of Gorizia Rodolfo Ziberna has said, I repeat that the Alps still carry on with force values that should represent the backbone of our society: a sense of duty and sacrifice, solidarity, friendship, spirit of belonging and attachment to traditions. Mr President, attacking the Alps indiscriminately means attacking all these values that represent them. It is very dangerous, because it is an attack on the soul of Italy: the best and the most beautiful Italy. Not even a favor is done to women who, counterintuitively, today, for some unreasonable reason, perceive a compliment or a goliardic externation as an act of violence. [[Applause]] I say this as a woman and as a psychologist: my ladies, you must resolve yourselves. I don't know who's trying to get the image of the Alps dirty, and I don't know what the point is. I do not understand this hatred of the Armed Forces, as has also happened with regard to the Forces of Order. After the media mud thrown on all black feathers, the League considered it necessary to present a motion in every Municipality of Italy, starting from Bergamo, to commit mayors and presidents of Junta to express closeness to the National Alpine Association. I represent Friuli-Venezia Giulia in the Senate and, as spokesperson for my territory, I hear myself saying that these people of nothingness are impregnated with the same ideology as those today who would like to remove the tricolor from the Castle of Gorizia and delete the names of Italian irredentists from streets and schools. Friuli is already at work for the meeting of Udine in 2023, to hug back our beloved black pens. Long live the Alps! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u42	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I must point out a fact that is well known to everyone, but that I think it is important to say in this House. Three days ago, during the City Council of Capaci, the Councillor Luna spoke and said, among others, these sentences, that I read to be precise: Capaci is not a land of mobsters, Capaci is a country of decent people. Does the mob say it's there? Find her. Mr President, in such a situation, thirty years after the massacre in Capaci (on Monday 23 May, thirty years after the massacre in Capaci took place), these statements are absolutely unacceptable. I believe that all political forces and all civil society must call with one voice for the immediate resignation of this adviser. These are absolutely unacceptable words and concepts at this time. [[Applause]] I really expect all political forces to do everything in their power and in our capacity for Councillor Luna to resign immediately. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u45	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind the House that today is the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia to support LGBT people, fight homophobia and prevent and combat discrimination that many people are still forced to live and suffer every day because of their sexual orientation. Fighting homophobia means countering prejudices, fears and irrational aversions towards homosexuality, gay, lesbian, transsexual and bisexual, that is to say the multiform LGBT galaxy. These are stereotypes and prejudices that many people still show in the working environments, in the places of socialization and in the different moments of daily life. These discriminatory attitudes are manifested more or less clearly, with behavior, speech or actual physical and verbal violence against LGBT people. Homophobia is not, in my opinion and according to many scientists, an innate attitude, but a culturally acquired prejudice, that is, the result of a wrong culture, of an anachronistic and non-inclusive way of thinking, a legacy of a more or less near or remote past, which is still unfortunately widespread in different sections of the population. The battle to be overcome through information campaigns and awareness raising is precisely that of a radical cultural change, capable of overcoming the concept of normality and diversity. It is not easy, but also politics and institutions can and must do much more and immediately; also, school and a new school culture will be able to do so much and allow us to overcome those mistaken beliefs that being homosexual is something strange, unnatural and contrary to the norms of common living. Preventing homophobia is possible, spreading a sentimental and sexual education that teaches children not to be afraid of themselves and differences compared to others. We are all equal in diversity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-433.ana.u47	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 18 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.41 a.m.
