ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2505. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for yesterday's interesting and in-depth general debate. I would first like to make a point that responds to some of the demands on the working method of our institutions, raised in particular by Senators Zaffini, De Bertoldi and Iannone about the anomaly of the alternating monocameralism that is characterizing our legislature. It is true: it is an anomaly that comes from previous legislation. There was also a constitutional referendum which tried to change the way in which this anomaly was dealt with. But this eighteenth legislature - it must be admitted - has been invested by extraordinary events since the first moments, with the collapse of the Morandi bridge, floods, Vaia and then again the pandemic, extraordinary interventions on the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience and now the interventions that must respond to a new geopolitical order, that require an extraordinary speed of work of the institutions and that paradoxically alternate monocameralism guarantees. In the budget committee, if we consider economic interventions as mini budget laws, we have made eight mini budget laws and two budget laws in two years. In March 2020, two years ago, we started with the so-called care Italy, today we are at the so-called support-ter and the House has already incardinated the decree-energy law. It has been two really exceptional and extraordinary years that have forced us to work with a method of alternating monocameralism, just to have a great timeliness. Senator Testor recalled the need for institutions to intervene promptly in the face of emergencies and, therefore, the demands of citizens, businesses and families. This method of work paradoxically guarantees us to be more timely, but not always to be exhaustive, as Senator Saccone recalled; the enormous amount of work on institutions sometimes does not allow us to respond to just demands and needs, which must wait some time to be considered. At the same time, this must be an awareness that we have and that also responds to some criticisms and observations regarding the adequacy of this measure, in the face of the situation we are experiencing. It is clear that the decree-law supports- ter does not, alone, have the strength to counter the changed geopolitical, socio-economic and even war framework that we are facing. Support- ter was thought of in a different period; it was just under two months ago, but the period was very different. We imagined that we could close the Covid emergency, properly refresh the activities that had been penalized by closures - such as discotheques - or those in the supply chain - such as the activities that have suffered a reduction in the number of customers, for example the activities of the tourism chain - and then to relaunch by supporting a first phase of the energy emergency. As Senator Rivolta rightly pointed out, this approach has been overcome by events, so the Government and Parliament immediately intervened with the decree-law energy, already incardinated in the House, and then with the next intervention, which is already under study and which will respond to the great energy transition and repositioning of Italy in a key of greater energy independence. This is not a reduction in the value of the decree supports-b, but it is the invitation to the whole Senate to consider this measure as a part, a pillar of a triptych of measures that aims to reposition Italy by giving answers to families and businesses most in difficulty, which are a category different from those hit by the Covid: the companies most moved towards international trade, more globalized, are those that are suffering greatly at this stage. Our economy is in great suffering. President Draghi has used clear words - as he usually does - and has defined this phase as a transition from a market economy to a war economy: it is a phrase that weighs very much only in having to pronounce it. Our work as rapporteurs on the support decree has tried to adapt and fill with politics what the measure could not do, on which - it is clear - we have done a classic conversion work. I would remind you that this is a measure of two billion; the management of Parliament has been allocated 30 million resources which Parliament has decided to finalise in this emergency, giving answers once again to the most penalized groups in the Covid phase. We have reserved and expanded the audience of sectors that could benefit from exemption and wage integration. Once again we have intervened to support the territories affected by the earthquake. We have also tried to meet the very great demands - as Senator De Bertoldi recalled - of the whole business world about the need to reopen the time limits for scrapping, for the balance and removal, giving more time to respond to companies. It was an important work, as was the conversion work with over 90 amendments adopted. I quote the speeches that we heard yesterday, because they demonstrate a substantial work that has modified large parts of the current legislation, trying to give answers to many sectors; to the tourism sector, as the Senators Rivolta and Faggi recalled; to the agricultural sector, as was mentioned by Senators Taricco and Perosino. There were also interventions in favour of the poultry sector, wines with typical geographical indication (IGT); and also interventions to enhance dairy tourism; on culture, in order to support the entertainment operators and exempt from the wage integration many activities and services of the show; interventions still on health - as said by Senator Parente - also with a look towards the health of the future with the electronic health folder. Senator Cantù has rightly reminded us with great force of the need to meet the families of doctors who have spent so much during the Covid phase. We have placed this priority on the majority agenda which will be dealt with in the next decree. Senator Boldrini has proposed amendments which are particularly important for the stabilisation of social workers or for the possibility of medical specialists to cooperate free of charge in blood collection activities. I still remember the speeches of Senator Pirro and Senator Fregolent, who proposed an interesting amendment that, although not accepted, was then taken over. Many speeches have covered another issue that has been central to the measure. I am referring to the operation of the transfer of credits. Many interventions, almost all, have recalled how the intervention of the Government on Article 28 of the measure, with the block of all the activities, has had a very negative impact on the expectations of those who were restructuring their real estate and also on the entire chain of the constructions. It was an absolutely necessary blockade that gave an immediate response to important frauds that the Revenue Agency and the Finance Guard had detected. The rule has been rewritten; we are all convinced that it could have been rewritten in such a way as to give even more impetus to the restructuring activities. You'll be able to work on it again. On the agenda we have committed the Government to make possible the extension of the deadlines for reaching 30% of the progress of work (SAL) and instead we have succeeded in this same intervention to extend from 9 to 27 April the date by which communications can be made to the platform of the Agency of revenue in the choice between the sale of the credit or the discount in invoice. Some problems relating to the scope of credit transferability remain open on this front, limited to two disposals after the first, limited to a banking perimeter. Many of the requests that come in order to allow the countervailableity, and therefore the absorption of such credits, aim to widen this possibility further, allowing an ulterior possibility of cession outside the banking perimeter. Of course, this transfer must be directed towards immediate compensation for the credit itself. Senator Toffanin reminded us that the announcements anticipate events and their consequences, so the effects of the management of this normative rewriting started from the decree-anti-fraud law, then incorporated into the budget law, up to the latter decree-law in conversion, have blocked an entire supply chain. From this point of view, I would remind you that even anticipating - as has been mentioned in this House - any budgetary deviations, which will not necessarily be necessary, can anticipate or have very negative consequences. We have a very positive 2021 from the point of view of economic growth and we know that there will be an area of improvement compared to the debt of 5-6 percent provided in the Update Note to the Document of Economy and Finance (NADEF) of 2021. Therefore, we have high expectations that there will be no need for any deviation and that interventions can be made thanks to the economic push of 2021. A strong call has been made to the Government regarding the need to give answers to the energy crisis, on the part - for example - of Senator Abbot and Senator Santillo. It's particularly important right now. The debate was wide-ranging; we have written a broad agenda, on which the Government has made a very dialogue, proposing specific measures. It is, therefore, an act of direction with a strong political weight, which engages in great collaboration and which must respond not only to the great emergency of families in difficulty and businesses, especially those of energy, but above all to the speculation that is currently on the fuel, also introducing particularly heavy measures for those who have a liberal culture, such as price cap. Other senators have pointed out, as the whole majority has pointed out on the agenda, that the government's work at EU level, at least in two respects, must be particularly qualified, the first of which concerns the renegotiation and rewriting of the temporary framework. There is a huge need for liquidity on the part of companies and, therefore, the temporary framework must give this possibility. The other key issue at this stage is to succeed at European level in rewriting and obtaining a recovery and residence facility to enable Italy to have new resources to cope with the serious energy crisis. I would also like to recall, because it is particularly important, the intervention of Senator Margiotta, who highlighted the theme of the increase in materials, which has a very strong impact on the whole issue of procurement and also on the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The third decree-law supports gave a first answer; the so-called energy decree already contains additional answers and we remember that last week in the Senate was approved the draft law delegation on contracts, which also provides to rewrite all the management of the evaluation of the prices of materials in the case of contracts. It is a great job and the third decree-law supports is an integral part of a triptych of measures that want to be up to - and certainly will - once again, as they were in the pandemic, to bring Italy out of the serious economic crisis in which we pour, that we hope it will not become war. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u5	Mr President, first of all, there is an obligation to say hello and many thanks. Yesterday, undersecretary Guerra was present, who during these weeks was present in the working relationship that we had with the whole Commission and, not only with the majority, but also with the oppositions. This morning we address a special thanks to the undersecretary Sartore, who, in the first person and really with great spirit of self-denial, has worked to improve much the decree under consideration; I decree that - as they have emphasized all and as I will do too - has left in a way and then we have addressed it and brought it to port in another way, carrying out however an excellent job. We thank the Undersecretary Bini, also tireless, who took part in a session defined as semi-night. After all, the agreement that we have built, in the majority and with oppositions, in recent weeks has led us to a semi-night sitting and important results. We complete our thanks to the entire government team, appointing Deputy Minister Laura Castelli - not present today - who participated in the meetings directly at the MEF, and not only by majority, and in the Commission, where he gave his active and important contribution. It is therefore an obligation to really thank everyone. Let us reiterate - and this is what Senator Conzatti once again said - the particular moment that is taking place, so much so that in the next few hours new decrees will be launched that go in the right direction. The historical moment has completely changed compared to last February. The one under consideration is Decree No. 4, a decree issued at the beginning of the year, with the very perspective of that period, in January, when the pandemic and the curves of the pandemic touched the maximum level and began, from that point on, to descend. Hence the importance, as a political majority and for the Government in particular, of issuing a decree that went precisely in the direction of following the curves of the pandemic and riding them down - finally, we could see the light at the end of the tunnel - and, therefore, of giving the last economic support to economic activities. I still want to remember here that, compared to the previous year, when there were fire blankets and a whole series of activities were still semi-closed, instead this year the activities were opened instead. This was why the so-called support decree was launched; a decree of more than 5 billion euros, but then it was halved when, once it was launched, the historical, economic and political situation of the country and the world was changing. At that particular moment the problem of rising prices began. We already had some inflation, but it was the classic economic one, linked to the recovery and the increase of GDP. So it was going to be ruled that way. Instead, with the new geopolitical moment and with the war everything has changed a bit and, from inflation, we have moved to a high price: energy, petrol, oil, which the Italians are touching with hands today. As we all know, when you go to the gas station you notice what - alas - is happening and that we absolutely must avoid. As the scenario changed, the government began to think of other measures. Issues have also been raised on the political side, on the part of all of us, with respect to Decree-Law No. 4: let us think about the question of blocking the sale of credit, also in that case a very important measure that we wanted to support in the financial maneuver, which we have revised and made so that there were extensions. With the blocking of the sale of the credit we have noticed that also that type of economic activity in our country is being stopped. Therefore, our political drive has led the government to intervene again in this case with an act of unblocking. That's why I say that the situations were multiple, but in the end we were able to govern them all together in a certain way. At that point the Government decided to move the decree-law on energy - from a political point of view, for its conversion - to the Chamber of Deputies and part of our decree-law on support - ter went, in the other branch of Parliament, so that we worked on what was left. The decree-law has gone from about 6 billion euros to the current 2 billion. We knew from the first moment - and we immediately spoke with the Government, trying to compact the majority in a great sense of responsibility - that there was no additional resources available for Parliament to improve the text through amending activity. This has created a minimum of tension, having so many proposals their honesty, that we have overcome through a comparison within the majority, and we have managed to bring to port the decree-law. We know that the government is also working in these hours on other measures, as has been announced to us in recent weeks, when we have had an opportunity to have interesting political comparisons. Last week the head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Economy told us important things, including the possibility of anticipating the new economic and financial programming by a month to make sure to arrive at new so-called tax decrees, which serve to help families and businesses. We await the arrival of these measures which are currently more current than the decree-law supports, but which - as I said - has given us the opportunity to work well. The adoption of some 100 non-onerous amendments is, however, a result that we have shared as a majority. In my speech I will also talk about the debate that was held yesterday, which certainly saw some bad mood - I think they are physiological - which struck a little 'all the groups, of course because of the difficulties encountered. There were few resources to be able to make commitments, which is why only non-onerous amendments have been dealt with. In any case, I repeat that the adoption of 100 non-onerous amendments is a very important result. We have all shared together a working methodology that has led to the approval - I would like to emphasise this - of a binding agenda. I think it is very important that, in the next steps that the Government is currently studying and drawing up, we can immediately arrive at our agenda, which we have written until the last hours before arriving here, which brings very topical content, including the findings of the Versailles commitments that the Heads of State have taken, so as to be as up-to-date as possible. On this and on the agenda I would therefore like to concentrate now to explain the important work that has been accomplished. With few resources available and so many costly amendments, we could then choose different ways: to make a stew of so many small measures or to concentrate those resources on some so-called common themes. Each political group submitted some proposals to the government and we finally came to a political synthesis of how to use the resources and focused on some measures. This year we were lucky enough to approve the financial maneuver in which we included many interventions, and some of those left out we tried to recover in the part of the economic resources of this decree, that is, some of those commitments made in the financial maneuver but which did not find room on that occasion. It was therefore necessary to complete that part of the measures for the earthquake which had not been included in the measure of financial manoeuvre. Therefore we commit 10.5 million euros precisely for the story of the so-called inaccessible earthquake of 2012 of Emilia Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto. A comparison between the Groups reveals, also on this, another part of the interventions that we must be able to include in the next decrees, such as those relating to the problem of mortgage payments on buildings rendered unworkable by the earthquake. Many groups thought that, as part of the measures for the earthquake, in addition to the issue of inactibles, the speech on mortgage payments was also addressed, but that was not the case. One proposal that we make immediately to the Government is therefore to provide for this type of intervention. Since the decree is stripped of the energy part and remains the superbonus speech, we have decided to focus on the Ateco and we have decided to make various proposals to the political groups on this very issue. So the audiences have expanded and, not being able to do so surely to economic invariance, because the resources would have been really ridiculous, we decided to intervene in two different phases. We thought, first of all, of committing EUR 10 million and then decided to add another EUR 20 million and to include many requests that today cover many sectors. We had also thought of helping tourism, which in some respects had the opportunity, even last summer, to work quietly. We had thought - also this is a reasoning that we have included in many variants within the Ateco codes - to give support to the tourist cities - today we are in Rome, the capital of Italy, which is the tourist city par excellence - that have really suffered not only with the pandemic, but at this moment also with the war in place, which makes everything more difficult and therefore we must support. We had also thought about the question of cities of art and everything that revolves around them found allocation within the Ateco codes. We thought at that point of the importance of giving a political signal, which united us and met businesses and families, resuming in hand an issue that he had seen in the previous decree thousandprorogates to the House to make another step forward that we had to complete: I am talking about the demolition-b. With the government we have studied an important measure, which opens some windows. Honestly, this measure is appreciated by many and, above all, it has obtained, in a cross-cutting way, the consent of the political groups throughout the constitutional circle. We have managed to put up the measure of scrap-b, with the opening of windows that today give way to resume the path of support and help at a time of great difficulty, in which the decisions to be made in a family and in a business are really particular. There are living expenses to be paid, precisely the current and energy, and there are also the old folders, the ones due to the closure, the pandemic and the previous two years. It is a difficult time and we must try to help families and businesses on several fronts. In this case, we thought about scraping-b and we granted this. [[Call the president back.]] The only problem - which, alas, sorry - is that of the sub-amendments, with which we had tried to give answers, because they were still important. There was a part of the proposals concerning the sale of credits, which was finally reopened, but there was also a part coming from the Groups, because limiting to a speech of banking companies is important; but there was also the possibility of remaining within the framework of the single bank text, possibly allowing other companies in it to accept the transfer of credit and work. On the speech of the superbonus and progress work, I invite the Government to pay attention in the coming weeks to how the work today has the opportunity to resume, so as to evaluate, in a next measure, if there is the need for a mini extension, precisely in order to allow access to the superbonus and the attainment of the deadline of 30 June for the progress of the work. I am sorry that there has not really been time to examine these important proposals, because we have been working on the amendments by now, but they are open issues, which I would like the Government to have on its agenda, with great care, precisely so as not to disperse them. [[Call the president back.]] That is why we have now reached the so-called binding agenda, which takes stock of the situation. The historical moment, as we said, brings together what has happened in these days and weeks. We talked about the commitments that the Heads of State and Government made in Versailles. This brings us to a commitment that Parliament will be voting against the Government today on a number of issues, which are intended to transpose into national law the instruments of the European Union. The issue of the moratorium on mortgages is also another hot and important issue, which requires the Government, the MEF and the Treasury Department to look very closely at Europe as well. The prices of fuels, energy, VAT and excise duties must be reduced. There is a package of commitments that we invite the Government to take seriously. As I said, yesterday as rapporteurs we listened to the speeches of all the political groups, from which critical issues emerged. For some time now we have drawn some important questions that concern, for example, the fact that we work and only tie ourselves in a Chamber; also this time - alas - we are faced with a monocameralism, which we certainly condemn all, because we would like the measures to be discussed... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u6	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u7	Mr Damiani, rapporteur. I'll finish. Other situations have emerged, however, which we have dealt with. That is why in the end it was summarized: there are little pieces of proposals from each Group that have not found allocation, but that are in the attention of a political confrontation within the majority. These have been the weeks that have seen us draw up a measure that is coming to this House today, which, however, has seen everyone participate by a large majority and share together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u8	Senator Damiani, I say this for your own good: in twenty minutes of surgery with the mask you create a hypoxia that can also cause brain damage. However, the time is ten minutes per rapporteur. I am a little flexible, but if there is a need for further time, I can also suspend it and then leave again. I call the rapporteur, Senator Misiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u9	Mr President, I agree with the thanks which my fellow rapporteurs have expressed to the representatives of the Government, including undersecretary Sartore and undersecretary Bini, who are present here, but I also recall the valuable role played by undersecretary Guerra and vice minister Castelli in supporting the amendment of parliamentary groups, under complicated conditions of departure, as my colleagues have mentioned: tight times and an allocation of resources objectively little more than symbolic to finance the amendments. I would like to begin by thanking the senators who spoke during the general debate and also those who opposed it. We have listened to the vehement tones of Senator Zaffini and the more measured ones of his colleagues, from Senator De Bertoldi to the other representatives of the opposition. These are legitimate criticisms and stimuli that the Government has a duty to listen and to collect. I would like to thank the senators and the majority senators, many of whom have stressed the importance and importance of many of the amendments that have been approved by the Senate Budget Committee. Senator Boldrini recalled the amendment that led to the exemption from the payment of the IMU for the unusable properties of the 2012 earthquake and that made it possible to equate the treatment reserved to them with that for the buildings concerned by the exemption foreseen for the 2016 earthquake. Senators Dell'Olio and Perosino recalled the amendment on municipal and provincial secretaries, a very important theme for the functionality of municipalities, starting from those of small size: with that amendment we give the possibility to call in service the secretaries in quiescence or close to quiescence, in the more of the completion of the competition procedures. It is an amendment which deals with a subject very much felt by the local authorities, as many colleagues know, having been affected by this problem. Senator Parente recalled the amendment on the electronic health file. Senator Margiotta mentioned the changes we have introduced to the regulation of the EIA-VAS commission for the projects of the Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate and of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, which should speed up the process of strategic projects for the future of the country. Senator Rivolta recalled the extension of the timing of approval of the health report of the Regions, a topic very much felt by the administrations, which we have faced with an orderly amendment, but which gives answers on the subject of health. My colleagues - and last, Senator Damiani - rightly reminded us of the agenda that we have prepared, which gathers proposals and requests from the majority groups, but also shared by the opposition, which we have not been able to deal with because of the very limited financial envelope in the discussion of this measure, but that we are sure that the Government will make its own in those under discussion in the Chamber: I remember Decree-Law No 17 of 2022, while tomorrow there is a Council of Ministers that should take a full measure that will deal with energy, but also with industrial policy and important issues from an economic point of view. With regard to the amendment which extended the terms of the break-up and the balance and deleted it, Senator De Bertoldi complained about an undue appropriation - pass me this inappropriate expression - of this issue by the majority groups. I naturally respect and remember the initiative taken by the Brothers of Italy on the subject, but, as many colleagues have mentioned - Senators Conzatti, Toffanin and Rivolta and Senators Damiani and Fenu - that similar initiatives were presented in the amending session also by the majority groups. This is an issue of great importance, heard by over half a million taxpayers, which we have successfully resolved, gathering demands from the opposition, but also amending proposals from the majority. Senators De Bertoldi, Santillo and Dell'Olio have dealt extensively with the issue of the transfer of credits, on which unfortunately we have not been able to intervene with improvements as we would have liked and I want to stress this, claiming a role that Parliament unfortunately could not exercise. Colleagues, the fact that we had to intervene in fraud related to the disposal of building bonuses credits, I think it was before everyone's eyes. The data provided by the Revenue Agency were and are impressive: fraud for more than 4 billion euros, actually - and so many colleagues have correctly remembered - less on the 110% superbonus and much more on other incentive tools, from the restructuring of the facades to the building one, to the ordinary energy redevelopment. It was necessary to intervene, because fraud was of great significance, but Article 28 of the Decree-Law under consideration, in its initial wording, had provided for an excessive grip. As the opposition recalled, but also the majority senators, the narrow one risked throwing away the child with dirty water and completely blocked the work, regardless of whether they were suspected of illegal activities or conducted, as in the vast majority of cases, with full regularity and in compliance with the rules. The Government has therefore done well to issue subsequently a decree-law that has corrected this strait and has reopened to a greater number of cessions. We would have liked to have further improved the new text of Article 28, but unfortunately we have not been able to do so. We hope that these changes will be accepted in subsequent measures. Colleagues Taricco, Toffanin, Testor and many others have recalled, as regards the part dedicated to dear energy, that this decree-law - which follows so many measures that have addressed the issue - allocates important resources, but insufficient compared to the gravity of the energy crisis that the country is facing. I believe that this is acceptable and I feel that I do so, taking into account what has happened over the last few months. The government has been active against expensive energy since the second half of 2021 and since then five measures have allocated a total of 16 billion euros. I would like to recall Article 5-a of Decree-Law No 73 of 2021, Decree-Law No 130 of 2021, Article 1, paragraphs 503 to 512 of Budget Law 2022, the measure under consideration, namely Decree-Law No 4 of 2022, Support-B, and Decree-Law No 17 of 2022, which, as I recalled, is currently being examined by the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that in the abstract the measures provided for in this measure were significant in order to deal with the situation before the Ukrainian crisis, but they are clearly insufficient today. I want to remind you, because it is right to do so in response. Article 14 also zeroed the system charges for users over 16.5 kilowatts, with a budget of 1.2 billion. Article 14-a, which we have introduced with our own amendment and which I believe is of significant value to those who benefit from it, provides for the establishment of a fund to reduce energy costs for life-saving medical equipment. This is a €3 million fund for 2022, which will help many families already suffering an important medical situation and which must also bear dramatically increased energy costs. Article 15 establishes the tax credit for energy companies and is worth 540 million euro for the first quarter of 2022. Article 15-a, which was actually Article 16 in the original text, introduces the two-way compensation mechanism for electricity prices, from the beginning of February to the end of the year, for renewable producers, with an estimated, conservatively and conservatively, revenue of EUR 1.3 billion. Now, Decree-Law No 17 of 2022 has extended and strengthened so many of these measures. For the second quarter of 2022, it extended the zeroing of the system charges for electricity and the reduction of VAT for gas. It strengthened the social bonus energy, extended the tax credit for the energy that we introduced in this decree-law, introduced a former novo for gasiver companies and provided for measures that we discussed in the amending. I think of the interventions for the road haulage, but also the contributions for the associations and the amateur sports societies; I think of the support for the liquidity of the enterprises that have to deal with the dear energy; it is of topics that we have discussed in the course of the examination of this decree-law, even if we did not have the financial spaces. They have been dealt with in the meantime by Decree-Law No 17 of 2022 and this has allowed us to overcome a significant political node, which had emerged during the discussion of this measure. Decree-Law No 17 also addressed another issue which we discussed, namely the contribution to local authorities, which also face the enormous increase in energy bills. As many Members have said, first in the Commission and then in the House during the general debate, we need a leap in scale to deal with the energy emergency in our country. I would like to recall, as a member of the Democratic Party (but these proposals are shared by many political parties and by many economic and social associations), that we must intervene on several fronts, first of all at European level, as Mr Cingolani said yesterday. The European Commission's RePower EU communication really marks a discontinuity in energy policies, because it addresses for the first time in a decisive way the issue of diversification of sources of supply, with Europe being freed from Russian gas supplies. It talks about speeding up renewable sources, but also about taxation of extra profits and the use of auction revenues Emissions trading schemes (ETS), and it puts in place a number of instruments that the national states will then be called upon to collect. However, I would like to return to the issues which Mr Cingolani stressed and which the European Union has not yet put to the ground, as it were. The European gas price cap is a key element from the point of view of costs for businesses and households; it can only be addressed at European level, given the contractual power that Europe has (three quarters of the world's tube gas imports are carried out by the 27 countries of the European Union). Then there is the doubling of the selling prices of electricity that comes from renewables compared to that of thermoelectric source, because today the price of renewables (even if there we intervened with article 15- bis of this decree) is linked to the evolution of gas. If the gas rises, the price of energy produced by renewables also rises, even if the cost of hydro, solar and photovoltaic remains absolutely the same as before. This is once again a subject to be addressed at European level. And then - many colleagues have also mentioned it - there is the idea of an energy recovery fund that in Europe does not yet have the necessary sharing to be grounded, but it is a work track to follow. I believe that it would already be very important if Europe, in order to deal with expensive energy, set up a similar instrument to that adopted for the first part of the pandemic: Sure is the €100 billion program that was then designed and implemented quickly to finance the interventions of social shock absorbers in all European countries. It has been very successful and used by all, in a very important way by Italy. I think it would be an important step forward to adopt a similar energy instrument. We must also make this leap of scale at national level. I'm thinking about support for families. Today we have zeroed the system charges on electricity and have significantly reduced them on gas. In addition, we have a social bonus electricity and gas that the Government has boosted with 912 million euros in the first quarter and 400 more in the second. This bonus goes to 2.5 million households for electricity and 1.5 million for gas. This tool works well automatically and without so many bureaucratic burdens: there is an automatic transmission of the ISEE declaration from the INPS to the ARERA, which within a month translates into a discount in the bill. We believe that this instrument can and should also be extended to families with a higher ISEE (€15,000-20,000), including the middle class that is greatly suffering the dear energy in this country and that we have so far not helped enough. The government must intervene on the price of fuel and most likely in the Council of Ministers tomorrow will decide on a cut in excise duties. I think this cut should be very relevant. We must bring the price of petrol and diesel below the threshold of two euros and fully assess the instrument that has put Slovenia, a Member State of the European Union, in other words a ceiling on the prices of petrol and diesel at the pump for a temporary period, but that gives the market a strong signal of the value that this issue has for consumers and of the will of the public authorities to intervene with the utmost determination. I'll move on to the last theme. Support for businesses is also addressed in the measure under consideration and reinforced by Decree-Law No 17 of 1 March 2022, but we must do much more. I am thinking of tax credits for companies that are energetic and aggressive: they are important instruments, but they must be extended until the end of 2022, in order to give a certain time horizon to companies that have to face the dear energy. I think of the topic of road haulage, on which intervenes the quoted decree-law n. 17. However, further measures are needed and action needs to be taken on the automatic adjustment of charges in relation to expensive energy. We also need a tax credit for fuel costs and - Mr Boccardi and Mr Saccone have mentioned this in this debate too - measures for the liquidity and assets of companies. The Commission communication sets out a new temporary framework, a new temporary framework for State aid, which we hope will come as soon as possible. I believe that those rules will allow us - we hope - to do the things we wanted to do in this decree-law (I think of the extension of the moratorium on loans for companies or other measures to ensure liquidity and asset strengthening), but without success, because the European regulatory framework does not allow it to date. How do we finance these measures? I call for two roads, which we have discussed a long time ago. We have dealt with the issue of extra-profits in Article 15-a of the measure under consideration for renewable producers, but we also have to do so for other electricity producers. In fact, it is not possible to ask for a contribution, as President Draghi has pointed out several times, only to wind and photovoltaic producers, who, as many Members have pointed out here, represent the type of electricity production that represents the real highway to free themselves from fossils and reduce and zero CO2 emissions. So, we have to ask everyone for a contribution. The European Commission has opened the way with RePower EU. It is also time for Italy to make a contribution of solidarity to be asked of electricity producers, who are making much higher revenues as a result of the market trend of these months. It is also necessary to continue to use the proceeds of ETS auctions to restore households, businesses, local authorities and the third sector, which have grown enormously in recent months as a result of the increase in prices. There will be an important Council of Ministers tomorrow. Between the end of the month and the beginning of April we will discuss the document of economy and finance, that could present margins of public finance regarding the numbers reported in the Note of update to the DEF. I believe that, between tomorrow and the launch of the DEF, the government must build additional responses to the gravity of the emergency that we are facing and to meet the families, businesses, the third sector and public administrations, who are serving the enormous increase in energy costs and in some cases are even stopping production: this is what is happening in energy-intensive sectors, such as the paper industry, glass, foundry and so on. We have a duty to intervene with the necessary effectiveness to be at the side of the Italian families, the companies of our country and all the Italians who are tightening their teeth, but deserve full support from the public policies of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u10	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u11	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u12	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not repeat what has been said in reply by the rapporteurs, with whom I have to say that the work has been very profitable throughout this period, but I would like to remind you, as the rapporteurs, Mrs Damiani and Mr Conzatti, have pointed out, that the measure was adopted on 27 January, in a very different context from what we are now in, and was essentially intended to support the sectors of the economy in relation to the emergency contingent situation Covid, therefore looking at the closed activities and indicating aid measures to enterprises with the provision of grants and tax credits. It is clear that the measure is part of that logic. In this context, however, the measures for the benefit of the regions for health expenditure, as well as those for local and regional authorities, are also included. In this regard, I would like to briefly recall Senator Zaffini's intervention. In fact, it is not just 400 million: in this provision yes, but there are another 400 in the provision currently in the attention of the House, Decree-Law No 17 of this year. It is therefore a total of 800 million, which will not complete the intervention, but surely are increasing what already in the budget law had been transferred to the Regions always in relation to the sanitary expenses for the Covid. I would like to repeat what the rapporteurs, Mr Misiani and Mr Damiani, have said: a very important amendment has been adopted on this subject, which concerns accounting profiles. Sometimes we think that only resources are needed, but we have shown that it is not only those that are needed to improve and complete a government measure. It is possible, in fact, to intervene with measures of an orderly nature, which improve the sectors and which are useful to those who have to put them in place. Sometimes, even a genuine interpretation serves to keep the administration of the local authorities going (I am not thinking only of the central administration). That amendment provides for an extension of the one-month operating budget for health-care establishments from April to May. It is planned to extend the consolidated Energy Services Manager (GSE) and to extend the whole game on the health system. This gives the regions a little more breath. Yesterday at the Conference of the Regions went the share of the famous 800 million. Finally, in this amendment, there is also the possibility of including the payback paid by pharmaceutical companies - excuse me if I say so in technical terms, but those who are here are familiar with it. This measure still covers some of the gaps that the regions today have in relation to the fact that unfortunately they had set aside resources, in cases where the pharmaceutical companies had not paid or were in dispute, which they could not use to cover their own financial statements. I think this rule of law is much more important than 20, 30 or 50 million more resources. The rules which contain the use of surpluses for local authorities are also very important. We must always remember that we are in a measure that is in the midst of the budget law and the decree-energy law. Many issues on which we could intervene here have already been the subject of government intervention in the aforementioned decree and are a sort of continuation. We have sometimes had limited ground on which to intervene. There are also interventions for the school, the university and the family. I still remember the whole game of the contrast to the increase in energy according to the logic highlighted by the rapporteur Misiani, the budget law and the decree. We are always talking about a decree of two billion, it is not a decree of nothing. It is true that today we have to talk about many billions, but on the whole between the budget law, the measure under our scrutiny and the decree-energy law we are talking about tens of billions. This means that we have taken action to reduce costs for the system charges for the first quarter. The other provides for the second quarter. Moreover, there is also a tax credit for energy companies. We all know, however, that another measure is being put in place in these hours with regard to what has happened in the meantime. We have the problem of fuels and, again, energy. But it is evident that sometimes history and therefore the events of the moment anticipate us. However, I must say that, from the point of view of energy, the Government has also carried out measures since 2021, when the events of the war in Ukraine were not objectively planned or discussed. I would define the measure as one of the elements of the overall and wider design of interventions in this area. I just want to say that we actually sometimes feel that we are talking about what needs to be done, as if nothing had been done so far. I think that Parliament and the Government have legislated in this area. The government has proposed, Parliament has legislated. We weren't stopped. It takes more, however, and this will happen in the next few days. The intervention, however, cannot be ignored. I also want to say that I am convinced that during the examination in the Budget Committee the text has improved, as the rapporteurs have said. 100 amendments have been adopted by all political forces, by the majority and opposition groups, which I always thank for the patience with which they listen, even when we express our views against them. There are a lot of these speeches and they concern a lot of issues. I am thinking of tourism: we have certainly improved intervention in this area. I am also thinking of the school and the extension of the Ateco codes. The work that has been done on the Ateco seems strange, but it is a very important issue. As for the extension of the audience of those who access the exemption from payment of the additional contribution, Parliament has added very many sectors, starting with the chain of hotels-restaurants-cafés (Horeca); already there was the chain of land transport, as well as the agencies and tour operators, but the sectors of the wholesale trade, fruits and vegetables, meat, dairy products, sugar and beverages have been added; we are talking about a very important chain, to which we have given a minimum of breath. I am also referring to the whole part relating to the management of theatres, concert halls and artistic structures. We have thought about everything, about recreational activities, about the whole part of food production, up to construction. I believe that Parliament has done a great deal of work, with some of the resources available to it; it has not wasted them in small quarters, but it has concentrated them on two very important interventions: the one on decontribution and the one on the earthquake. After all, we have done something important for the Regions and for the citizens of Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna and Veneto, who still have inaccessible properties. Senator Damiani is right, because in order to complete the intervention we must intervene on the part of the mortgages. The intervention in this area was done in Article 41 of the decree-energy law for the territories of Central Italy; we can also add in that case the part that does not have a great economic importance, but a certain scope. With an amendment by Senator Pesco, we spoke about the management of the swimming pools, which I would like to recall. This is a specific operation, knowing that swimming pools (also municipal) have problems. I believe that there have been interventions in many areas, for example, I would also like to point out that, as Senator Misiani said, we have adopted measures on public transport, including support for local and regional operators, on various sectors of agriculture such as aquaculture, as well as for universities. All this with amendments of parliamentary initiative: for example, I would like to remind you of the 5 Star Movement's amendment on improving the quality of university and specialist training in the health sector. These are, in other words, qualified interventions. I would also like to mention an amendment by the opposition, accepted by the whole majority and recalled by Senator Misiani, setting up a fund to reduce energy costs for families with people suffering from serious diseases. It is an important measure, which is a first step in recognising them. Let's look at the subject of the intervention, because it's the dialogue that counts. Interventions were also made for the Forces of the Order, Carabinieri and Police, with amendments, as well as economic support for the workers of the live show, the film sector and the audiovisual sector. Finally, but not least, I would like to mention an operation that everyone wants, namely the repayment in terms for those who have fallen out of scrap-b and balance and excavation. We now give it as an acquired one, but it was Parliament that did it: by pushing the government, it got this done. The merits must be divided: indeed, in this case they must not be divided at all, because the Government has done what Parliament has wanted. These measures cover 2020, 2021 and 2022. We also reopened in 2020, only for a month, but we have given a chance and we have also done something about trusts, with capitalization and thus guaranteeing greater liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises that use trusts. Again: provisions on the recruitment of municipal and provincial secretaries, recalled by Senator Damiani, but also by Senator Misiani. This is also a problem for local authorities. We must do more for the municipalities, for the small municipalities, helping them in the current part of the budget. You need to help them on this, because they now have the resources to invest but have problems on the part related to operation. I thank all the rapporteurs, with whom I have always spoken serenely, without serious discussions. However, I would also like to mention the content of the debate during the majority meetings which led to these amendments. I also thank the opposition, Senator Calandrini and Senator De Carlo. In the budget committee the work is collegiate. I would therefore like to thank Senator Rivolta and Senator Tosato, as well as all the members of the Budget Committee and, last but not least, Senators Daniele Manca and Errani. It can also be discussed, but from discussion and listening we act in the logic of improving the texts. I regret it and sometimes regret it, but unfortunately in some cases I have to make a few objections. It is right that these opposing opinions should be given the reasons and I have to admit that sometimes we can and others not because we run too fast. Some amendments, however, including that of Senator Cantù, will certainly be in-depth, like many others of the Movimento 5 Stars and all the other Groups. At this point in the next measure, we will have another instrument in which we can include them, perhaps with greater depth, which I will already do. I am not talking about the transfer of credit, because it has already been improved by the inclusion by Parliament of the amendment which included Decree-Law No 13 of 2022. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked the State Secretary to speak to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Senator Bini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u14	Mr President, I too would like to join in the thanks expressed by Mr Sartore in this House by the rapporteurs, Senator Damiani, Senator Conzatti and Senator Misiani. I would also like to thank the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, for the tenacity with which he has carried out his work and also for the positive rigidity sometimes imposed by the need to respect all the rules, times and working methods. I would like to thank all the leaders of the 5th Commission, including the opposition, for their constructive work, with positive merit, which we have managed to gather in some cases. It has not always happened, but I believe that what has been collected, as for life-saving machinery, has certainly been a positive, constructive contribution, which has enriched the measure also for this majority. I would like to thank all the senators and senators who have worked on this measure, but also the Commission offices, the MEF offices and those of relations with Parliament. I cannot forget my colleagues in government: undersecretary Sartore, but also undersecretary Guerra and deputy minister Castelli. Colleagues, yesterday I listened to a part of the general debate, with your criticism, about the issues you raised. I say this as a Undersecretary for relations with Parliament, but I speak first of all as a senator who was sitting on the other side until a few months ago, which is why I understand how difficult it is for Parliament to understand the limited timing and not be able to find the appropriate answers from the Government precisely for the emergency phases in which we came across. Every time we try to make the maximum effort, but every time there is one piece missing, something is missing, answers are missing, which first of all sorry to us not being able to give. I am thinking of Senator Saccone's amendment, Senator Briziarelli's or Senator Fregolent's amendment, to which we have committed ourselves in the Commission to finding solutions in a forthcoming measure. We do not do it lightly; we are not happy that the times of conversion require to do quickly and do not give the opportunity to give the answers on everything. I think about what Senator Dell'Olio said yesterday, when he asked the question of not having had answers to the sub-amendments: it is very true, Senator Dell'Olio, we are the first to be sorry about this fact. Unfortunately, I know that our displeasure is not enough to solve a problem, but you must try to understand with us what has happened; you have said it in many during the general discussion. The Council of Ministers approved the decree-law support- ter on 28 January; it was another geological era, despite the fact that fifty days have passed: the Covid still seemed present, but perhaps it could slow down a little; there was no war in Ukraine. Today, the Covid, which had slowed down, is growing again and in the meantime there is a new emergency, because this war is creating an immense economic problem for our country and for Europe as a whole. In this sense, as many of you have said, this decree-law risks being no longer current, no longer being updated to the time we are living. That is why we have raised a problem and you have done well as a majority to present the agenda, which the Government has accepted. A full agenda of many topics, from energy to fuels, to energy-intensive enterprises, from road haulage to local authorities, to the agricultural sector, to tourism: all issues on which there is a deep crisis and the conversion of this decree-law could not be sufficient to try to solve them even in the slightest with the minimum resources that Parliament had available. Nevertheless, I believe that the parliamentary examination of the measure has greatly improved it, because we have succeeded - with spending amendments, but also with legal proposals - in making a positive contribution to the country. I am thinking of the subject of scrapping ter and the question of readmission in terms, the Ateco codes, the payback for pharmaceutical companies, the earthquake, the life-saving machinery that I referred to earlier, the municipal and provincial secretaries as well as the extension of the regional budgets. I'm thinking about the thermal bonus, the sale of the credit. (at 10:56 a.m.) (BINI, Undersecretary of State for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers) I think of a whole series of issues and fundamental issues that, sometimes even at zero cost, still allow to give breath to some sectors and sometimes even at a cost, because however on the Ateco and the earthquake we have taken measures that, albeit with small figures, have managed to resolve some issues. It is not that this solves the problem that is growing in the country, on which is now under consideration the decree energy to the House and on which there will be other measures by the Government, because the crisis that is announced and is in progress we do not know when it will end and above all what form it will take. However, we know that our country will also have to rethink to some extent its own energy sources and will have to find a way to overcome emergencies and critical situations. We will prepare ourselves for this with new regulatory measures and trying, in the next measures, to do more and more in our relations with Parliament (I greet Mr D'Incà, who has just reached me). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u15	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u16	Madam President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, which substantially transposes the amending proposals approved by the Commission, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u17	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with and for the effects of Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 10.57 a.m. and resumed at 12.22 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has assessed, in accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the amendment tabled by the Government, which is entirely replacing the text of the decree-law in question and considers it admissible in accordance with Articles 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2505, converting Decree-Law No 4 of 27 January 2022 into law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u19	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government and, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, forwards the text of the amendment to the Budget Commission, which is now authorised to convene. The sitting shall be suspended until 1.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.24 p.m. and resumed at 13.31 a.m.) I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u20	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that does not preclude conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the insertion of the following amendments: - in Article 10-a, the following paragraph shall be added at the end: To the compensation in terms of debt and needs, pairs to 34,638,000 euros for the year 2022, it is provided by means of correspondent reduction of the Fund for the compensation of the financial effects not previewed to the legislation in force consequent to the update of multi-annual contributions, referred to in article 6, paragraph 2, of the decree-law 7 October 2008, n. 154, converted, with modifications, from the law 4 December 2008, n. 189. Art. 2 (a) (b) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) ( Urgent measures for health managers of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance) 1. In order to ensure support for the public health activities provided by the health management of the Ministry of Health, also in emergency, and for equal conditions with the corresponding professional figures of the institutions and companies of the National Health Service: a) in article 17, paragraph 1, of the law of 11 January 2018, n. 3, the words: "with the exception of article 15-c and related allowances" are deleted; b) to the managers of the health role of the Ministry of Health referred to in article 17, paragraph 1, of the law 11 January 2018, n. 3, still remaining the exclusivity of the employment relationship, is recognized, from 1 January 2022, the compensation of exclusivity of relationship previewed for the correspondent professional figures of the institutions and companies of the National Health Service with exclusion of the increment referred to in article 1, paragraph 407, of the law 30 December 2020, n. 178,. This provision shall not apply to the staff referred to in paragraph 3-a of Article 17 of Law No. 3 of 11 January 2018. 2. To the expenses deriving from the paragraph 1, pairs to euro 6,251,692 for the year 2022, to euro 6,106,273 for the year 2023 and to euro 6,057,800 from the year 2024 is done by means of corresponding reduction of the appropriation of the Special Fund of current part enrolled under the Program and Special Reserves of the mission "Sounds to be shared" of the state of forecast of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, for the purpose partially utilizing the provision relative to the Ministry of Health. 3. In order to strengthen the operational efficiency of its structures, including in relation to the objectives and interventions provided for by the PNRR, the Ministry of Economy and Finance is authorised to assume with effect not before 1 October 2022, in addition to the existing assumptions, with corresponding increase of the current organic endowment, with contract of employment subordinate to indefinite time, a quota of staff so composed: (a) 25 managers of second group, of which five units to be allocated to the administrative and accounting extra-hierarchical checks within the General Inspectorate for the inspection services of public finance and 20 units to which to confer assignments of advice, study and research in the number of five units for each of the departments of the Ministry; (b) 100 units to be placed in the third area - economic position F1; (c) 60 units to be placed in the second area - economic position F2. The recruitment of the aforementioned contingent of staff is effected through the indication of public competitions, also through the recourse to the Commission for the implementation of the Project for the Requalification of Public Administrations (RIPAM) referred to in article 35, paragraph 5, of the legislative decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, through the sliding of existing rankings of public competitions or through voluntary mobility procedures, pursuant to article 30 of the aforementioned legislative decree 30 March 2001, n. 165. 4. For the implementation of paragraph 3, an expenditure of € 800,000 for the year 2022 for the management of insolvency proceedings and an expenditure of € 200,000 for the increased operating costs resulting from the recruitment of the said staff quota is authorised. For 2022, expenditure of EUR 328,115 and, from 2023 onwards, expenditure of EUR 1,312,450 for the payment of the staff of the areas to be recruited pursuant to paragraph 3, of the remuneration due for overtime benefits shall also be authorised. 5. The costs arising from the application of paragraphs 3 and 4, equal to EUR 4,072,880 for 2022 and EUR 12,291,510 per year from 2023, shall be covered by a corresponding reduction in the appropriation of the special fund of current part entered, for the purposes of the three-year budget 2022-2024, under the "Source and special funds' programme of the "Source to be allocated' mission of the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for 2022, for the purpose partially using the provision relating to the same Ministry.'; - Article 26-d is deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u21	Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u22	Yes, Mr President, the Government accepts the comments of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u23	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text) tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 4 of 27 January 2022 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u26	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the decree that we are converting today was issued to respond to the fourth wave of Covid-19 and to consolidate the interventions against the expensive bills. It seems like a long time ago, and yet it's only been six weeks. The outbreak of the war in Ukraine, as Minister Cingolani well explained yesterday, was the peak of a speculative strategy on the costs of gas to families and businesses, even Italian. This speculation is bringing out not only the energy companies, but all those who have in energy an important voice of their business costs. Added to this are the shortages of raw materials, such as maize, wheat, cast iron and clay, which are putting food processing companies, steel and the ceramic industry in deep difficulty. These elements, combined with inflation, risk creating the perfect storm. It is up to the Government to assess whether, in order to support families and businesses, it is necessary to resort to a new budgetary deviation or whether the resources of extra-VAT are sufficient. What is certain is that we need to do quickly to cool the costs of energy and fuel, to secure all those companies that are already working at a loss. Above all, we need Europe. As the pandemic taught us, one can only get out of the crisis with a united momentum. Europe can curb the speculation on the strong gas of its being the main buyer on the world markets. At the same time, it is called upon to make a leap in terms of integration through the common European debt, not to frustrate what has already been put on the field with Next Generation EU. Mr President, in order to return to the measure, the Commission has made some improvements which need to be highlighted: the rule to protect the budgets of local authorities, which are among the most exposed to expensive energy; the extension of the audience of the beneficiaries of refreshments, with the emphasis on the tourism, fruit and vegetables, wedding and entertainment sectors. With this in mind, the remodulation of the time for VAT payments and withholding taxes for activities most affected by the restrictions, such as discotheques and dance halls, is also good. It is very important to extend the deadline for the payment of the instalments of the break-up-b and the new timetable for the balance and cancellation of the years 2020-2021-2022, a fact that affects more than 500,000 taxpayers, about 43% of those who have used it, as evidence of the serious liquidity problems that still persist in our productive fabric. Positive is the majority agenda on moratorias, with the commitment binding on the Government to take charge of it in European. Well, then, the approval of some amendments that concern our territories: the one for the consolidation of scholarships in the Provinces of Bolzano and Trento, the one with which the share of the resources of the Ministry of Infrastructure and sustainable mobility is allocated to territorial projects and the innovative program for the quality of living, whose aim is to requalify and increase the heritage destined to social housing. The amendment which puts in circulation a share of non-expense resources of the system Trust in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises in the national territory. Above all, the amendment that indicates our Provinces among the bodies required to contribute to the reduction of polluting emissions and that is why they are included in the allocation of resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan on Sustainable Mobility. The adoption of an agenda on European resources for local public transport to the Provinces is also positive in this respect. In conclusion, Mr President, today we are voting in favour of this measure with the awareness that a new, difficult season has begun. Opposing war involves economic costs, but, as President Mattarella said, these would be far less than those that would be paid if that drift was not stopped now. What we must do is put in place an articulated mechanism to ensure that these costs do not break the social and economic fabric of the country: reduce energy dependence, support families and businesses, get to the common European debt. In this delicate phase, of profound transformation of world structures, we must demonstrate that democracy is the system that best protects the interests of citizens and the free economic initiative, and it is with this hope that I announce the vote in favour of the Per le Autonomie Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u29	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the grip of a tension: to put it bluntly, she is the leader of a well-known Italian pasta house brought to its knees by the effects of the surge in electricity and gas bills and by the crazy prices of raw materials; increases caused by the economic consequences of the pandemic and made even more dramatic by the war in Ukraine. These are words that testify how high the risk is that the Italian recovery, instead of recovering the heavy losses suffered because of the Covid, is again overwhelmed by the price race. A very dangerous risk, just now that our economy seemed to be able to grow again. That is why this measure is needed, and so much so, because it provides for a series of actions aimed at combating the rise in energy prices and at encouraging the re-starting of the sectors most affected by the pandemic. With this decree-law we foresee ambitious resources, more than 1.5 billion euros both for direct support to the sectors most penalized and for financing against the increases in bills that are ruinously compromising the economic recovery, because even in these dramatic days, linked to the war in Ukraine, it should not be forgotten that the heavy economic consequences of the pandemic are not yet overcome at all. Actually. So our vote today goes to support those economic activities that have suffered most during the last months of Coronavirus. During this difficult period it is our duty to support the economy. Until twenty days ago we were in such a good phase of recovery that we were envyed from all over Europe. Now, on the other hand, the raging of war once again puts a strain on our companies. That is why we must do the impossible to ensure that that momentum of only three weeks ago is not lost. That is our task; that is the challenge we need to face. We are pleased that, thanks to the adoption of a number of our amendments, we are helping the retail business, for example, precisely those small shops that have suffered so much during the lockdown due to the growing tendency to order everything online, but we also expect concrete aid for a whole range of sectors: for example, tourism, culture, sport, discos. There are a number of aids, but time does not allow me to explain them all, which is why I ask you, Mr President, to be able to submit the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Garavini (IV-PSI). There is another amendment approved in this measure that we are particularly proud of, a result that represents a concrete step towards a health care of the future: thanks to a proposal own of Italy Viva, carried out by our colleague, the President Parente, will begin to construct finally in a concrete way the electronic health file, a useful tool for the best prevention and strategic for the diagnosis and treatment of each disease. I mean, a real revolution for our health care. I am also particularly pleased with the adoption of a further amendment, with which we aim to combat the many scams that have occurred with recent building renovations, which is also a way to make it clear that public resources must only be used to support companies that operate legally and must not, on the contrary, make money for those who want to do business in a scam way. Today, however, we do not just decide on measures to counter the consequences of Covid, but we also take important action against the increase in bills, all without any further budgetary deviation. That is why it is important to have recovered resources to invest for a double objective: to free companies from the system charges usually charged in bills and at least partially compensate for the higher burdens of energy companies through a tax credit of 20%, through a line of intervention, Madam President, which is in total harmony with European action. In fact, also thanks to the proposals made by Italy, Europe is working on solutions that aim to make us less dependent on external imports and that allow us to achieve an energy autonomy through which to avoid the turbulence of raw materials prices. That is why it is important to implement immediately also what was discussed at the informal Council in Versailles last weekend, because as a country system we are so strongly committed to curbing the phenomenon of high prices, but we can only aim for ambitious results insofar as coordinated actions are taken at European level, that once adopted quickly can ensure that the clamp that our entrepreneur refers to does not compromise the holding of Italian companies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u32	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to join the majority rapporteurs in thanking the Commission for its work, which has certainly been carried out in an orderly manner, although very compressed in relation to the times, for the continuous majority meetings in order to try to find an overall balance in some way with the maxi amendment that is coming to this House today. As I said yesterday, when I spoke as a minority rapporteur, however, we denounce and continue to strongly denounce this sort of change of pace that has occurred in this legislature and that has no precedent that is the alternating monocameralism that has actually modified the Constitution, so we have moved from a perfect bicameralism to an imperfect bicameralism. On this we will not make discounts, because it is not possible to continue in this direction, with this protagonism of the government that is unprecedented in the country. It is indeed a very embarrassing situation for an advanced democracy such as that of our country. To come to the subject on the agenda, I would also like to say to the rapporteurs that this decree is passed, yes, but not because of the events linked to the war that is somehow at the door of our Europe, because the problem is also a precedent, because already on 27 January, when it was approved by the Council of Ministers, this decree was completely inadequate. I spoke about this yesterday, by chaosing a series of numbers referring to all the sectors concerned, who already at that time had no additional resources to deal with the dramatic situation that they were experiencing because of the pandemic. As I said, we are in the presence of a decree-law that, instead of supporting the business world, is killing many sectors, in particular the building sector, inserting yet another anti-fraud correction that penalizes even the honest people, who in this last year have operated with honesty regarding this measure. I would like to take the example of another simple amendment, without any problem of cover, which provided for the move of at least three months of the deadline for single-family houses, from 30 June to 30 September, to allow progress to be made. Considering the fourteen changes made to this superbonus was the least that could be expected. Well, even on this amendment there was not the courage on the part of the Government and the majority to give an answer. On this we are absolutely not available and are not optimistic about the issues under consideration, since on the superbonus we all agree to have to curb the scams, but not as we wanted to do with this decree-law, because the Revenue Agency also confirmed that the scams, for this measure, affected only 3%. This fierceness, which led to about fourteen changes, appears completely inadequate and has rather fragile bases. So we hope that, at least in the final phase of this measure, we will allow ourselves to continue in an orderly way, so that until December 31, 2023 Italian families and companies can be allowed to give answers regarding the economic thrust that this decree can give us, for those numbers that I gave yesterday, when I explained what construction represents for our country system. We are in the presence of a decree-law that is largely insufficient. The outbreak of the war between Russia and Ukraine has made it completely useless and overcome by the events that have been there, but also by situations prior to the conflict that has been generated. For example, there is the question of expensive energy, which - I would like to remind you - was already present in the budget law, because we have tried to shift sums, even some of the sums that were expected to reduce taxes, which no one could verify, because of those eight billions planned for the Irpef scales nobody noticed. Without prejudice to the fact that we are always in favour of reducing taxes, we said that multiplier effects had to be created. There are 10 billion citizens' income (I want to remind you, because this year the Government of the best has put us even one billion euros more and we have gone from 9 to 10 billion), plus the eight billion of the reduction of taxes. We said to move them at least in part to create that multiplier effect on national gross domestic product in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent 80% of Italian companies and are the backbone of the country's economic system. To the dear energy has also been added an unjustified expensive fuels. Today we see that in neighbouring countries, as my colleague Mr Misiani mentioned, like neighbouring Slovenia, we have put a roof at the price of fuel: one litre of petrol costs EUR 1.50, while we have even reached almost EUR 2.50 and we do not understand why we do not do the same things that our neighbouring countries do. [[Applause]] So, there's a VAT extraject - I want to remind you - that we're cashing in and that extrajective can also be used to do this kind of operation, but there's no time. The time has expired, dear Undersecretary Sartore. I thank you for your helpfulness, but you cannot tell us that you have taken notes on certain issues, so you have rightly referred to some of the amendments, saying that we have adopted legal amendments in this case. Even in some cases he referred to authentic interpretations. That is true, but today we need more, today we are at war. Today Draghi told us - I want to quote what he said - that we went from a market economy to a war economy. But when you make these statements you also need consequent acts, so that you can give answers on these issues. So, if we do not start with this assumption and start making additional taxes on raw materials or fuels, as I said, sooner or later we will arrive at the absurdity that petrol in Italy will cost 2.5 euros and in neighbouring Slovenia it will cost 1.5 euros. I want to add something very clear. This is the time of decisions, it is the time of responsibility; it is not the time to invent, as you have done over the past few weeks, the reform of the land register (referred to in Article 6 of the law delegates for tax reform), which affects how much more valuable there is for the Italians: their home. As our national leader also said, you lie knowing you're lying. In fact, the additional tax on the house is there, because the rules that accompany Article 6 say it: we want to increase the extimes in order to tax and particularly hit the main house, in order to compensate for the taxes on labour. This is the rule set out in Article 6. Above all, you are dusting the ius soli, under the lie of the law on citizenship. These are the slaps in the face that the Italians do not want to take, they suffer. At this time, immigrants are coming to Europe and Italy, and we must be aware that we must welcome these people with open arms, who are fleeing from a real war, which is what Russia and Ukraine are now investing in. We here today must assume our responsibilities, but we need Europe's direct intervention, otherwise we cannot do it. You continue to say that there can be no talk of deviation, even that it is dangerous to do so, when, until six months ago, you have committed EUR 200 billion in budgetary deviation, committing our children and grandchildren for the next 50 years; today we must be careful to talk about deviation. However, we need Europe's intervention. If you do not want to talk about deviation, we are talking about safeguard clauses: we must prevent the stability pact from coming into force in Italy, because there are no conditions. We need a new recovery plan, a war recovery plan. Targeted measures are needed in respect of raw materials and bills; targeted aid is also needed at work to create that multiplier effect that drives the economy to start again. Having no more time, I am going to conclude, Mr President. We will be on the side of the Italians and not of the Dragon Government, because it disappointed us. We will certainly be on the side of the Italian people, hoping that President Draghi, together with the majority, will think of businesses, families and farmers. Today, in fact, families are afraid of receiving the electricity bill or going to the gas station to make a full of gasoline; that's exactly what we didn't want, that didn't serve this government. This, on the other hand, is what the government is doing. So we, for this reason and for many other reasons that I do not have time to explain, will not vote in favour and will vote against the question of confidence in this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u35	MANCA (PD). Mr President, the text of the decree-law on which the Government put the question of trust is inevitably dated: it must be read, yes, together with the decree-energy law, but both belong to another political phase, which we nevertheless have the duty to understand and read, through the new economic dynamics that are characterizing our country and that will inevitably characterize both the Document of economy and finance of early April, and, even more, the important work that the Government has started in the European dimension. The measure introduces a number of reforms aimed at ensuring the continuity of activities most penalised by pandemic restrictions. They are necessary, even if insufficient, to counter economic dynamics. They are a refreshment that we, through the enlargement of the Ateco codes, have increased for an additional 20 million euros also in the process of conversion of the decree itself. A further 10 million went to the earthquake areas to extend the IMU exemption for unused buildings. An important work has also been done in improving the legislative plan of the decree, from the extension of the terms for the communication of the sale of the credit or discount in invoice to the remittance in terms for the breaking-b and the balance removed. Important measures have been envisaged for the Unions, for the Municipalities, for the Regions in the flexibility of the use of leftovers; urgent measures for culture, from the emergency entertainment fund to cinema, audiovisual; important measures also for companies in the temporary suspension of the cost of tangible and intangible fixed assets; important measures to strengthen the action of the Confidences in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a measure designed in January to contain the effects of rising prices of major energy sources. Colleagues, we are talking about price increases which, unfortunately, are dragging inflation high, with the risk that the cost of the interests of our mortgages, of mortgages for families and businesses will also be high. 3% more inflation in October is a very sensitive and important signal that needs to be monitored. Of course, inflation takes away resources from households in the purchase of goods and services, thus holding back the rise of private consumption. Mr President, the unsustainable increase in energy costs and the contemporary brutal military invasion of Russia in Ukraine inevitably open up the need for a qualitative leap in the European dimension. We have to start here. This must be our fundamental awareness: Europe is the challenge. There is no room for ambiguity: either for a political, economic and social Europe capable of promoting new investments, or beyond, in nationalism, in states, in the barriers and in the borders that separate us. [[Applause]] I say this to my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy, respecting the legitimate prerogatives of the opposition, also recognizing to them a responsibility in the management of economic decrees in their conversion. Colleagues, out of the idea that this crisis can be resolved in the conflict between opposition and majority in this House or, worse still, within national borders. Both to help businesses and to support families and to influence diplomatic initiatives to put an end to this terrible war, a new political Europe from macro to micro is needed. It is essential to encourage the construction of a new political Europe; think that, also in order to extend the moratoria, we need new European rules to support the credit of Italian companies and families. [[Applause]] There is no room for ambiguity. Please leave the ambiguity of a supposed nationalism in contrast to a new political Europe, which must go beyond the purely important monetary union, starting more and more quickly, because time is precious, towards a common European policy, both in economic and social terms, and in tax terms. Nor can there be a common European defence in the absence of a common vision of the economic and social development of monetary union: all this is decisive. To the exorbitant costs of energy are added also those of the goods, of the non-energy commodities, from the metals to the clay, to the cereals, to the vegetable oils, in vertiginous increase because of the block of the productions and the extractions, both in Ukraine, but also because of the uncertainty that regards the supplyings from Russia. Well the energy dynamics that have been addressed here, but we don't have time. A storm is raging in our country over Italian businesses and families, which should not be underestimated. We need a government that intervenes promptly at this stage precisely in the European dimension. It is a crisis that needs to be addressed because we know that the first thing is to safeguard work. When profits are zeroed and productions stopped in order to safeguard the capital and investment of a company - as is happening in the ceramic sector and in energy-intensive sectors - if we do not act quickly, not only are new social shock absorbers needed to protect social cohesion, guarantee an income and avoid conflicts, but also in 2023 there is a risk that that market will fail, that there are other interlocutors who assume a leading role in the world on fundamental industrial sectors for the country. A closed ceramic does not only need new shock absorbers; it needs to understand immediately when we will be in a position to put a roof to energy, to restart, because that market risks being replaced by other companies. In 2023 we could find ourselves with significant problems on the production chains of manufacturing (also in our country), automotive, sectors and fundamental supply chains, which immediately need new European policies capable of representing an idea of hope and future growth. I'm done, ma'am. The Democratic Party Group, with today's vote, not only reaffirms its confidence in the Government, but also expresses a vote to support and stimulate the Government in the European dimension. I say this very clearly, quoting David Sassoli, who often said that it was nice to feel Italian without a nationalist spirit, which is what makes you separate and divided from others. Europe, at the end of the yards, will be our cities and only then will we know where to take the world to help the Italian families and companies grow. This vision is still the vision that must accompany the Italian Government in these hours in the difficult European challenge, to build economic spaces without further debt to young people and Italian families and to help families and businesses in this difficult transition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u38	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Madam President, I would like to say straight away that the LEU-Ecosolidali Group will vote in favour of confidence. Since we have a few minutes, this is or was the commitment in the explanations of vote. I agree with the words of Undersecretary Sartore, Undersecretary Bini and the rapporteurs, who have rightly stressed the considerable changes we have made to the measure in the Commission. Of course, the fact remains that this decree-law - as many have stressed - is born in a profoundly different phase, but something we have done, positive and important. Now I want to focus on one point, which concerns what we have to do. We have tabled an important and challenging agenda. I would like to stress that we are facing a much more significant crisis than the Covid crisis. When we talk about this, we talk about companies, we talk about today's problems, which are the increases in raw materials and bills, in the primary sector as well as in manufacturing, as in services. But we are also talking about a great challenge: we are talking about the fact that the consequences of this crisis can result in a loss of market by those companies that are more export-oriented and of higher quality for our country. When we say this, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget - I must say that I hear this point very carefully - that the issue is linked intrinsically to an increase in inequality, which in this country is gradually hitting the middle class. It is a social order that endangers the quality of the social coexistence of this country. I don't feel that much, I have to say. I have little awareness of this problem, namely that inequality among our citizens is growing increasingly unbearable. All measures, starting with those in support of the necessary and indispensable enterprises, must also pay the utmost attention to equal and redistributive processes, because - otherwise - we risk having two countries. In Italy the possibility of coexistence of two countries is not there. Are we fully aware of this? Let's think about it. I'm going to move on to the second point. My colleagues who have said that are right. Finally, my colleague Misses: the fundamental problem is a further step for Europe. It is in fact not conceivable, nor imaginable that our country, for the conditions of debt and for how we have gone through the crisis Covid, can deal alone with the issues that we face, beginning with the roof of the price of gas. I expect, however, that in the next measure of the Government there will be a precise intervention regarding the denunciation of Ministers on speculations on fuel costs. A signal has to be given. I am also thinking of the use of extra-tragettito VAT or the intervention on extra-profit. Fortunately, Versailles has been talking about this and that has cleared our debate. You can't keep thinking about the emergency. It may seem paradoxical, but we must be able to make progress in Europe on the political framework; European defence and foreign policy are fine, but a strategic leap of Europe is needed. We will not face this economy of war - as has been said - except through what are called eurobonds, new recovery and the possibility of making debt protected by the ECB (and, therefore, by the continuation of quantitative easing) and in the long term that allows us to support the transformation. That is the first point. Without Europe - nationalists, sovereignists - Italy, as it has already happened with Covid, cannot go anywhere. As for the strategy, here I feel uncertainties that are not present in other European countries. Look at what Germany does. It is now that we must reason and accelerate on the ecological transition and not stop, because the future is linked not only to the issue of environmental pollution, which is also the general theme, but also to the productive capacity of our country. Either we make a technological leap into innovation, or our country doesn't have a perspective. Let me turn to the third point. We need to redistribute resources and invest in welfare. I have a lot of concerns. For example, we need to make health, welfare and local public transport reforms now. However, if the plant is that of yesterday, we will not go anywhere; and I say this also in connection with the debate on competition, which we will be doing in the next few days. If we think that we are going through this crisis to return to the way we were before and with the policies of before, we make a huge mistake and we will not bring our country up to the challenge. What is industrial policy? Some of my colleagues said we need to review the recovery. I do not exclude this possibility, but in a key: as Minister Giorgetti said, we must finally make an industrial policy that this country does not have. In a country where companies have little capitalization, industrial policy means public instruments that support companies not in rain, but in transformation projects with respect to the goals we have. That is the challenge, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk to each other more than ever. It would be ridiculous to continue to argue about where we invest 10 million euros if then those who have a rented house have to pay their bills and have a worker's salary risk not eating. This awareness must begin to have it to the full. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u41	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have heard a lot of concerned speeches which obviously look at the general situation. I would say that today - as they have already taken out of this House - is the special day: it is 17 March, the day when the Unity of Italy was made. I think it is right to remember that today is the Day of National Unity, Flag and Constitution. [[Applause]] At that time the capital was still in Turin and the law was of the Kingdom of Sardinia. I believe that remembering this anniversary can also give us an active and active spirit as far as it has to be done. It is the constructive spirit that I have found in our rapporteur, Mr Damiani, rapporteur for Forza Italia, that I would like to thank together with the members of the Budget Commission. It is the constructive spirit that has moved the whole Group both in the presentation of the amendments and in the coordination, as well as in the management work carried out by President Bernini, with the specific desire to be aware that, although it was a limited measure, also and above all from the point of view of resources, it was necessary to work on that in order to address as much as possible the issues. And we have worked also knowing that it is a piece, and not only because it is a dated measure but also because in the meantime two other decrees-laws have been added. I have heard a lot about energy, but we know very well that the measure on energy, with its resources, is being examined by the House. We have worked with the resources derived from the refreshments - as you will all remember - that have not been used. [[Applause]] It is therefore not a decree-law supports as it could have been that of 10-20 billion: it is a decree-supports targeted. What has been done thanks to the work of Forza Italia and the rapporteur? In the meantime, the question of scraping-b and the balance has rightly been highlighted and deleted. [[Applause]] A number of people needed a shift; it has always been strongly requested by the Group president in a particular way, and we have succeeded in achieving this objective. Then there are the Horeca chains that at first I didn't even know exactly what they could identify. They are, on the contrary, very important, because they concern everything between the hotel, the restaurant and the [[Catering. (Applause)]] ; sectors that have been forgotten over the years of pandemics. These are, however, jobs, public and private employees. Then there is another fact that was pointed out yesterday by Senator Perosino, but that I would like to remind you: we have unlocked the issue of municipal secretaries, which is fundamental for the administration of municipalities. [[Applause]] The municipalities need to move forward, personal. Who is the staff par excellence of the Municipality small and medium. He's the city secretary. Where does the mayor go every morning to see if he can do an act or not? He goes to the city secretary. The legislation introduced, which finally allows the recruitment of municipal secretaries, has already been accepted by our municipalities with heartfelt thanks, because it has been tried for a long time. And the same thing happened with the unblocking of the administrative surpluses, also with reference to the aid that was implemented. Of course - as I said at the beginning - we are aware that we did not get everything. Of course. Just get out of the house that there is a new problem in the situation we live in. However, the method described by our rapporteur, and which the Commission wanted to direct, namely that of the agenda on which these elements are undertaken as a commitment, is certainly important: the moratorium on loans, an issue on which the Government has committed itself; the monitoring of the superbonus for single-family houses; the issue of medical family members. These are all points which, in a framework of loyal cooperation between the Commission, Parliament and the Government, we know are not provided for. We know that, in the course of the urgent decree that will be taken, the answers to these points will be found. I conclude by saying that Forza Italia voted in favour, thanking the work done by the Undersecretaries as well as by the rapporteur, because often the skills and possibilities to solve problems walk on people's legs. I think the legs have run a lot in this case. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u44	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the measure under consideration by the Government that it calls for confidence certainly contains measures that are acceptable and, therefore, it will have the vote of confidence of the League. The work in the Commission to improve the measure certainly took place with the commitment of all, all the political forces and the Government. Everyone basically did their part. Overall, the judgment can only be positive. Are the measurements right? That is the question we have to ask ourselves when we vote on a measure. The answer is that yes, they are useful, because they support many groups affected by the pandemic and the economic crisis. However, there is another question that we have to ask ourselves and that we have a duty to ask ourselves: are these measures sufficient? Unfortunately, the answer is that they are not. The next decree-law supports will also contribute, but the moment we are living requires more effective responses from the Government. The energy and fuel increases; the difficulty of finding raw materials for industry, to which we are adding or could add difficulties in supplying cereals, feed and fertilizers, require extraordinary action. [[Applause]] The government's response seems slow. In the Budget Committee we have all felt a strange feeling, that we are examining a fair, useful measure, but absolutely out of the reality that the country is living today. We are deeply concerned because steel mills, paper mills and other production activities of the big industry are suspending production: it has never happened in the history of our country. [[Applause]] It is a very serious damage to the entire manufacturing chain. The costs in agriculture are now out of control; I think - for example - to agricultural gas oil; in the road haulage, for the increase of fuels, one risks the blockade of the country. The supply of industry and large-scale distribution is at risk of being put at risk by a blockade which must be avoided. We all know that inflation is increasing considerably and the purchasing power of households is in danger of being irreparablely compromised. These are the damages and these are the risks. The government must therefore act now, immediately, more quickly - every day of waiting is a lost day - and must do so with important and decisive measures. The next decree-energy law, what we expect to be launched this weekend, cannot be expected, timid or partial; it must be courageous and decisive. On the increase of fuels, the League was the first political force to call for action on excise duties, VAT and extra-trajectives, but we want an effective measure: a reduction of 15 cents is not an adequate response. [[Applause]] Interventions must be effective. Citizens, those who work and create jobs, are no longer content with symbolic interventions, are no longer content with our good will, nor are they satisfied with our greatest commitment. They want, they want concrete results. The crisis in industry, the economic sectors and the agricultural sector is following and will unfortunately follow the social crisis, of families, and not only of the groups closest to the poverty line, but also of the middle class. Who today can afford to live dignifiedly with increases in gas, electricity and fuel, which sections of the population? Perhaps for the first time only medium-high incomes, a minority of our population, can do so. The installment of bills and taxes is not enough, it is not necessary, it postpones the problems and does not solve them; it makes the ascent to get out even more impervious. We demand more from this government, be it clear. We're in a dramatic, emerging phase. As the President-in-Office of the Council Draghi said, we are moving from a market economy to a war economy, so all the old rules (budget balance, constraints, restrictions, limitations) are no longer current. The government, with President Draghi, must obtain significant derogations at European level and far more important than what we are proposing to the country. The League wants to help avoid a scenario that really risks being dramatic. He wants to do so by supporting this Government and will certainly do so by voting on the measure under consideration. Look, however, that the abyss is near, it is near, it is imminent. This can be a decisive week. We have high expectations from the energy decree, but we also have high expectations from the decree that will change the rules regarding the containment of the pandemic and the rules that we have set to limit the severity of the situation. We say and ask for enough of the rules that have led to the green pass, the super green pass and the impossibility for workers over 50 to go to their jobs. This is also an answer the country expects. We have taken action in emergency situations. The emergency today is less: we must take note of it and give new freedom to the country and to the citizens who claim these results. We will support the government, but ultimately we ask for more speed, more awareness, more courage and more determination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u47	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on 3 February last, at the joint session of the Chamber and Senate, we had several times and long applauded President Mattarella, when he recalled the importance of Parliament and the desired return of its centrality in legislative activity and political direction to the Government. Well, the conversion process of this decree-law shows that the President of the Republic's wish has not yet come true. Very important questions, which the Movimento 5 Stars and other political forces had raised through the amending activity, have not changed into legislative changes due to the lack of views of Ministries or opposing opinions, which have sometimes appeared incomprehensible or without logic, in our opinion. Frankly, this is no longer acceptable and bearable, and I hope this is really the last time that this happens in the striking terms that we have seen these days. I'm taking the superbonus example. The government, intervening three times in a few weeks, for the shareable purpose of limiting fraud on some building bonuses - but they were not the super bonuses, as I will remember from here shortly - has in fact triggered a halt of the works, of the projects in itinere and of the cessions of the tax credits, especially regarding the interventions on the single family houses. [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars had strongly requested that the deadline for 30 percent of the work to be carried out, set at 30 June, also for single-family homes, be extended to 30 September. We were told that this extension would expand the audience of beneficiaries and cost hundreds of millions. This is difficult to believe, given that the situation of uncertainty about the single family, the difficulty of finding materials and also finding businesses and professionals available have discouraged many citizens from starting the process. Therefore, the audience of potential beneficiaries may be at most equal, certainly not higher, than the one assumed in the budget law last December. Consider also the constraints on the transfer of credits, which the Government had placed and on which it had to return abruptly but partially back, admitting, in fact, the error. It is not, however, the only gross mistake that has been made and which I want to highlight. We have heard the President of the Council and the Minister of Economy talk about colossal scams on the superbonus, then saves, following the request of the Movimento 5 Stars to make public the data of the Revenue Agency, the abrupt reverse of the Minister Franco. The Minister had to admit that only 3% of the total of all alleged frauds of all building bonuses were attributable to the superbonus and only 1% of the total amounts of works financed by superbonus were deemed to be the subject of fraud. I repeat: 1% and 3% are percentages of fraud, alleged fraud or errors that are almost physiological. These percentages testify that the law was well written and that the mechanism of controls and acquittals worked well. [[Applause]] These control mechanisms work so well that they have been extended to other building bonuses, and of this we of the Movimento 5 Stars are extremely satisfied. So, kind members of the government, to find the scams of the century just look elsewhere. It is enough to concentrate, for example, on the data of tax evasion which subtracts from the community, to all of us, almost 100 billion per year. [[Applause]] , which means less schools, less productive investment, less services to the community, especially to the most fragile, less innovation and less job creation, less development and well-being for all. In order to find other colossal scams - I would like to quote Mr Cingolani's words - just look at what is happening on energy products, at the unjustified explosion of petrol, gas and electricity prices, which is literally bringing families and businesses to their knees. [[Applause.]] Just look at what some hedge funds are doing about the crazy gas price speculations on the Amsterdam TTF stock exchange. What still has to happen for the government to intervene urgently and forcefully on the issue of energy prices, given the dramatic situation in which millions of Italians live? What has yet to happen in order to approve a budgetary deviation from the entire productive sectors that are on the verge of closure due to the increase in the cost of energy and all that follows from the war that unfortunately exists in Ukraine? In 2020 we approved deviations of 130 billion, at an equally dramatic time for the country and for the whole world. And the results have given us reason in terms of job preservation, social resilience, recovery of GDP in the following year, which set a record: it has reached 6.6 percent, and I want to point that out. There is a good debt as a bad debt. When intelligent expansive policies are made, such as those put in place by the Government Count 2, with the fundamental impulse of the Movimento 5 Stars - policies that create widespread wealth - a service is given to the country, to the citizens, to those who work and produce. In this decree-law we were able to bring home the reopening of the terms for the scrap-b, which many wished, but at the same time we no longer believe that a break-up-cc of the debitory folders for the years 2018-2020, which - I emphasize with force - would not be a pardon, because taxpayers would pay taxes up to the last cent [[Applause]] Instead, it would be a very important help to honest citizens and businesses, who have declared their income but have not paid their taxes due to economic difficulties that we have been carrying for years and that make us the only country in Europe not to have returned to the levels of GDP of 2008, i.e. when the subprime mortgage crisis broke out. Many other amendments and amendments proposed by the 5 Star Movement during the examination of the Decree-Law have not been taken into account, and I am referring, as an example, to the remodulation of sanctions for professionals, increasing them by three times in serious cases and decreasing them in very minor cases. I am referring to the cedibility of the tax credits on building bonuses, which provided for a sure mechanism that would certify its existence without a shadow of doubt and thus ensure its multiple cedibility, even wider than it is now, especially in order not to decrease its commercial value. In fact, as is easily understandable, the narrowing of the number of possible assignments of the credits decreases the value of it, thus constituting an advantage for the financial intermediaries and a great damage to the citizens and enterprises. I am also referring to the issues of the qualification of companies, professional policies, the DURC-DURF compensation or - I change the subject - the issue of non-profit and the sensitivity towards the social world, which must not be influenced by neoliberal models. These are all aspects on which it has not been possible to intervene for the reasons mentioned above, but at the same time they are all issues - I would like to make it quite clear - that we will shortly propose again in the next decrees which the current emergency makes necessary. [[Applause]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by reaffirming that on this process of conversion we have reached a point of no return. We are, yes, aware that the moment is very difficult for Italy and for the whole world, we feel on our shoulders the responsibility and we behave accordingly, so I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. But I tell the government that continuing to pull the rope is no use to anyone: it is no use to the country, it is no use to those in difficulty and it is no use to those who do business. [[Applause]] Instead, we need courage, ideas, the desire to change things in the country and in Europe and, urgently, an energy recovery fund, of which Italy must be the leading nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u49	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u50	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, representatives of the Government, today for the first time I will not vote for confidence in this measure and the reason is methodical and not merit. I fully understand the efforts that have been made to mitigate the current consequences of the pandemic and the great work done by the Budget Commission, with its President in mind, but I cannot accept that bureaucrats without being depositaries of popular representation should replace it and mortify Parliament. I have been in favour, however modestly, of this heterogeneous Government, because the serious moment that faced our country required it, but if, in addition to voting for the confidence on the measures presented by the Executive because urgent and necessary, our function must be debased by the capotic positions of people who should be at the service of politics to help it better represent the general interests, while playing a separate game, then the situation starts not to be well with me anymore. In order to avoid shadowy areas or misunderstandings, I expressly say that I am referring to the legislative office of the Ministry of Transport, which for a year has continued to give an unsurpassable opinion against an amendment without expense, consistent with the previous measures, absent from the other Ministries and passed to the scrutiny of the Budget Commission, in which I violate the principle of loyal cooperation with Parliament. In fact, the undersigned had first spoken with the head of the office in question and, subsequently, with a collaborator, asking to be contacted, if the technical report provided had not overcome the problems they had raised, all without any result and also in violation of the Government itself, which should have served it, since this amendment presented exactly an agenda approved without conditions by the Government in a previous measure. I realize that my failure to take part in the vote on this measure is of little significance, but I hope that the Minister for relations with Parliament will take care of this situation which has become unbearable and unsustainable and that Members of Parliament will take up their role with pride. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u51	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 4 of 27 January 2022 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber and in the vicinity of access to the Presidency bench. The senators for trust will answer yes, the opposing senators will answer no. Senators who intend to stick will express themselves accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Nencini is drawn by lot). Colleagues, since the Conference of Group Presidents has been convened, the Presidency will anticipate the vote of the members of the Conference. Other requests were made by the Groups. Therefore, we will begin with those who will be interested in the Conference of Leaders and later with the name of Senator Nencini just extracted. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, is appealing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, a kindness: if you please check the panel where the names of those who have to go to vote appear, you avoid that there is assembly inside the hemicycle and you expect your turn. I also note that the senators who made the request to vote first were in the order of forty. So, even out of respect for colleagues who are waiting for their turn, we will try to put them in, compatible with the possibilities. Therefore, I repeat, if kindly those who are not called are removed from the hemicycle and respect the indications that have been given, we can move on with the call. [[Applause]] I would remind the House that the normal procedure for voting on the matter of trust has been restored, so we will go under the Presidency. (In the course of the voting operations the Presidency takes over - at 2.50 p.m.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 4 of 27 January 2022 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 225 Senators voting 224 Majority 113 Favorable 191 Contrari 33]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 4 are therefore excluded. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 3.28 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u52	I inform the Assembly that on Tuesday 22 March, at 11 a.m., an informal videoconference meeting will take place in the Chamber of Montecitorio with the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, in the presence of MPs and senators. There is no provision for Members to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u55	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to an issue which concerns the tried and tested system of revolving doors, i.e. revolving doors, particularly between the public and the private, and vice versa. Senior executives of the public administration, ministries, former ministers and directors-general, after completing their mandate and taking care of credit institutions that had the task of overseeing, became immediately after consultants, vice-presidents and even presidents of large Italian and foreign business banks. To try to mitigate this legal practice - but immoral for me - I had presented a bill in early November, from the title "Provisions on limits to the assumption of office with the supervised entities," aimed at avoiding the sudden transition from public office to private companies, limiting cumulation of duties and jobs: never discussed. Today I'm talking about a couple of cases: Filippo Arena, until December 30, 2021 Secretary General of the Antitrust and State attorney, went to the law firm Gatti Pavesi Bianchi Ludovici as a partner responsible for the department of public law of the economy. In the course of his professional activity he would have represented the Italian State before the European Court of Justice in applications for preliminary rulings and infringement procedures, using one of these revolving doors: to be checked. The same goes for Walter Caizzone, even if in this case it is the reverse path: before going to the Antitrust he worked for Confcommercio, in the role of representative of the commerce sector, companies for Italy and, at the time when Caizzone worked there, he carried out initiatives with Federconsumeri. The activity carried out by Caizzone, the relationships and the knowledge gained by him during his working relationship with Confcommercio can only raise doubts about the position of impartiality that he would be called to observe in the performance of his duties. This is called pantouflage: it happens when a public employee comes to work for a private subject. The Italian law adversely evaluates the civil servants who in the last three years of service have exercised authority or negotiating power on behalf of the public administrations and who then pass in the private ones controlled by those agencies and vice versa. And yet, these things happen anyway. The events of Arena and Caizzone are proof of this. I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is time to say enough to the revolving door system, because the democracy for which we tear our clothes is not only to have the right to vote, but also to allow citizens to be treated in the same way and not, as in this case, to have some who have privileges over others.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u58	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to announce that we have tabled a motion, thanks to the entire Movimento 5 Star Group and also to the colleagues in the House Group who have helped us with the expensive electricity bills. Yesterday, during the information of the minister Cingolani, we have acclaimed that the price of the bills is not referring to the price that the supplier pays to buy the gas that then is sold to the users, but it is based on a price stipulated in Holland in a platform that is called TTF and is the result of speculation, of spot prices, of conditionings from the war and the pandemic, therefore a price that has nothing to do with that paid by the suppliers. Yesterday the Istat also acclaimed and then declared that the spot price is at least three times as much that of the import, that is the one paid by our suppliers and therefore we ask a very simple thing: the ARERA must decide once and for all to release the price that we pay in bill from the TTF price of the Dutch quotations instead referring to the one really paid by our suppliers. It is a very simple thing that can be useful to lower the cost of bills without having to intervene by giving money to the Italians to pay the same bills. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u61	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my firm opinion that Minister Franceschini should resign. I do not say this in a spirit of opposition, but because on February 23 a very authoritative body of the State, the Court of Auditors, declared out of law - and not only metaphorically - the Dicastery that the careless President Draghi called him to drive for the third time. I'll explain. The Vittoriano and Palazzo Venezia are gathered in a single Institute to which the Ministry of Culture has granted special autonomy; in December 2021 the general director of that museum Edith Gabrielli has concluded an agreement with the company in house of the Ministry of Culture to obtain 16 units of technical and administrative personnel not found through question. Without using the instrument of command in the mobility between public administrations, the Ministry addressed itself directly to ALES SpA and that it presented its offer not subject to the assessment of adequacy imposed by the code of public contracts. You have heard well: the in-house companies of the other Ministries cannot do so, it would trigger the charge of violation of Articles 3 and 41 of the Constitution. Evidently the law is the same for all, but some are more equal than others. Not enough: each of the 16 ALES workers will cost on average to the Ministry of Culture (culture with the tiny c, I remind you, for a choice that at this point was premonitrix) over 66,000 euros per year, while ministerial employees with similar roles come to cost a maximum of 35,000 euros. In other words, the Ministry of Culture, which owns 100 percent of ALES, lends to itself workers who cost him twice as much as internal employees or more but who, to read their CUDs, earn less than colleagues within the public administration, and that the ALES give those a mere technical-administrative and accounting support of a temporary and exceptional nature, as the norm wants, is a fairy tale. Pulcinella's secret is that the tasks of ALES are ordinary and provide everything for the tasks of civil servants, but without signing. For this reason, the Court of Auditors also fears an attack on Article 97 of the Constitution, which makes access to public administration conditional on public competition and expressly speaks of an unacceptable system of favour with regard to the relationship between the Ministry of Franceschini and ALES. Competitions are not made of them, they are very slow and the requirements are skilfully underestimated. I conclude, President, by repeating the request to Minister Franceschini to return the mandate, because his is the political responsibility for what happens and expressing solidarity to the three workers of Gebart SpA that from 26 April 2021, with the reopening to the public of Palazzo Venezia, instead of taking up the ticket service, I am at home in a zero-hour integration fund without social clause, without knowing why in their place there are three visitors - they are not offended, because I don't have it with them - out of the fatal eggs of ALES SpA. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u62	Senator Corrado, of course, you are well aware that you have, as a Member of Parliament, all the instruments, such as questions and so on.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-415.ana.u64	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.41 a.m.
