ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2595 and 2119. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and that the general discussion and examination of the articles of draft law No 2595, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, took place. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u5	Mr President, on 3 February last, the Chambers, meeting in a joint sitting, responded with a long and heartfelt applause to the President of the Republic's call for the rapid approval of the reform of the judiciary and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Today we are here to maintain that commitment and transform into state law a proposal that comes from afar and that has been built with the contribution of many. This is an important step in the history of our country, in which justice has been an area of conflict for too long. This passage was preceded by a long work, sometimes not simple, made possible by the commitment of many. Let me remind you and thank all those who have allowed us to reach this final vote. A draft reform law had already been drawn up by the previous Government and the amendments adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 February were attached to that text, also on the basis of the valuable proposals of the committee of experts chaired by Professor Luciani. There has been an intense confrontation with all the political forces of the majority, in order to reach a widely shared structure, in which each political force can recognize its contribution. Each has brought his own contribution, both by supporting his own initiatives with strong conviction, and by leaving room for the voice of the other majority forces. I thank each political force for this constructive commitment and for this willingness. I would like to thank the Minister for his relations with Parliament D'Incà, who has spent a great deal to enable us to reach this final vote. No less decisive was the convinced and determined contribution of the undersecretaries Sisto and Macina and the technical one of the offices of the Ministry of Justice, whose professional support, carried out with dedication and far from the spotlight, is simply essential. The adoption of this law - the third major pillar of the reforms of justice, aimed at strengthening the confidence of citizens in the administration of justice - will allow the imminent renewal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to take place with new rules, so that this institution, constitutional garrison and indispensable of the principles of autonomy and independence of the judicial order, can (to take up just the words of President Mattarella) fully carry out its own function, enhancing the undisputed high professionalism on which the judiciary can count. A heartfelt thanks to all of you and to each one of you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, thanks usually do not reopen the debate. However, I see that President Calderoli has read in the Minister's words an intervention that allows the reopening of the debate, not having, in his opinion, limited only to a formal thanks (though there has been, President Calderoli). If anyone wants to speak, I believe that there is no objection, but I would urge them not to reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u9	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have listened to the Minister's words. However, we cannot fail to point out to the House that the League had put forward some proposals in the course of its work in the Commission, which we believe were essential. What I said yesterday I repeat today: the reform does not fully satisfy us. It is a first timid step, much more could be done and, in our opinion, there were also times to do much more. In particular, I am referring to an amendment which has a very important character, namely the one with which we proposed that Parliament and not the Minister's secretariat should draw up the electoral tables for the election of the MSC. At the time when we delegate to the Ministry the drafting of the tables, we dedicate ourselves to those same out-of-role magistrates whose function has been largely called into question in this House the determination of the electoral districts that will very much then be able to determine for the purposes of election to the MSM. You then understand, Madam Minister, that it would actually save Parliament time, because now it will have to be your secretariat that compiles the electoral tables, defines the electoral districts, and you will not be able to vote for the new MSC until those tables are made. At this point it was appropriate to give back to Parliament sovereignty also over the determination of the electoral districts, because the times would be essentially the same, but, in our opinion, we would have made a gesture to give back to Parliament, that is to say to popular sovereignty, a very delicate aspect in relation to the life of the judiciary. I wanted to make this example because time is short, even if there would be other aspects. Too bad. That's what happened. I think that the real reform should take place in 2023, when the centre-right wins the elections. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u10	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u13	LANNUTTI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, Mrs Minister, today I am reading a title: 'Reform'? No, disasters. Even stronger currents and less autonomous pm. In this regard, I would like to start with Mrs Cartabia's statement, taken up months ago by agencies and newspapers. The Minister put the representatives of the majority against the wall, recalling that by the end of 2021 delegated laws for the reform of the civil and criminal process and the CSM had to be approved. The European Commission, it recalled, imposed certain conditions on the Italian Government. With regard to justice, the objectives are clear: in five years we have to reduce the time of civil judgments by 40% and the time of criminal judgments by 25%. These are really ambitious goals. No reforms, no money from Europe, he said. The usual shredded and tired chorus. Europe is asking us to do that. But where is this Europe taking us? Europe is bringing us into one of the most serious recessions in history, accompanied by a serious crisis of economic policy, with the perfect storm pandemic, war and the notorious sanctions to the Russians, which are actually paid by Italian citizens, families and companies, with more expensive mortgages, bills of light and tripled gas, prices of fuel increased. Added to this are the foolish, sudden and totally wrong decisions of the Central Bank of the era of Christine Lagarde, who already on March 16, 2020, as the new President of the ECB, in the most disastrous press conferences said: We're not here to close the spreads. There are other tools and actors to deal with these issues, except then correct the next day. Days ago, on 12 June, he repeated the very serious mistake, making the foolish decision, after eleven years of expansionary monetary policy, to increase the rates from next July, after having preached the temporaryity of inflation, today to 7%, that erodes the purchasing power of the families, causing a disaster on the European and Italian stock markets, with the spread jumped to 250 basis points, that - I want to remember - with the previous Government was to 100, with the titles of the gazzettieri of Draghi, the same of the lists of proscription drawn up by the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), that they swore would be halved to 50 points with the Government of the best. "Spread, Btp, Bund: because (with Dragons) it can go down to 50 points" is the title of an article of "Corriere della sera" of February 15, 2021. In the face of this disaster of the technocracy, to which legitimately elected governments have delegated enormous powers, without responsibilities and democratic controls, with the axis of power shifted from peoples and governments to finance, I recall the title of a volume by William Easterly, the tyranny of experts, Madam Minister, the plastic representation of a severe criticism to economists enslaved to the power of the manutengols, those technocrats and optimized who govern this country through a soft coup, with high institutional complicity and with the harmful consequences of their approaches to the ordered economic development of a great nation like Italy, unfortunately enslaved to that fetish of neoliberalism and globalism that replaced the States with treaties, justice with arbitration. The reform is a further demonstration of a dangerous desire for revenge against the judiciary, the signal of a real settlement of accounts, as the advisor to the CSM Nino Di Matteo, who has never spared criticism of this reform, coming to define it as dangerous. The election of the members of the MSC, according to the proposal, will take place with a new system, mixed majority and proportional and rather complex, that instead of curbing clientele, batching of offices, career advances linked to political membership, increases them, with the punitive aggregation for those magistrates who intend to apply and that at the time of acceptance of the candidacy must be on leave without cheques (comma 4) and of which paragraph 5 of Article 12 excludes eligibility as national and European Parliamentary and other posts. Ferdinando Imposimato, a great magistrate unfortunately disappeared, whose friendship I was honored, having spent the last three years of his life together, often repeated to me: the currents are cancer, the metastasis of the judiciary. Overtaking scandals, clientele, cliques of power that ruled the judiciary, with the direct complicity of those who must act as guarantors of the Constitution, well described in many publications. But what does this reform foresee to change the current method, to put merit beyond belongings at the centre? There was the possibility of pure draw, with the division of Italy by macro-areas, as if they were European elections, respecting the proportions, 80 percent judges, 20 percent prosecutors, respecting the proportions of first degree, second degree and cassation, and then draw. Those who are able to write a sentence will surely be able to evaluate and write an opinion for a prosecutor or any president of a section or president of a court, said Nicola Gratteri, but this would have taken power from that current system that fueled the metastasis of the judiciary, that is a system of protection for its adepts even if they had to apply the law for enemies, interpret it for friends and associates, as documented by the serious everyday phenomena of malajustice. Finally, we could not miss the icing on the cake, that is that the magistrates are subjected to the evaluation of lawyers, that is the counterpart that represents in the courtroom those who are accused by the same magistrates. Another criterion is the number of judgments, but then there is another point that risks undermining forever the principle of separation between executive and judicial power, on which the legal and political culture of Western Europe has been based for three centuries. According to the reform, Parliament will be the one to tell the chief prosecutors what crime they must pursue most urgently and the Minister of Justice will have a say in the organisation of the public prosecutor's work. Already the reform of justice risks sending dozens of trials to the ground: simple sexual violence, environmental crimes, deaths at work, victims of road accidents and manslaughter could remain unpunished forever. The war of the currents continues to mark the most important choices of the CSM, as evidenced by the anomalies that occurred in the last elections of the National Prosecutor anti-Mafia, that have seen the rejection of Nicola Gratteri, one of the great Italian magistrates. Madam Minister, this reform is the further tombstone on justice, perpetrating that prevalence of the economic interests of banks, finance and politics on the law already theorized and practiced by the former chief prosecutor of Milan Bruti Liberati on the Expo scandal or his successor Francesco Greco on the very serious crac MPS, overwhelmed in a black hole of 65.7 billion euros burned since 2008. Madam Minister, it is a justice to measure of powerful, bullying, economic powers, mafia-massories, chores and consorts; a justice penalising for the citizens vexed and anguished by the criminal justice; a further shame of the Government of the best to the detriment of the sovereign people. For these reasons, I announce the vote against the CAL Group (Constitution, Environment, Work)-Alternative-PC-IDV, which refers to the values of the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u14	Senator Lannotti, I listened carefully to your speech. I hope it's not an ultroneo lawyer comment. Lawyers aren't exactly the judge's counterpart. I beg your pardon for this comment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u17	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Madam Minister for Justice, we will not vote for your reform. A reform of justice and the judiciary serves, but its reform serves less than we hoped. It does not touch the power of the currents; it does not touch the responsibility of the magistrates, so those who make mistakes often do not pay; above all - let me say it for the esteem that, as you know, I have towards you - leaves a little bitter in the mouth for the way in which she reached the finish line. Colleagues, the separation of powers, the cornerstone of liberal democracy, is made not only with the political power that respects the limits of the judicial power (sacrosanct), but also avoiding that the judicial power defines the rules and norms through an incredible and massive presence of magistrates in the technical offices of the Ministries who make and undo the laws. This is not the responsibility of Minister Cartabia, because this is something we have been carrying for years, but this reform does not change anything in this area. So you vote against? No, we abstain because the reform does not harm, unlike other choices of the past (it is a more useless reform than harmful), and also because we are aware that the advent of the authoritative minister Cartabia has brought the Government a step forward in the management of justice than in recent years. Mr President, I cannot forget that for three years the Minister of Justice has argued - and I quote - that the innocent do not go to prison. It is good to remind former Minister Bonafede that in the last thirty years, three innocent people have been imprisoned every day. The website www.errogiudiziari.com carries out a public service of extraordinary effectiveness on this. Besides, it's not true that he doesn't pay anyone. They do not pay the magistrates who make mistakes, but - let us say this here, because the citizens know this because they have passed there - they pay the State. Every year, more or less, we pay between 25 and 30 million euros for damages, which do not compensate for the pain of those who are imprisoned unjustly, but who are paid with the taxpayer's taxes. The magistrate doesn't pay, the taxpayer does. This was not caught by that minister, who then said that the innocent did not go to prison, who said even worse things about the relationship between guaranteeing and justiceism and did even worse things about the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP). The fundamental point is that this reform does not do any harm, but it is not that step forward that was needed. Do we really think that justice is the main problem in the country? The answer is clear: let us open this morning's newspapers and all of us have our hearts in Kiev, indeed in that train, in which our President-in-Office of the Council, who deserves heartfelt and sincere thanks. [[Applause]] , together with French President Macron and German Chancellor Scholz, gave a fantastic iconic image of how Europe finally, after four months, alongside the necessary participation with our Ukrainian brothers, chooses the path of diplomacy, not leaving it entirely in the hands of the Turks, Israelis or Chinese. It is clear that citizens' concerns are primarily about inflation and the cost of living: justice is not the problem considered number one. However, justice is a drama, not for the politicians who run through it, like a single, tired and boring narration, but for that citizen who is taken away from the possibility of living, in case you run into an innocent process and can't prove it, if not after so many years. This constant story, which is why politics wants to stop the judiciary, confronts a fact. There are extraordinary magistrates, very good, to whom our gratitude goes, but this story clashes with a consideration that no one has the courage to make in this Assembly, that in the last thirty years, the years of the infamous climate, to use a meaningful quote, there has been no word of truth about the two magistrates symbol of our country. Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino obviously deserve the gratitude and esteem of all of us and the eternal gratitude of Italy, but they were not rewarded even after their death by a true story about what happened. It was not politics that blocked Giovanni Falcone. The Minister of Grace and Justice Martinazzoli built the bunker room for the Mafia trial. The minister of grace and justice Claudio Martelli, I want to publicly acknowledge this here, saved Falcone, taking him to Rome to work. They were parts of the judiciary and the CSM that said that Falcone did not have the authority and independence to lead the fight against the Mafia, it was that political part of the judiciary, some currents, that should make mea culpa today. To tell, at times shamefully, that it was politics that blocked the magistrates and that there was the negotiation Mafia State was, in these thirty years, used to give the image of politicians as ugly and bad and that part "currentized" of the judiciary as the part of the good. We have the courage to say it, don't we? Madam Minister, when expressions of organised currents speak of cordon health against political opponents, regardless of the discussion on crimes, they do so for choices that politicians make and it is even more serious. In fact, if they pursue a crime, they do their job, but if they say that a medical cord is needed against a political opponent, inside the magazine of a current of the judiciary, the silence of the institutions is serious. Madam Minister, having let go of the message that the Palamara affair can be closed with a scapegoat is the denial of justice. Justice is done when you tell the truth, not when you find a good scapegoat, who pays for everyone. Those ways in which the CSM acted and in which Dr. Palamara acted are the same as in which one continues to act and has acted for decades, in a constant relationship between politics and the judiciary. In this Parliament, if we want to, let us name those who took part in the meetings with the magistrates. We can't keep teasing about these issues. [[Applause]] There is a fact, Madam Minister: when a prosecutor of the Republic ignores the alarm of a carabiniere, who writes that a parent is going to kill his wife or son and that same prosecutor of the Republic is concerned with much more visible arrests, media and show, ignoring that a carabiniere, that is a piece of the state, writes to arrest a person because he could hurt the son and that son is killed, the reaction cannot be simply sending inspectors to that prosecutor. Someone needs to pay for this. When, in the face of the MPS scandal, there is an executive who falls from the fourth floor and the investigations are done shamefully or superficially, the fact that no one says a word from the institutions about who has wrong will never, of course, be able to soothe the pain of that family, but it is a matter of ethics. The fact that at this historic moment, Mrs Minister, there are magistrates sexually harassing colleagues and that, after so many debates in this House and outside, they are held responsible for that sexual harassment and therefore sanctioned by the MSC with the loss of two months of seniority, is a disgrace. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC, FdI, L-SP-PSd'Az]] , because if there is sexual harassment you hit, otherwise it is useless to campaign on the number antiviolence 1522. Where are the institutions saying those magistrates are wrong? [[Applause]] Respecting the magistrates who are well their work is the prerequisite, but there is a need to punish those who are wrong. Mr President, it is clear that these are not the only issues of political debate at this stage; there is a broader issue which concerns the pavidity of politics, which is also measured by the fact that we have all too often used investigations for the purposes of justice. It's yesterday's story that some of the 5 Stars might have the courage to apologize to the Boschi family, but they won't. [[Applause]] In the remaining time available to you in Parliament you could find a minimum of courage to apologize; you will not, that is not the point. The point is that 7 million Italians went to vote in the referendum and were fooled because 7 million Italians are a minority. Remember that the battles on rights make minorities, which then become majorities; and those 7 million Italians will be decisive in the next election campaign to have just justice and a different country. Good job! [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u20	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Senate Assembly is about to finally adopt a wrong, regressive, certainly useless, Senator Renzi, but also harmful, if you will allow me. Italian justice, in fact, and the vast majority of Italian magistrates, who love their work and perform the high function they are called with great commitment and professionalism, deserved much more. This law doesn't even affect the power of currents in the CSM; In fact, it introduces an electoral system that enhances their contractual power and makes them even stronger. The only way to cut at the root this shameful degeneration of the albeit legitimate and proper democratic pluralism, which demeans all the honest magistrates and disconcerts all the Italians, would be the temperate draw, as honestly recognized by lawyers distinguished and free as Nordio and Gratteri, and as proposed also by Brothers of Italy with our amendments, obviously all rejected by a deaf and indifferent Chamber. Moreover, a Parliament that cuts 37% of its members in the name of savings and at the same time increases the members of the MSC by 25% - in addition to having more than doubled the staff that can be hired with collaboration contracts - demonstrates all its subdiction to the power of those same currents, which in words, and only in words, someone (who then withdraws the amendments in this House) says he wants to fight. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This law of yours, moreover, hardly touches on the controversial phenomenon of the so-called revolving doors between the judiciary and politics, ignoring that when a magistrate is running for election - and the same reasoning applies even when he assumes positions of government that are political in nature - he is forever stripped of impartiality, which is the very essence of his high function, regardless of whether he is then elected or not. Those who take sides with a party, dear Minister, must no longer return to judicial functions. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] , if you really care about the good reputation of the judiciary. This is the view of the citizens, who are entitled to be judged by a judge not only impartial, but who also appears to be so, as Caesar's wife. Of course, you have also rejected all our amendments on this point. This law of yours does not even address the issue of out-of-role magistrates, which today are as many as 200, in addition to 20 administrative magistrates, limiting itself to a general and indeterminate commitment to their downsizing in the implementation of the delegation, but without saying whether this downsizing must be one percent, 2%, 10% or 50%. Of course, our amendment proposing to indicate this reduction, at least to the extent of 50%, was also rejected. But does it seem normal to you, ladies and gentlemen, that all the leadership of the Ministry of Justice should be held by judges who are out of office, with one exception which, in fact, confirms the rule? You did not even want to remedy the scandalous privilege of the double salary that the off-duty magistrates receive, which continue to perceive the substantial emolument as a magistrate, adding it to the allowance for the function they perform out-of-role, as if it were an annuity. On this too, all the amendments which aimed to put an end to it were rejected. In this law, less than any other privilege is addressed, than to define feudal in nature is the minimum: I refer to the privilege of substantial immunity which, in violation of Article 28 of the Constitution, the law on the responsibility of the magistrates guarantees the magistrates that by their wrong and negligent acts and decisions, with guilt and malice, they cause damage to the citizens. It is a substantial immunity, a feudal privilege, I repeat, because in democracy everyone should respond to the consequences of their mistakes: it is a fundamental principle of our legal system, as well as a constitutional principle. Dear Minister, when there is someone more equal than others - as George Orwell taught us in the book "The Farm of Animals" - then there is no more democracy. Re-read Article 28 of the Constitution: it applies to all civil servants, it does not apply to magistrates. But does it seem normal to you that a magistrate who causes even a billion damages with his decision, the most wrong and negligent in the world, responds differently from all other citizens, within six months of his salary? Can a magistrate fail a company that is worth billions and responds within six gross monthly amounts of his salary, Madam Minister? And no one is scandalized by this. But is it not written in the law that all respond to their obligations with their present and future assets? It should be added to Article 2740 of the Civil Code, except for the magistrates, who still have a feudal privilege. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Too weak is also the solution adopted for the separation of functions between pm and judges. Keeping a single passage within nine years what's the point? I ask you, Minister: what's the point? It is an ideological choice, a choice that serves to affirm the full equivalence between the prosecutor and the judge and to deny the evidence, namely that the two functions meet requirements, mentality, mode of action, mental dress and form mentis totally opposed to each other. Those who judge must be impartial, as our Constitution requires. Not so, of course, who must support the accusation, for reasons that are so obvious that I do not dwell on it. Until the full independence of the two careers is reached, it will not be possible to say, according to the Brothers of Italy, fully realized the principle of the right process, which wants to accuse and defend on a level of absolute equality, what unfortunately still does not happen today. We have tried, together with other groups, to change the measure at least in some more striking and more obvious points, where contradictions were manifest. We have tried to amend and improve this legislation somewhat in those parts where it was most harmful. An absolute wall, impossible to argue. Even there was the outrage of the PD secretary Enrico Letta, who allowed himself to mark as obstruction the presentation of a few dozen amendments, calling even for confidence in yesterday's day [[Applause]] , because some groups, with a few dozen amendments, among other things discussed in this House in two or three hours, have tried to improve this measure. This is the concept of democracy of the Democratic Party, which with this exit of its secretary openly manifests all its authoritarian vocation. [[Applause]] And the Democratic Party certainly has the straw tail, because when we speak euphemistically of the polluted relationship between politics and the judiciary, we should be a little clearer, because Palamara's interceptions speak clearly, because the two books of Palamara speak clearly. The theme is not the relationship between politics and the judiciary, dear Minister; the theme is the relationship between a particular political party, which is the majority shareholder of its Government and which is called the Democratic Party, and certain judiciary enslaved to that party. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is the reason why today we adopt a law that is useless, if not harmful, and this is the reason why Brothers of Italy strongly expresses their vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, we are not hiding and we are clearly saying that we would have much preferred to discuss a better reform than this. The judicial system is one of the crucial ganglia of democratic life and therefore it would have taken much more courage to correct a system that clearly - it is in everyone's eyes - does not work. The many scandals of recent years, together with the dramatic slowness and ineffectiveness of the justice machine, undermine the necessary confidence of citizens and citizens, with serious and serious consequences for the whole country. There has been some sacrifice, on the altar of a possible majority agreement, of the possibility of making improvements. However, I also say very clearly that the five referenda questions and the referendum campaign were, in the end, an element that prevented this branch of Parliament from doing its job, trying to improve the text and, therefore, having the time to make the other step. The referendum, with a failure that is before everyone's eyes, meant, among other things, that Parliament's examination work should be suspended in some way and postponed until after the referendum. I consider this an element that certainly did not help the attempt to try to do a better job. This text is certainly the fruit of an agreement, but an agreement that has been suffered, that has tried to put together the various souls that make up the majority, that in many cases have different visions. Justice, as has been understood by many interventions, continues to be a very divisive element, especially among the forces that make up such an articulated majority. We, however, continue to think that we could and should have done better I think, in particular, of the elective system for the CSM which, in our opinion, does not eliminate at the root the force of the currents. If one had really wanted to reward merit and not belonging to a current, one could have opted for a different elective system, such as the one proposed in the bill at the first signature of President Grasso. I shall now return to the case referred back. Even the sound rejection of the referendum should in some way have made us realize that we do not despair that we may find a solution, even later, perhaps in the next parliamentary term. We also have some concerns about something which is not at all marginal from our point of view, such as the division of powers. Another consideration is related to the so-called revolving doors. It would have been better, in our opinion, to close all the revolving doors between the judiciary and politics: to seal them even. However, we must strongly say that the text that we are about to adopt nevertheless contains a step forward, namely the placement of one year out of place or a relocation of non-judicial posts for those magistrates who have held apical political positions. There are other elements that we want to stress and which we regard as a step forward in this reform. Therefore, positive elements, among which we must point out the need, expressed through the delegations, to review the legal order of the judiciary, with the specific reference to the need to remodulate it according to principles of transparency and valorization of merit. It is important, then, to assign to the Government a rationalization of the judicial council, with the mandate expressed by the Parliament to ensure simplification, transparency and rigour in professional evaluations. Another positive aspect concerns the delegation to change the conditions for access to the judiciary of law graduates. The profession of magistrate must be exercised by those who prove to be in possession of the legal and moral skills appropriate to the role. An obstacle course before even carrying out competitive tests does not help improve the quality of magistrates, but selects at the base only those who can afford many years after university without working. The formation of the magistrate is important, not only at the moment of access to the career, but throughout its duration. For this reason, we welcome the extension of the training courses for the assignment of management tasks to the managerial seeds, increasing their duration and quality. Too many times politics awaits and we have here many times evidence, right here in this House, just the last moment to make up for it: even, sometimes even then, we do not decide to do what needs to be done. I am thinking, for example, of crucial issues, such as end-of-life, minimum wage, ius soli, life imprisonment. These are all measures on which we continue to waste a lot of time, and this is very serious. What we are expressing today, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Undersecretary, is a painful vote, we are not hiding it. It was urgent to give a new law to the country as soon as possible in view of the natural expiry of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in office, as well as to continue to achieve the European objectives related to the PNRR. In addition to the rules that will enter into force immediately, there is also a whole part of the delegation to the Government and we want to be very clear about this, because we will be very careful to ensure that the Executive writes rules in full respect of the borders that Parliament decides today. I repeat that we really would have wanted a reform that represented what many in recent years have asked and expected: a real change of pace, a real reform, which, among other things, would put an end once and for all to the continuous war that has still manifested itself here against the magistrates and the judiciary and that could represent that step forward absolutely necessary, I do not say to arrive at a peace process, but to say that it really opens up a new season to the end. Let us hope that we can continue along this path. Therefore, despite the missed opportunity and the awareness that politics could once again be a little more forward-looking, I declare the vote in favour of the Mixed-Liberary and Equal-Ecosolidary Group on the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u26	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are approving the third important reform of justice, so I would like to give a warning to sailors, and also to some well-known commentators, saying that no one can fail to know or pretend that they do not know that Parliament is doing reforms on justice. He does them and he does them. [[Applause]] There are three important reforms: that of the civil process, that of the criminal process and the reform of the MSC, all very well connected. We had an obsession that we can put aside today, that is, that this reform could be sunk down and that everything remained the same, because we knew and know that we could not and cannot allow everything to remain the same. We have also told that part of the judiciary that, in our opinion, it was wrong, it had a strong position and did not want to understand how important and innovative there was in this reform. That is our concern and our secretary's concern. I would not like to disappoint my colleague Balboni, whom I esteem, but I would like to say that Secretary Letta certainly did not think of him or the Brothers of Italy, so he was not at the top of our thoughts. [[Applause]] We were only concerned about this, and we took the risk that this reform would be sunk down. Given that politics and its centrality are always and rightly evoked, the greatest risk is that it would fail politics, it would no longer have been credible, after those applauses given to President Mattarella when, in the speech of his inauguration, he called us to this important duty. Moreover, when politics fails, the relationship with the citizens is broken, and trust in the institutions is lost. As far as the evils of justice are concerned, I also have different experiences from a professional point of view. You can tell there's already a division upstream of a lawyer. When they ask me, the first question that my caregivers ask me is: How long will it take? It is a matter of guarantees, of the rights of the person, both in civil and in criminal matters. [[Applause]] This is therefore an important reform: it addresses the issue of the credibility (in crisis) of the judiciary, which clearly cannot be resolved only by a reform, and it addresses a nodal point that we have found, namely a power struggle for power. This is what we must oppose and we are against it - and we are pleased with this - by amending an electoral law, which is not decisive, but which contains a proportional rebalancing for greater contendability and non-predictability and also provides for a rebalancing of gender quotas. We think we need to scratch this, because - as someone may remember - the main problem of a character known to the chronicle as Palamara was what current to choose as more scalable. In his book Palamara explained that he had chosen a certain current because it was more scalable. So what are we talking about? There are very important measures in this reform. The first is the stop to package appointments: only more appointments, in chronological order. The second is a greater articulation in the evaluation of magistrates: stop to automatisms and evaluation also of the macroscopic procedural denials, in connection with the norm, introduced in the reform, which provides that in the criminal process you do not ask for referral to judgment if there is no reasonable conviction to obtain a conviction. Is that part of the guarantee? I think so. The third measure is the opening to the vote of lawyers on these assessments, because the encrustations of power are also fought by opening, with pluralism and not with closure. It's the closed systems that we have to fight. The issues of revolving doors and out-of-role doors were then addressed. I had a moment (but it really lasted a second) of illusion in the idea that you can share cultures, learn, learn, when Senator Pillon quoted Antonio Gramsci. I had to resume immediately, because it must be remembered that when Gramsci was imprisoned the judiciary had undergone several interventions by an authoritarian and non-democratic system. In fact, in 1934 the magistrates were forced to enroll in the Fascist Party, 17 were destituted and I could go on like this. We are certainly not homesick about this and our future is not Poland as regards intervention on the judicial order. But we do not even long for the loopholes in Parliament's classrooms, when there was Tangentopolis, as well as easy applause for investigations; we do not long for the "port of fog" and we do not want the spectacularization of justice anymore. We have also spoken on this. I am very pleased that from this point of view, amendments by the Democratic Party coincided with amendments by other political forces. Let's think of a few references. I had promised myself never to quote Pietro Calamandrei, because very often he is mentioned to disprove. However, I would like to quote him, because - not alone - he pronounced a famous arranga in defense of Danilo Dolci, tried in 1956 because he had promoted a strike on the contrary: to protect the poor people in Sicily, who suffered angeries and had no services, he made a strike on the contrary, starting work to dissolve the lands. He was tried using what was still left of a fascist order. It mobilized all democratic and liberal Italy and there was an extraordinary college of defense. Why am I quoting him? Because that was the first step towards a constitutionally oriented interpretation of standards and major innovations. These are therefore our references. Again, the liberal culture is often evoked in this country which, I would like to remind everyone, if we are to be honest and frank, has a history of liberal culture which is strongly minority, but which we should all draw from the different political stories. Let's try to rewrite a little alphabet and share it. When referring to the people, we must think of the citizens because, if we think of the citizens, we give them rights, duties and dignity of people, while when we speak of the people generally understood in reality we think of something else, of people with no respect for them and to whom they have contempt: and this is populism. Then there is consent. Certainly politics must seek consensus, because it lives with consensus. However, when we talk about justice, we must not seek easy consensus. Are we ready for this? Finally, there is power, of course. Liberal democracies are the most advanced form of reading and conjugation of what is balance and control between powers, which is the opposite of authoritarianism. As I conclude, it has rightly been said of the possible reforms and everyone has legitimately announced that he will do more and better if he has a majority in the next parliamentary term. We too, of course, so consistently the prison is the extreme ratio, since in 2015 we approved a reform of the protective custody - I would like to remind you - precisely by putting more stakes on the issue of recurrence and I remember that the League voted against. Times, process, centrality of the contradictory in the process. However, in coming to the possible reforms, I demand that this so important reform, which has to do with institutional principles, has necessarily been shared by a large majority, just as it must be for this type of reform, so I do not minimize it. [[Applause]] Certainly it is a possible reform, but I am proud to have shared it with colleagues of Forza Italia and MoVimento 5 Stars, not accessing easy solutions and rejecting choices that, not only were not constitutional, but also had obvious naiveties, because to say that with the draw you are opposed to the struggles of power for power is naive or is not exactly sincere. I will really conclude by saying that this reform could have been the second half of a game that has never been completed. Luckily, it wasn't like that. The war is over. The war is over. We are in the age of commitment to the service of the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u29	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we have voted against all the amendments put to the vote, although we share some of them. Not only that, some were also the result of the cultural elaboration of Forza Italia for thirty years. Why did we vote against it then? Because it was necessary, in our opinion, to send away the High Council in office and to respect the electoral moment, without making any extensions. In fact, something revolutionary and very serious has happened in our country with the story of the Champagne Hotel and of Palamara and I am not just referring to the recommendations emerged from the interceptions and statements contained in the books of Palamara and Sallusti. I am much more interested in what emerges from the discussion at the Champagne Hotel, where there were members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, former members and parliamentarians to discuss not only the choice of the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, but to realize a discontinuity in the management of the Public Prosecutor of Rome. There is a serious problem here, because if we begin to discuss the possibility of a discontinuity in the management of the proxy, it is as if it were an administrative office where we can discuss discontinuity, but we cannot discuss discontinuity with respect to judicial action. In fact, at a time when there is no model of organisation of the judicial office or of prosecution and there is no model in the Constitution or in the judicial order, when it is proposed a discontinuity in the management of the attorney of Rome means no more or less that one has a model that one wants to impose on others and one has the power to do so, because one must appoint the prosecutor of the Republic. This means a strong interference in jurisdiction, therefore a great danger to our country. I will say shortly that I believe in the reform in progress, because many parts of the reform are good, although some elements were probably missing. Perhaps we should have done, as I said from the beginning, a path regardless of the adoption of the amendments, because I was not interested in putting the flags, but I was much more interested in a debate in the Senate Justice Commission at the same time as in the House. The reform is good from the point of view of the judges' assessment, but there is a danger: a hearing obligation has been introduced. You, Minister, know better about the university system than I do, and you know that the hearings in that area have not had a positive effect. What's the problem with the auditions? I am referring to 1978, when for the first time I had to resume a colleague who was then a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, who asked a candidate who was aspiring to a management office what he wanted to do and how he thought he could manage that office. Let us return to the problem of the Champagne Hotel: you cannot ask a candidate what he wants to do in the organization of the office, because at the time when this is done some idea of model is proposed that is not provided for by the Constitution and the judicial order. I appeal to you because you, who have a constitutional culture, cannot fail to understand the danger that there is in a forecast of this kind. On the other hand, we need a reform in progress because we need to be careful about the possible repercussions and make corrections. 10:39 a.m. (Following Caliendo) I take note of some twists and moments when we voted against some issues, but colleagues in the League voted on the individual articles of this law, they made proposals, some of which I agree with and others do not, but this is about the logic of confrontation. Sometimes I have worked on laws with Senator Mirabelli or Senator Balboni, who belong to two different worlds, but it doesn't matter because the logic of any reform of justice moves on a single line: you can't put flags in the reforms of justice. We must choose solutions that can be good for our country. Madam Minister, when we started discussing the reform, there was no new figure. How many are the acquitted because the fact does not exist or does not constitute a crime? I'm a huge number lately. You will have to pose a problem. Is it just the hypertrophy of a prosecutor who does not give up on the evaluation, positive or negative, of what he has done until then? Or do you fall in love with his ideas so much that it goes on despite subsequent tests say that it is not so? Do you realize what it means when absolution because the fact does not exist arrive in the successive degrees compared to the first and, therefore, there is an absolute value that led to the judgment of first instance and condemnation, even if it was completely wrong? Senator Balboni, too, just now, gave correct indications regarding the reduction of the number of out-of-roles. I remember that during the period of terrorism I was at the Board of Governors and then I took part in the processes of Clean Hands. We never have to throw the baby out with dirty water. The positive aspects of a reform still need to be identified. When I am told that we have to reduce the number of out-of-role, I say that's fine, but then I have to reason in terms of effectiveness. I cannot agree when I am told that, with some rules, the out-of-role will be of extraction only of Rome or Naples because they would not have the opportunity to come others from other areas of Italy. Justice, on the other hand, needs to have an awareness of the various realities of our country. At the same time, I cannot fail to take into account that sometimes random numbers are launched, like some amendments. It is sufficient to consider that the 30 members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are not considered to be among the 20 or more secretaries. For this reason, I believe that we must make the pact of continuing to carry out a verification and eventual modification. Moreover, I will be resuming in September (and I trust in your positive assessment) the two amendments, which I consider to be essential because they were corrections of errors. What interests me most is the opening of a new confrontation. In 1986, we had three measures to reform justice in the same year. This means paying attention to the consequences of the reforms that have just been approved. In doing so, we will have realized the dream of having a dialogue between us, not conditioned by the desire to defend our amendment, but aimed at achieving a justice that can give citizens the hope that the magistrate is not conditioned by personal interests, nor by political interests, even if I do not say that it can be precisely the judge who, according to a volcano of the United States, rarely speaks to himself, sometimes with God. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u32	BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this reform would have been a good reform if we had approved it four years ago. I say this because the history of the judiciary, in Italy, is divided into two ages: before and after the scandal Palamara. Before the Palamara scandal, then before 2019, the judiciary was certainly above suspicion and was crowned as the moral guarantor of the country. In that context, this reform has a number of positive aspects, such as the fact of saying stop to revolving doors, the limitation of the passages of function and the new evaluation of the professionalism of the magistrates. So, these novelties and these small corrections, which have led us to accompany this reform and which lead us to vote positively today, there are, but they are small innovations, that in that context would have been the icing on the cake, they would have made sense and deserved the applause and our truly convinced adhesion. In that context, in fact, honestly, we all still believed that there was room to give the judiciary the task of self-forming itself. However, we are no longer in 2018, but we are in another era and I believe that this reform, which has positive aspects, has this characteristic: it is anachronistic and does not take into account the novelties. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The novelties are those that emerge in the post-Palamara era, in which some indispensable principles are being lost sight, among which - we will see well because - the impartiality of the judiciary. I give examples, right and left, to be impartial, even though I don't have to be. The democratic magistrate was born with a culture of the guild, saying: we are not impartial judges, or rather we are not indifferent, we are biased, we are on the side of the weakest, because this is written in the Constitution, not because this is a revolution. Minister, this was written in Palamara's second book and there is a judge who, in an intercept, says explicitly: We don't have to be impartial, but we have to be biased. This is not a thesis, but it is a thing we read. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] So, Minister, I wonder and ask you if, in your opinion, a judge who says that he feels partisan and close to the weakest, when judging, that it is a very delicate moment, because he has two plates of the scales on which he must weigh the evidence, will he place the evidence of the prosecution and the defense or will he put the social state of the people who are in conflict with each other in that case? I still wonder: if there is a case between an entrepreneur, an employer, and an employee, a judge who says he is not impartial, what hope does he give to the person who, in quotes, seems not the weakest? Of course, let us leave aside, because perhaps it would concern us, a possible conflict between a poor migrant and a powerful minister. How impartial can anyone say that, regardless of the cards, he is on the side of the weak and is not impartial? I wonder if this is something that we can let go of, which we do not have to deal with in a reform. For correctness I quote an opposite example, of independent Magistracy. Publicly, in a public meeting, while I supported the thesis of the necessity of the draw, an independent magistrate of Magistracy said to be careful, because the draw is very dangerous, since, referring only to the case, it would be possible to find in the MSF only right-wing magistrates, who side on one side, or only left-wing magistrates, who side on the other. I don't want the magistrate to take part, Minister! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and Senator Malan Groups]] That's all I want. That's all I care about. What I believe - and that I am noticing - is that while before the Palamara scandal the fact of taking sides, of taking sides, of being left and right when they said it to each other in the intercepts, now there has been a qualitative leap; now they speak publicly of their deployments, the situation is getting worse, it is not improving. Now they tell us in the conferences: us on the right, you on the left. Minister, I have tried to talk about this often because we cannot say that all in all this is currentism. How do I correct it? I know it's a subject you wanted to address, but the problem is this: one thing is currentism, another is the degeneration of currentism. Above all, if we now accept this currentism that has become degeneration, if the legislator, as it is happening, does not intervene, all this becomes absolute normality. It already means that what happened in the era that preceded the Palamara scandal is happening now and will happen tomorrow. And if it happens tomorrow, one day history will judge us, Minister, and it will judge this reform, carried out in 2022, after years of scandal. How are we intervening on that issue? With some touch-ups? In the face of shocking revelations we need a shocking change, not a touch-up. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] If we are to analyze the reactions resulting from the revelations of Palamara we must be honest: who reacted after the revelations of Palamara? Certainly there have been criminal proceedings, so we can say that the judiciary has reacted; the CSM has taken initiatives, so the CSM has reacted (we will then see the outcome of all these initiatives); but there is something missing from the appeal, there is a large absentee. You are proposing this reform, made up of adjustments, as we have said, to fill in some gaps; we are voting on these adjustments, but we cannot fail to see a great lack of appeal. And I told you, Minister, what is missing: there is no constitutional reform. That is what should have been done, because a constitutional law would have opened the debate; a constitutional law - and there was a time to do so, I told you in unsuspecting times - would have allowed us to discuss not only how to go to the MSC, but who is worthy of going to the MSC. That's the point. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] Minister, as Mrs Rossomando says, you have made three very important reforms; you could have gone into history, you could have sat us at a constitutional table. Yes, we are different, very different as a political sensibility, would we have clashed? Yes, of course, but I tell you one thing: we would have clashed because we often clashed and because it is right that there are different sensibilities, but I believe that we would have sat at that table at least starting from a premise that we all share. The premise is that a magistrate, whether it is a democratic judiciary or an independent judiciary, if he feels legitimate to misuse his power improperly is not impartial and cannot be a magistrate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I repeat, it must apply both to MI and to MD and no political party sitting at that table in my opinion would have succumbed to the temptation to give the attenuating to the one who abuses, if of his own political side; this is not, this must not be done. I am convinced that what is missing is this table, as I am convinced that in this respect it is a missed opportunity. What was the starting point of a table? I know, all the magistrates have a heart, which can beat to the right or to the left. But the point of departure is that if you enter the CSM or in a courtroom you take your heart, you put yourself in a backpack and you leave it out. We must all agree on this, otherwise we can clash with the paragraphs and the rules, but if we are giving up - as we are doing - the impartiality of the judge is really a failure. Therefore, even if we vote for this reform, it is an anachronistic reform; we stand firm at the pre-Palamara. You see, we at the League - but I think I can say "we of the center-right" about this - no longer believe in the fact that suddenly the judiciary will self-form. We don't believe it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] We strongly believe that effective reform is the duty of the legislator. We believe that the path to this constitutional reform could have started it yourself, Madam Minister, but at this point, since it was not started by you, our path will be there, it will be crooked and difficult and it will take tenacity and determination. We will make a reform that will finally change something in everyone's interest, a courageous reform. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u35	MAIORIN (M5S). Madam President, Mrs Ministro, Undersecretary, Colleagues and Colleagues, the path that has led us to the final approval, hopefully, of the draft law for the reform of the judiciary and the CSM was neither simple nor without obstacles. This has been evident to the last, until I arrive here in the Chamber, when the League, forgetting to be a majority force, has maintained and voted its more than 200 amendments against the opinion of the Government and even asked for a secret vote, exposing the reform to the risk of being sunk down and never seeing the light, with a rapporteur, the President of the Commission Justice Hostellari, who betrayed the mandate that the Commission had entrusted to him, has returned to the Assembly. What about Italia Viva, who has just announced that she will not vote for the reform? I imagine Renzi will now, consistently, withdraw his ministers from the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Renzi and consistency in the same sentence... I want to make it clear that this reform that we are voting on today is possible reform with this strange majority, but it is certainly not the best. We have another idea of justice. Our task, however, was to prevent the establishment of the Bonafede reform, which was the basis for this reform. Our bill fully responded to the need for renewal and contrast to the degeneration of the currentism that has often been mentioned in this House and to safeguard the principles of unity of jurisdiction, independence and impartiality of the judiciary. Of course, however, this text is far better than what would have come out of the referendums. The outcome of the referendum - as was widely expected - has certified the instrumental use that has been made of these sacred instruments of democratic participation. It was an ideological operation that mortified a fundamental and precious institute of democracy. I hope that the proposers have now learned, from the sound lost, that the problems of justice are not solved by submitting twisted questions to the citizens and on matters that do not passionate. On the other hand, for example, the theme of the end of life is passionate, but even here the League continues to keep blocked a provision of civilization in the relevant Commissions. [[Applause]] Returning to the draft law before us in this House, it must be stressed that several of the rules contained in it have been proposed by the Movimento 5 Stars. I am thinking, for example, of the facilitation of access to a career in the judiciary by new graduates: the aspiring magistrates will no longer have to pay large sums of money with the obtaining of further university degrees. But I am thinking above all of a central element of the Bonafede reform, maintained and continued in this reform: the definitive stop at the revolving doors between the judiciary and politics. The subject, as you know, is very relevant. The bill complies with the request made to Italy by the Greek, the anti-corruption body of the Council of Europe. Of course, there are also things in this text that we do not share, such as the subject of the passage of functions. The text provides for a reduction to a single step over the first nine years of career, from the judicial to requisitioning function and vice versa. The 5 Star Movimento instead conceives the passage of functions as a moment of professional enrichment for the magistrate and we believe that rigidly limiting the passage can isolate the pm and remove them from the culture of jurisdiction, pillar of the judicial role. We will prevent this change from leading to the final separation of careers, as has already been announced in this House. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Movimento 5 Stars had tabled amendments on these issues both in the Commission and in this House. [[Brusio]] Correctly I would ask for a little silence, President, if that's possible. Is it possible to ask for some silence? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, it's too loud. I can't hear it either. Please, Senator Maiorino. MAIORIN (M5S). He didn't get much better. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please continue. MAIORIN (M5S). On these issues the Movimento 5 Stars had tabled amendments both in the Commission and in this House. Properly we have withdrawn them; correctly and consistently with the word given, because this reform has been the result of long and close encounters, in which we have had to balance visions even very distant from each other. We have therefore withdrawn our proposals correctly. But I want to say one thing: there is no other reason in the world why I and all my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, of all levels, have entered politics, except to change this country, to give voice to those who have never had a voice, to those Saints in paradise, to do the real interests of the country and change deaf, blind and selfish politics. We have accepted so many compromises in the name of the greater good of the country, which have cost us dearly. Our correctness we pay dearly every day, in which we tirelessly strive to make our contribution to this Government, a Government that we do not feel ours, that we did not want and in which we are alone and exclusively in the interest of the Italians and certainly not in our interest. But there is a limit and that limit is precisely the country's interest. When, to strike us, you are willing to strike and harm the country, here we will not tolerate it, we cannot tolerate it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 110% superbonus has given back momentum to the economy and breathe into our business and economic fabric and has a beneficial impact on the environment and energy consumption. Well, unlock it, reactivate it, because dismantling it is not a slap at Movimento 5 Stars, but a punch at the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Pretend that we didn't do it; this government takes full and responsible responsibility to unlock it. It is this morning's news that the poor in our country have reached 6 million. [[Comments from Senators Malan and Zaffini.]] After the pandemic crisis and now the rise in prices and energy, today there are 6 million Italians and Italians living in poverty, exposed to the misery and sirens of crime, the mafia organizations, strozzering, blackmail and undeclared work. Yet every day we hear great statesmen, who also sit here in this House and are part of this majority, attack the income of citizenship and say all sorts of nefariousness about this measure of dignity, which is a donut of rescue for those who are drowning. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We cannot tolerate that. To hit us, we are willing to drive the country adrift and insult every day millions of Italians, victims of economic policies and asphyxiation, who have gone on for thirty years. This Government has the political duty, but first of all moral, to strengthen the income of citizenship, to make it fully active in all its parts, to do so, not only regulatoryly, with concrete actions, but communicatively and politically, not for the 5 Star Movement, which loyally sits in this majority, but for the Italy Country, which should be the only real concern of all of us, whatever the political side of belonging. Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, more and better could be done on the reform of the judiciary and the CPMP, but without the support of the Group which I have the honour to represent the result would certainly have been worse than the one achieved. The fruits of the work will be evaluated only over time, but I have kept in mind that the Movimento 5 Stars will always stand up to defend the country and safeguard the principles of the Constitution, including those of Title IV, that is, the judiciary and justice. For these reasons, I voted in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u37	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u38	GIARRUSSO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a dark moment in this House of the history of the country and of this Senate. The most important reform of this legislature has seen this House and the Senate put out of business. No intervention has been possible to improve what everyone, except a political group, called a bad reform in their speeches. Colleagues, the Palamara scandal can be described in a few words: the idea that, by controlling few prosecutors, you could have Italy in your hands. Colleagues, who was controlling these prosecutors? One man, Palamara, or was there a party of these prosecutors? It existed, because you said it: more sauces you said. You said it and you know it. And certainly the party of prosecutors was not Forza Italia; it was not even Renzi's party and it was not even the League. Let's not talk about those of "we change Italy for the worse." With this reform, ladies and gentlemen, you are putting yourself in the hands of that party of prosecutors, who will indeed have full control of the action of the requisitioning judiciary. You will remember these words and this speech by Italexit, because you had the means and the numbers to prevent this. And you have said that, but you will not need the words, the good words spent in this House without the vote against. You won't need them soon after this truce that the procurator party gave you when they use them against you. You won't need them, colleagues, remember that. We're gonna vote against this, because we're not doing this shit! Shame! [[Applause from Senators Paragon and Hammers.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u39	Senator Giarrusso, there's no need to exaggerate with terminology. Some terms are better not to use them in this House. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2595, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD Group.]] The draft law No 2119 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u42	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring to your attention and to the attention of the House what has been happening since yesterday afternoon and is still happening in the former Malagrotta dump. It is a huge fire, devastating, which first involved a shed, then the still gasifier, then the conveyor belt and finally the entire mechanical-biological treatment system (TMB). It is a plant that treats 900 of the 3,000 tons a day that Rome produces. It is obvious, therefore, that the first thought goes to the people who have been torn apart for years in that area which, I would like to remind you, is the only one in Central and South which is subject to the Seveso dioxin directive. [[Brusio in the Chamber.]] I would ask for some respect not so much for me, but for the population and for the more than 40 firemen who are trying to control a fire that seems indomitable in these hours. They have intervened and are still intervening first eight, then 12 and then 16 means, even special, of firefighters. It is these hours a draconian order of the mayor of Rome that establishes a zone of respect of 6 kilometers, closes the kindergartens, schools, prohibits the consumption of food, asks the people who are one kilometer from the plant to stay locked in the house. The first thought goes to them, but then there are two fundamental considerations that we have a duty to carry out. The first is that it is the third fire of a waste treatment plant in four years in Rome. On December 11, 2018, a fire completely destroyed the TMB salary, which at that time contained 3,000 tons of garbage, for three days the cameras did not work (who knows why): a disaster announced. On March 24, 2019 a fire hit the TMB of Rocca Cencia, which contained almost 500 tons; in that case the cameras were not even there, as there was no smoke detection system. These tragedies are announced, on which we have also acted and asked for attention as a Commission of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences. The second consideration concerns the plants in Rome and Lazio. It is not just a question of understanding where we are going to bring 900 tonnes of waste from now on, which risks bringing waste management to its knees in Rome, but of understanding why we are still stuck to a waste management plan that is that of the Polverini junta, because the plan for the management of the plant has just been approved, even if Zingaretti has been president since 2013. Someone must explain to us - also because it is Parliament's duty to intervene if a Region does not succeed - how one can, on the one hand, unanimously approve the request for Rome Capital to enter into the Constitution and then not be able to provide it with a waste management plant worthy of a civil country and have a political force like the 5 Stars crying out for scandal and threatening a crisis of government because an amendment has been inserted that provides special powers and rapid times to realize a thermovaluer in Lazio in Rome before the Jubilee. Let us have some consistency, let us do what every Italian citizen has the right to have. In order to protect the environment it is not enough to write it in the Constitution; in order to protect health from dioxin risk, it is not enough to say it in words, the facts are needed; it is necessary to move to a serious plant in Rome, Lazio and throughout the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u45	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement to the House on the emergency situation in Rome, which is also intertwined with parliamentary events. The House is discussing the decree-law aid, which contains a rule that entrusts to the mayor of Rome special powers to realize a thermo-valuer, which in the Capital is indispensable. Then there is another measure under consideration by the Chamber on the conferral of special powers in Rome Capital, with an amendment of the Constitution, which will be discussed in the Assembly next week and which sees as the first signatory a Member of our Group, our leader Barelli, and as rapporteurs Mr Calabria and Mr Ceccanti. This is a measure that the Montecitorio Assembly could fire already next week with a broad and cross-cutting consensus, which I hope the Senate will then be able to examine quickly, since, being an amendment of the Constitution, we will need a double reading, with the procedures we know. Above all, the decree-law helps, which gives powers to the current mayor of Rome for the thermo-valuer, highlights the errors and faults of the management of the Region, which is of the same party of the mayor Gualtieri. President Zingaretti did nothing in the nine years of his management to address the waste emergency of the Lazio Region and the Capital. The Lazio Region continues to send waste to the Netherlands, paying money to the Dutch and other foreign countries, who transform those waste into energy raw materials in their waste-to-energy heaters; with the mockery that the Dutch take showers with hot water, enriching themselves because Rome and Lazio pay for Holland to take charge of these waste that becomes energy raw material. We, as Forza Italia, share the rule that gives power to the mayor of Rome to realize the waste-to-energy, but it is the daughter of the irresponsibility of Zingaretti and the Lazio Region, which have done nothing, in almost a decade's management, to face the emergency waste, which is at the root of the tragedy of the fire of the landfill of Malagrotta, historical place of concentration of waste, worn out by time and garbage storage and today at the center of this fire, with dangers to health, closed windows and food not to be consumed. This Roman devastation is the daughter of the PD's inability to record and govern the waste emergency, as happened also in Palermo (I am talking about it because there were elections just now). [[Applause]] The Left in this area has a deficit balance. I hope that the decree-law will help and empower the Mayor of Rome, whom we support regardless of party membership, to give solutions. But the capital pays for the serious delay caused by Zingaretti and irresponsible management by the Democratic Party of the garbage emergency in Rome and Lazio. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u48	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches at the end of the sitting are not fresh water, so everyone says what they want. The speeches at the end of the sitting are important, because they point out to the competent authorities of our policy and to the citizens that they are listening to us real situations. But the truth must be told. The fire broke out tonight in a closed shed. It certainly released an infinite amount of smoke, but already in the early hours of the dawn of this day it had been tamed. Therefore, everything the colleague of the League has said and - I am sorry - President Gasparri, whom I appreciate, does not correspond to truth. This morning two orders were issued very early, one from the Municipality of Rome and one from the Municipality of Fiumicino, for the areas concerned. It's a six-mile radius. He is investigating why a fire has occurred in a closed and supervised place, such as a shed inside the landfill, which is also under surveillance. This is probably a technical problem. Having said that, the political exploitation of President Zingaretti is part of a parliamentary sloppiness that never makes the reflections centered on what happened. It is clear, in fact, that the Lazio government has no responsibility for these matches. I am silent, Mr President, because I think it is more important to reassure our citizens that the fire is tamed and under control. Schools are closed, windows are closed for this day, but although such a serious event should not have happened, it will soon pass.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u49	I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u50	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Environmental Transition and the Minister for Universities and Research will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-03387 on sanctions and controls on incentives for energy production, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u51	Mr Dear Minister, I would like to return to an issue which has already been the subject of various parliamentary requests, which, however, I believe to be crucial in resolving the many problems associated with the production of renewable energy. Article 13- bis of Decree-Law No 101 of 2019, converted with amendments by Law No 128 of 2019, introduced amendments to the sanctioning system of the controls on incentives in the electrical and thermal sector, provided by the Manager of Energy Services (GSE), referred to in Article 42 of Legislative Decree No 28 of 2011. The new sanctioning system provides that, by way of derogation from the provisions on the forfeiture from the incentives in order to safeguard the production of energy from renewable sources, thermal energy and energy saving, consequent to the interventions of efficiency of the plants, that at the time of the ascertainment of the violation receive incentives, the GSE arranges the reduction of the incentive in measure included between 10 and 50% because of the extent of the violation and that the Minister of the economic development - today the competence has passed to the Ministry of the ecological transition - with own decree defines the discipline of the controls referred to in paragraph 5 letter, c- bis), of article 42. Considering that from 3 November 2019, the date of entry into force of the new sanctioning system, to date the aforementioned implementing decree on the discipline of controls has not been issued, despite it has been announced several times as of imminent publication by the representatives of the Government, the aforementioned decree is of fundamental importance because not only would it allow to avoid future court disputes, but also to reduce the judicial disputes currently pending, thus allowing the producers, through the reduction of incentives, to be able to continue with the production of electricity from renewable sources. It is therefore asked to know the reasons for this delay and whether the Minister is aware of the time needed further for the adoption of the implementing decree referred to in Article 42, paragraphs 5 and 6, of Legislative Decree No. 28 of 2011. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u52	Mr President, the work of drafting the implementing decree referred to by Senator Durnwalder was first impacted by the amendment introduced on the regulation of the control activity put back to the GSE by the Decree-Law of 16 July 2020, No 76, the so-called simplifications, which was converted by Law No 120 of 11 September 2020. This measure has modified the scope and conditions for the exercise of the powers granted to the GSE in the context of the procedures of verification and control on incentives plants, making the power of the GSE to impose the forfeiture to the verification of the existence of the conditions for the exercise of the self-protection. Subsequently, in the light of the findings of the most recent administrative case-law, which stated on the modalities and terms of application of this novella, and in the light of the emergence of a consequent considerable dispute over more recent measures adopted by the GSE in the context of the activity of verifying the matter of incentives for the production of renewable sources, it was necessary to carry out a new investigation activity in order to overcome the critical profiles that emerged in the first application of the amendment of the norm, also with a view to ensuring for the future a more effective and less likely control activity before the judicial authority. We've had a lot of appeals. At this point the aforementioned investigation activity is essentially closed and will lead very quickly - we hope before the summer break - to the issuing of the draft decree. I hope that I have answered the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u53	I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u54	Minister, I am pleased with the answer. I hope that the time is now truly respected and that we can come to the enactment of the implementing decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u55	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-03091 on the reclamation of orphan sites, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u56	Minister, in January 2021, the decree of the then Ministry of the Environment was published in the Official Journal with which more than 105 million euros were earmarked for the reclamation of orphan sites. In August 2021, with the approval of the PNRR by the Ecofin Council, the same Ministry - meanwhile renamed "the ecological transition" - had another 500 million euros for the same purpose: 50 of those first 100 million were destined to the Regions of Southern Italy, as the rest half of the 500, and as many as 13.5 of those 50 to the single reclamation of the former landfill of special waste of Marabusca district in the agro of Gela. However, the orphan site, in accordance with Article 2 of the Decree of January 2021, is the one potentially contaminated, in which the clean-up procedure has not been initiated or has not been completed or for which the person responsible for pollution is not identifiable or, identified, does not comply with the requirements laid down; or, again, it is a site in respect of which the obliged persons do not conclude the activities and interventions. The investment of the PNRR called reclamation of orphan sites instead defines them as a legacy of industrial pollution, recognising a significant risk to health, with severe implications on the quality of life of the populations concerned. The purpose of their reclamation would therefore be to give the land a second use to make it a resource for economic development as an alternative site to green areas. I would ask you, Minister, if you are aware of the criteria for identifying orphan sites included in the annex to Ministerial Decree No 222 of 22 November 2021 and on the basis of which methodological assessments have been arranged priorities and allocation of the amounts envisaged. I still ask you how the actual qualification of orphan sites has been verified, since many of those included in the lists provided by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, and then merged into the action plan, are qualified as former abandoned industrial sites, quarries or even landfills of municipal solid waste (RSU). Sicily, for example, listed 36 of them, 34 of which were already in the regional plan of the Bonifiche, in which moreover the Marabusca district was not there, and for 20 out of 36 there is a safety emergency, intervention - as you know - not decisive. I ask you, then, whether it has been established for those sites or whether it is intended to be ascertained why they have not yet been reclaimed or whether the competent authorities have activated all the necessary checks on the intended responsibility for the eventual non-reclamation. Above all, I would like to ask you what organisational measures to combat mafia infiltrations and increase preventive checks have been envisaged against the high amounts of investment and considering that 50% of the total allocation is allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno, also in the light of the problematic nature of controls on companies that require registration or permanence in the so-called white lists. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u57	Mr President, the funds allocated under the Budget Act for 2019 for the reclamation of orphan sites, as identified, have been allocated between the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces according to the quotas identified and on the basis of specific allocation criteria, which provide that each Region, according to its own principles and in line with the plans already adopted for reclamation, will ensure the identification of these orphan sites. Similarly, EUR 500 million has been allocated with the PNRR for the reclamation of orphan sites (i.e. investment 3.4 of measure 2), including, as an intermediate milestone, the identification of these sites in all regions and autonomous provinces. Territorial authorities have therefore been identified as interlocutors in order to provide the necessary information, in view of the current regulatory framework, which gives them the competence to carry out the census, preparatory activities for the adoption of a specific action plan. The regulatory framework of the action plan is constituted by Article 17 of Decree-Law No 152 of 2021, according to which the information necessary for the preparation of the action plan referred to in Decree No 222 of 2021 is provided by the Regions. In addition, the actual qualification of orphan sites is attested by the proposing regions and verified during the investigation by the Ministry through a check list, according to the definition of orphan site referred to in the aforementioned Ministerial Decree of 2020 (the package is called programming of orphan sites). The orphan sites have therefore been identified through a process of consultation with the territorial administrations, which was started in July 2021, so the offices responsible of the Ministry asked the bodies to identify orphan sites to be retrained on their territory and related interventions. The proposals received by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces were first verified through specific meetings, based on elements such as consistency with the definitions and scope of the Ministerial Decree of 29 December 2020, the verification of the detail of the type of interventions planned, the necessary activities and the environmental matrixes covered by interventions, as well as the consistency between the description and the proposed intervention. In addition, they were assessed on the basis of the verification of the exceedance of the contamination threshold concentrations in the soil matrix, the verification of the activities under Article 242 of the Environmental Single Text already concluded and the consistency with the objectives and timing of the PNRR. This obviously concerns only the part of the PNRR that has very tight milestones, as you know perfectly well. The action plan for the redevelopment of orphan sites was sent to the unified conference for the prescribed understanding and was included on the agenda of 21 June next. Following the agreement of the conference, the relevant ministerial decree will be issued. Technically, if the agreement arrives on Tuesday, it could be signed in a matter of hours. With regard to measures to combat mafia infiltration, it is recalled that by Decree-Law 152 of 2021 on the implementation of the PNRR, measures have been envisaged to strengthen the anti-mafia prevention system, through rapid procedures and the introduction of forms of contradictory and collaborative prevention. The recent circular of the Ministry of the Interior, n. 38877, dated 13 June, with indications regarding the contrast of the mafia infiltrations in the context of the realization of the planning inherent in the PNRR, is also expected to be considered by all administrations on the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u58	Minister, I am not satisfied, not so much because I do not appreciate your reconstruction of all the bureaucratic process and also the good will that you express, but because in general - and I am not just referring to the activities that are the responsibility of your Ministry - I think that many words are being spent on the issue of combating the infiltrations of crime, which in fact remain words. You mentioned also the last circular of the Ministry of the Interior, which does not by chance call into question, inevitably, the prefectures, assigning them additional burdens and giving, if possible, additional responsibilities regarding the verifications: I am talking in particular about white lists. As you will know, however, the white list system, which I am absolutely in favour of, and I think it is an excellent tool, does not actually work. I happened to ask questions about, for example, the delay in verifying requests for inclusion in white list or even in staying on white list, which must be verified year by year, because there are prefectures such as that of Naples where there are firm and unanswered requests since 2016. This means that clearly no year-by-year verification has been carried out and therefore, on the basis of the simple request for registration, those firms are taking on assignments and are often the same ones who work on the Bonifice and who sometimes have, if they are not themselves, responsibility for pollution. Therefore, if the PNRR really indicates these sites as sites to be put back on the real estate market to save green areas, it is clear - in my opinion - that the effort that must be supported is first and foremost to give the prefectures more personal and dedicated staff. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Corrado. CORRADO (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, be patient. In conclusion, if the measures in question are to be implemented seriously, concrete action must be taken, not just in words.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u59	Senator Nastri has the right to explain the question 3-03391 on the increase in national production of natural gas, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u60	Minister, with this question, the Brothers of Italy Group once again asks for clarity on the strategic vision of the Government, if it exists, with regard to the issue of energy. It is clear to everyone that the Ukrainian Russian conflict and Europe's strong dependence on Russian gas have imposed on the Presidents of the European Union a change of strategy on energy policy, also in order to reduce dependence on Russia. All this is made even more evident by the enormous increase in energy costs in Italy, with serious social and employment repercussions, both for families and for businesses. The Government has launched a dialogue with several foreign states in order to conclude new agreements aimed at increasing the supply of gas from relatively safer countries, also because - it is news today - there has been a 40% reduction in supply. However, the Italian Government does not seem to want to continue along the path of national energy independence. According to recent data, the need for natural gas in Italy is about 70 billion cubic meters, and of these only 4.5 (less than 6%) is extracted in Italy that - as we all know - is also rich in methane deposits, but are unused precisely because of limits and prohibitions deriving from the moratorium of the blockade to drilling and extractions and also as regards bureaucracy. The recognition of natural gas as an energy source towards the ecological transition would certainly be a historic opportunity for our national deposits. Yet just a few days ago, Minister, MEPs of the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party opposed the Commission's proposal to include gas in the taxonomic list of renewable energy sources. For this reason, we are asking you, Minister, at the same time, what your opinion is, supported in European terms by Members representing certain parties of your majority on this subject, and especially if the Government intends to increase national gas production by renewing authorisations.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u61	The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u62	Senator Nastri, the subject is obviously divisive at national and European level, because the discussions are very broad. Personally, I completely disagree that we voted for the exclusion of gas as a means of transition; my position has been clear since I spoke about these issues and as I have shown in all the actions I have taken. Having said that, I have spent the last thirty-six hours monitoring the reduction of gas flows: 40 percent was what Gazprom said about capacities; fortunately, the real value is less, because you have to calculate the percentage on real flows. The situation is still under control, for other countries it is heavier. We will see what will happen in the next few days, because it could be a fluctuation induced by technical problems, of the type that do not arrive components for the sanctions for the pumping stations or could, instead, be a real - let's call it - retaliation of supply. We're monitoring closely with the operators. I think I can say without a question of being misunderstood that with recent actions we have accelerated the installation of renewables as never before happened. I think you read the connection data requested by Terna, which we put on the site: 5.3 gigawatts in the first five months of this year and about 3.7 in the next two years. It's all the stuff that already exists, that must be attacked, and therefore, surely we cannot be accused of not wanting the acceleration on renewables. Nevertheless, this is a part of the strategy that must lead us to the independence and energy security of the country. Therefore, I insist that the country must be strategically independent from the energy point of view. What does that mean? I confirm that a correct path has not been followed, because the switch from a gas production of 20% of the requirements in 2000 to 3.4% in 2020 did not coincide with an absolute reduction in gas and an environmental benefit; it coincided only with an increase in imports. Therefore, we had neither environmental advantage nor energy and economic advantage. I think we need to confirm, as all international trends require, the phase-out of the gas that will decrease. But - be careful - I would like a future in which - yes - we reduce the use of gas, but in which what we will continue to serve is as much as possible produced in complete independence at national level. From my point of view, since a war has started in the meantime that has completely changed the world energy landscape, perhaps it is time to review and analyze the Pitesai again in the light of what is happening, trying to combine the two things, which are combinable: reduction of the total gas and at the same time increase of the gas that we will need from our deposits. In this way, the course of decarbonisation is maintained at 55%, but Italy is made safer and more stable from the energy point of view. I will endeavour to do this in the coming times and hope to succeed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Nastri to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u63	Minister, in the light of your answers, we continue to be perplexed, because promises are not enough - we have been waiting for you for too many months now - but real and concrete legislative measures are needed to remove the ideological stop to the extractions. We know that Italy is heavily dependent on the import of gas - as you said before - but, thanks to its resources, dependence could be reduced. You see, Minister, families and businesses are paying a very high price, so that many companies risk closure and failure, thus creating further unemployment. Instead, we must note that this Government moves in perfect continuity, I would say also in perfect harmony with the precedents, because it is clearly slave to an ideological drift, as we saw in the vote a few days ago, even if you did not want to say something more; it was obvious, because the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars voted against. This is definitely not good. You have also claimed the name of the Government of the Best, but day after day we realize that instead you are the Government of the Bestists. Therefore, it must be removed, Minister, the illogical stop to the new extractions that lead, precisely, to the upper Adriatic. And then you did not say anything, Minister, about an absurd situation, that of Croatia, which takes advantage of our immobility and manages to do everything. We are not satisfied with your answer, because, Minister, the difference between us and the rest of the world is - in our opinion - the priority given to defending the interests of Italians. So we will continue this battle because, if the answers are given in this way, we will clearly never be satisfied. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u64	Senator Ferrari has the right to explain the question 3-03392 on the serious drought of the Po basin, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u65	Mr. Minister, let's talk about the very serious crisis that the Po's water basin is experiencing. The heat wave combined with the continuous drought that has hit Italy in the last month represents only the tail of an extremely complicated weather year for our country, which is having with all evidence serious repercussions on the environment and agriculture, in particular on the Po water basin, the most important of the country, also for the succession of a series of events and exceptional phenomena: for example, a snowy accumulation to the historical minima throughout the period from January to today; the hydrometric level of the lakes constantly close to the minima; a consequent depression of the groundwater. Lake Maggiore, for example, is now only 15 centimeters away from an invading capacity of 150 centimeters. The data collected by the agricultural, agri-food and environmental associations confirm the exceptional nature of the situation and provide, moreover, with the approaching summer, a further deterioration. Similarly, this route is also indicated by the monthly bulletins of the permanent observatory on the water use of the Po river district in terms of water flow, hydrometric levels, rain, temperature, saline intrusion, snowy accumulations and accumulations of water in lakes and mountain invades; as well as, again, a specific study on the genesis of the drought of 2020, elaborated by Confagricoltura Pavia, with a look at the effects that such drought has on the agricultural system Padano. The same permanent observatory on water crises, convened at the end of May and then again on 10 June by the district authorities of the Po River, stated that the severity of the current drought levels, in fact, leads us to see that the current crisis is the worst crisis for seventy years to the present. In short, this is the reality, a very clear reality in its gravity, and it is equally clear that immediate and exceptional initiatives are needed. Therefore, we ask you whether you are considering proposing the adoption of the state of emergency, also ensuring the allocation of appropriate resources to deal with damage to the environment, agricultural enterprises and agri-food production; whether you are going to set up an emergency management table that is addressed, in addition to the other ministries involved, also to the Po basin authority, the regions, the regulators of the pre-Alpine lakes, the national associations of the reclamation consortia, the agricultural associations and so on; if you are considering, finally, appropriate initiatives to facilitate the adoption of specific derogations on the concessions of public water derivation or other urgent initiatives aimed at preventing the further feared worsening of the situation. [[Applause from Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u66	The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u67	Senator Ferrari, the hydrometeorological situation at national level - as you can imagine - is being closely monitored at this time by permanent observers on water uses, who have been established at the District Basin Authorities with interinstitutional understanding protocols, along with the competent central and local administrations. Observers also operate as a directing cabin for the forecasting and management of water scarcity and drought events, the activities of which are defined, depending on the various water severity scenarios, according to a criterion of proportionality and efficiency. Of course - as you said - this is one of the worst scenarios that can be predicted. Observers shall provide information and operational support to contribute to the definition of decisions for the management of any emergency by the national civil protection bodies to which this action belongs, and by the other competent authorities involved. Precisely in the case of a scenario of high water severity, despite the adoption of all preventive measures, there can be critical states that are not predictable, in which the water resource is not sufficient to avoid damage to the system; on this we must intervene with special measures. Given the importance of these structures, we are strengthening monitoring on the issue of water scarcity. The National Coordination Committee for Observers was set up to ensure effective and effective action throughout the national territory. To respond specifically to your question, we are setting up the political-institutional table of another profile in the presence of all the national Basin Authorities, to seize all the opportunities and proposals for intervention at national level and to make a picture of the whole scale of the country. As regards actions to combat drought and water scarcity, I can assure you that attention is constant. There are more structural initiatives, such as the strengthening of the water balance management tools to support observatories and district hydraulic authorities or investments in infrastructure works both within the PNRR and through the instrument of the National Plan of interventions in the water sector, currently under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility and which has been incorporated, to avoid overlaps, precisely in the PNRR. Here we anticipate actions aimed at increasing the security of water supply of important urban areas, the security and resilience of networks, including adaptation to climate change and resource transport capacity. Two significant examples are a strong investment in reducing losses, which exceed 40 percent on 24,000 kilometers of pipeline (so they are substantial), and a strengthening of the rainwater collection, creating a number of basins. I think you know better than I that there is an inability to collect rainwater that is endemic and that we have to solve; a quarter of the national rainfall would be enough to fix the agricultural needs. We are taking immediate action on this with the new projects of the PNRR. As far as the Po district is concerned, interventions are planned to mitigate the phenomenon of drought and water crises, with additional and PNRR resources, for a total value of 480 million euros. The first 360 million have already been allocated with the Po's renewal programme. Further interventions are planned by the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which has long started a massive investment programme aimed at the efficiency of the infrastructure used for the accumulation and distribution of water for irrigation purposes. It is clear that from the table we are setting up all indications for any other more emergency actions will come out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ferrari has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u68	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply and also for grasping the urgency of intervention and the appropriate complexity that you need in your reply. Two are the directions. The first is that this is such a complex issue that it cannot be solved except by the maximum coordination of all the bodies and bodies in charge; the second is that the remaining part of the design on water resources foreseen in the PNRR must also be an opportunity to take into account the fact that the world is changing and perhaps has already changed. The current serious water crisis confronts us with a reality. Perhaps the world has already changed since two years ago, when the PNRR approach was adopted. I say this in particular with regard to the first point, namely the need for coordination. In recent weeks, we have seen institutional initiatives that are somewhat timid on the part of the local institutions. The blame must not and cannot fall on anyone, but there must be an investment of real responsibility to the full. In the Padan fields corn is being harvested at a height of 1.40 meters, when the average height is about 3 meters. This gives a sense of the gravity of what is happening in the largest water basin in the country. Even so, let me conclude by saying that water is a valuable asset for the environmental ecosystem, for agriculture and - as we have seen in recent months - also for energy. There is a need for rapid policy choices that do not require choosing which of these three uses to use water. An important country like Italy can only co-exist the three dimensions of use: environment, agriculture and energy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u69	Senator Gallone has the right to explain the question 3-03395 on the impact of the ecological transition process in transport for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u70	Mr Cingolani, on behalf of Forza Italia, also through this question, we express our concern about the European Parliament's decision to block, from 2035, the sale of non-electric vehicles, putting at serious risk a vital sector for the Italian economy. Europe's approach to the Fit for 55 is unacceptable for Forza Italia, because it would result in the loss of at least 70 000 jobs and the risk of being invaded by countries outside Europe that would continue to use coal-fired power plants to produce lithium batteries. We consider this peremptory choice absolutely not consistent with the principles of proper ecological and energy transition, which must take place in the most rational and coherent times and ways, supporting and enhancing, if anything, the new technologies, research and innovation for sustainable development, by putting itself at the side of our geniuses. And we who have always been truly on the side of businesses, workers and families do not give up, in the precise conviction that there can be no environmental sustainability without economic and social sustainability. And, in order to ensure the protection of the environment, we cannot limit ourselves to demagogic impositions, which are dangerous for social well-being, but we must put in place all kinds of support for the research and development of technological innovation, the only possible solution to guarantee social and economic well-being alongside the necessary environmental sustainability. We will not stop, and even today, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group in the Senate, as we did yesterday in the House, we ask you to intervene forcefully with the European institutions so that they can review their orientation, because it takes more time and graduality to activate this radical revolution in order to implement simultaneously policies in support of the automotive chain, in order to support the conversion of plants and new business potential. None of us is against electricity, but we support the need for an energy mix consistent with the principle of technological neutrality. Forza Italia will continue to be at the forefront of this battle to block the dangerous decision of Europe, but it is essential that the Government on this point is compact in overcoming ideological resistances that would have catastrophic consequences on an entire sector made by countless chains and on thousands of Italian families. We are confident because we have heard you say words such as flexibility and realism, because the environment protects itself with progress and innovation, not going back. Therefore, we ask what the Government's commitment is so that this decision, which we believe to be wrong and risky, can be rationally modified. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u71	Mr President, the measures included in the Fit for 55 package, including the transport package, are - as you know - under discussion at Community level in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, with the so-called codecision process. On this subject, at least at national level, broad coordination has been achieved, with a shared position within the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition, the ISCED, in which the various Departments - economic development, infrastructure and sustainable mobility and the MITE itself - have held a series of consultations with the social and economic partners involved in order to be able to count on elements of flexibility and, precisely, realism that allow to face the necessary transition by minimizing the social and economic costs associated with the transition itself. With reference to the proposed revision of the EU Regulation, the Italian position focused on maintaining the derogation for producers of small volumes, as well as on maintaining the current curve of distribution of the European target of reduction among manufacturers of light commercial vehicles - we have dialogue with the manufacturers: for them it is more important how we arrive that the arrival date, that is the so-called curve, and this was a fundamental objective - in order to take into account the technical specificities and the peculiarities of the heavier vans that, known, do not lend themselves to be electrified because they should basically bring them batteries, given the load capacity and the weight of the batteries. In addition, it focused on the demand for differentiated reduction targets for cars and vans, as well as on the recognition of the contribution of renewable fuels in the transition period, to access a slightly slower and more flexible decarbonisation of the automotive sector. It is important to stress that, during the plenary session of the European Parliament on 8 June, two mandates were voted in favour of the Italian position with respect to the original proposal: the maintenance of the derogation for small manufacturers and small volumes and the restoration of the objective distribution curve for vans. These are, therefore, two out of three proposals, to be clear. On the industrial policy front it is specified that, with Decree-Law No 17 of 2022, a fund of 700 million euros has been established at the Ministry of Economic Development for the current year and one billion euros each for the years 2023 to 2050, aimed at green transition, research and investments in the automotive sector and the development of sustainable innovative production forms. I would like to point out that there is ongoing dialogue with both the Commission and the French Presidency, with a view to clarifying how the Italian positions do not reduce the ambition of the proposal, but are designed to include appropriate flexibility that can accompany the Member States in the decarbonisation process, enabling them to achieve the objectives outlined by the measure without creating serious stress to the production and socio-economic system, in particular the automotive sector. The action I have been talking about continues: at the end of the month we have the ministerial meeting on the environment and the debate is under way. Because I have time limits, for the moment I am answering this question, knowing that one on a similar subject will follow shortly after, to which I will add some considerations that may complement the picture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gallone has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u72	Thank you very much Minister Cingolani, because your answer confirms the maintenance of the hope of achieving a shared goal in the name of the protection of our country system and environmental protection. In 2022 we must be able to be ambitious and to pursue social well-being and environmental protection together. I now return from the funeral of an enlightened man, Domenico Bosatelli, who has never stopped believing in man's intelligence. He said that luck is there when a talent finds an opportunity by following an ideal and generating a responsibility. I took this view as a sign. In Italy we have talents to meet the opportunities: I am referring, for example, to those who are working on renewable fuels that, in combination with the hybrid traction system, could ensure that the transition on mobility can also take place in technological neutrality. In fact, binding only to electric cars would mean that we are still connected to gas, because in Italy without nuclear energy we could not have the possibility to produce the electricity needed and, therefore, we should necessarily resort to countries outside Europe also for batteries. We are therefore heartened to hear from his voice, as we look into our eyes, passages on the introduction of flexibility in the conviction of the need for the sacred principle enshrined also in the green deal we are pursuing - if we do not want green to become black - according to which no one must be left behind. We reiterate that, if the measure remained so, 70,000 jobs would be lost only in the manufacturing sector. Therefore, the two amendments are good, as well as everything that has been put to the ground for research. I therefore call on Mr Cingolani, together with the whole Government, to make the greatest efforts in the relevant bodies, in the Council of Environment Ministers and in the Commission to convince Europe not to harm itself, but above all not to harm us.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u73	Senator Pazzaglini has the right to explain the question 3-03394 on the strategy for decarbonisation in the automotive sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u74	Minister, with the Fit for 55 package, formalized by the European Commission on 14 July 2021, with the aim of revising much of the current legislation on climate and energy, the European Union has set itself the ambitious target of reducing emissions of newly registered cars by 55% by 2030 compared to 2021 and 100% by 2035. On the occasion of the information presented in Parliament with a view to the meeting of Energy and Environment Ministers of the G7 in Berlin last May, Minister Cingolani reported on a strong commitment of the G7 countries to support decarbonisation in the transport sector, as a significant contribution to the reduction of emissions in order to maintain the increase of the temperature within the degree and half centigrade. The Minister reiterated the Italian position in favour of a rapid decarbonisation of the automotive sector, but highlighted the need to identify diversified timing between light vehicles and heavy vehicles, in order to allow an ambitious, but just, transition to national specificities regarding the development of the necessary infrastructure, the adaptation of the production system to new technologies, the importance of focusing also on other sustainable fuels and innovative technologies. However, with regard to the Fit for 55 package of measures, the European Parliament, at its recent meeting on 8 June 2022, approved the ban on the sale of internal combustion cars from 2035, as a priority contribution to the 55% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2030, with a view to achieving the Union's climate neutrality by 2050 as dictated by the European Green Deal Roadmap. This will mean that in the immediate future only the sale of electric cars in Europe will be allowed, considered by the EU a virtually exclusive solution to the sustainable transport of the Union, demonstrating an ideological and demagogic approach to the ecological transition. Given that the Italian automotive sector is worth 5.6 percent of national GDP and employs over 250,000 employees, representing an excellence on the world scene also in terms of avant-garde and technological innovation and therefore of environmental sustainability, it is clear that the measure will result in an important alteration in the sector and in the economies of the countries. Europe is still far from being independent of non-EU economies as regards the availability of raw materials, their ability to transform and create all the components necessary for the construction of the vehicle. Since I believe that my time is running out, I come directly to the question. It is asked to know which measures the Minister in address intends to put in place at national and European level to counter the ideological approach undertaken by the EU to achieve climate neutrality, through drastic and utopian measures in the field of electric automotive, one of the main national excellences and to promote a true sustainable ecological transition in the short and long term, allowing with a gradual approach the holding of the country's economic system in achieving the ambitious goals of climate neutrality of the EU, responding to the commitment of the Minister himself to ensure an ambitious, but just, transition on national specificities and the importance of focusing also on other sustainable fuels and innovative technologies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u75	The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u76	Mr President, what I said earlier is complete with a series of information, perhaps a little more technical, and I hope that they will give an exhaustive picture. We have 12 million vehicles not Euro 6, from Euro 0 to Euro 4, on a park of about 40 million and this only in Italy. It is clear that stimulating the transition of these vehicles to EUR 6 or hybrid cars at the moment has an excellent effect from the point of view of decarbonisation, even more than changing the euro 6 with the electric for those who can afford it, taking into account also the costs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I'm sorry, but maybe I should have made a promise. You understand that 27 Member States, including three to four large producers (among them us) and others are buyers, also have different demands. We had to find a compromise at international level, because France, Germany and Italy, who build a large supply chain, spoke of 2035 and 2040 for the vans. Those who do not build and buy wanted in some cases the switch to electric in 2027-2028, because it is clear that for them it is almost counterproductive to prolong. In short, it is a complex situation, it is useless to hide it, in which compromises will have to be found. I should have told you right away, but I guess that was clear. There is also a second point that I will mention in the Environment Ministerial. Even if they gave everyone an electric car, right now we should recharge the batteries to renewable electricity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and FIBP-UDC]] Technically it is necessary to increase the supply of green renewable energy at the same time as the demand for systems using this energy. It's okay if they give it to us, but we really have to have green electricity, which is growing very fast and anyway it's a matter of a few years. Thirdly, let's remember that there is an intermediate passage, hybrid and hybrid plug-in, which represents a bit in motorism the Darwinian link of conjunction between man and the monkey, which should instead be valued at this time to lower the CO2 produced per kilometer. Finally, I would like to point out that the principle of technological neutrality - and we are pushing very hard on this - suggests two things: firstly, be careful not to fall into the hands of a market that is not ours. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , so be careful that the park is not all based on it, so as not to be slaves to other markets; at the same time, we pushed with a norm - which, as you know, has been approved - according to which from next year 500,000 tons of synthetic fuel will be released ready to pump and for the engine, addable of 100,000 tons each year, in the following years. We are fighting for this, because it is also a way to recondition a section of the petrochemical that has to find green roads; with the synthetic fuel decarbonizes between 60 and 90 percent for the same engine and pump. Why do I say that? We will repeat, insist and enforce our ideas with numbers, showing that the right transition is not only based on grams of CO2 per kilometre, but also on how much labour and how much model we can convert, lowering CO2. Nobody is discussing the 55% target by 2030 or anything else; we are discussing how to get there with technological neutrality. I therefore believe that these will be the arguments which, together with what I previously replied to Senator Gallone, should allow us to say ours. It's a complex battle, like it was for the gas price cap, to be very clear. We will do our best and the next Council of Ministers will be an opportunity to reaffirm the need to adopt compromise solutions and to safeguard the principle of technological neutrality, in order to ensure the appropriate transition, fair and balanced from the different, but common needs of European partners, which must demonstrate that the ambition of reducing emissions and economic development are two compatible objectives. I will do everything I can: then, you will understand that we are 27 countries voting and I hope that they will listen to us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u77	Senator Pazzaglini may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u78	Mr Minister, I agree with everything you have said, partly because I have said the same things several times in the past, but I cannot say that I am completely satisfied with the answer, because on the point that was a priority for me, that is to say the employment and rescue of our national industry, in fact it did not say anything at all. Previously, when I spoke of 5,6% of GDP, I was obviously only referring to what comes directly from the sector; then, if we were to talk about induced, we would get higher figures. This clearly can only be a priority. With regard to the criterion of technological neutrality, I claim its birthright in the political debate, because, as soon as the Draghi Government was born, in the Environment Commission, I pointed out that, being a very heterogeneous majority, the only common sense approach not dogmatic, nor ideological, but exclusively of common sense was precisely technological neutrality, an approach that in reality did not exist. In our intentions, yes, we all probably share it, but then in reality, especially in European politics, that is not the case. I would therefore ask you again, Minister, since you have just said that you share this suggestion that I had allowed myself to move forward to the Environment Commission a year and a half ago, to continue strongly to support it, because, as you said earlier, there are technological alternatives, but we will not save the environment by preventing the possibility of science, which is proving that precisely these alternatives are there. Let us put the problem as a policy, but let us leave it to science to find the answer: only in this way can we be sure that we will do what we can to improve the situation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u79	The Senator Fourthly, I would like to explain the question 3-03388 on the geological and geothematic mapping project for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u80	Mr President, kind Minister, Italy has a geologically fragile territory, because it is located in a very active and complex geodynamic environment. This results in high-energy earthquakes, explosive volcanism, hydrogeological disruptions, amplified by ongoing climate change, and toxic gas emissions. These natural phenomena, given the considerable vulnerability of the built and the intense anthropization of the country, lead to a very high risk that often sees us succumbed with destruction and victims. We must defend ourselves. The winning strategy is the mitigation, reduction and prevention of risks, but to do this is indispensable a detailed geological knowledge of the territory, among other things necessary also for the sustainable management of natural resources and renewable energies. It is noted that there is the Carg project, coordinated by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), for the realization of the geological map at scale 1 to 50,000, with its database; this project began at the end of the eighties, suffering severe delays for an incomprehensible twenty-year interruption of its funds; the financing is then resumed with the budget law of 2020 and implemented in the following two, with a total budget of 31 million euros up to the whole 2022. This allowed ISPRA a vigorous recovery with the start of 69 geological sheets, over 10%. Given that, given the available research facilities, it takes at least ten years to complete the Carg project and that if it is not financed by the next budget law, it will be an intolerable delay and even a deleterious arrest, among other things frustrating a complex and superlative work of reconstruction of the operating structure of ISPRA; on 26 April last the Senate approved an agenda that commits the Government to identify in the next budget law the funds necessary for the completion of the Carg project, with its hydrogeological thematic mapping, with the commitment of expenditure to current legislation of 20 million euros a year, from 2023 to 2033, it is asked to know if and how the Minister intends to take action for the completion of the Carg project. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u81	The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u82	Mr President, for those who listen to us and perhaps have not followed the story of the map, I note that the importance of the three-dimensional maps and geological models of the subsoil at this time is becoming capital. The geological map provides information on the structural nature and stratigraphic structure of the subsoil. These maps are essential for the management of urban areas, infrastructure and geothermal and water resources. Just this morning there was a convention on geothermal energy for extraction materials, for the management of reclamation sites, energy storage, geological storage of CO2, seismic activities. I believe that there is broad agreement that this is an instrument of which a country like Italy, however critical from the point of view of geology, must be endowed. With the appropriations that have taken up, as you said just now, the Carg project has begun again, allowing the involvement of all regions and autonomous provinces, universities and the National Research Council (CNR). Between 2020 and 2021 25 conventions were concluded with all Regions and Autonomous Provinces. Of course, if there is no convention, it is not possible to operate on the territory. So a convention means having access to data and measures. As many conventions have been made with the universities and the CNR and started 44 geological sheets with 16 three-dimensional models of subsoil, 10 underwater areas (9 marine and a lake) and a geomorphological sheet. We will have to improve in this last area. In the last quarter of 2021, the geologists of ISPRA started the survey of three more geological sheets. The resources foreseen for 2022 have allowed ISPRA to conclude 23 additional conventions and the launch of 19 geological sheets and 4 geothematics, for a total of 69 geological sheets over the three years 2020-2022, thanks to which we have exceeded 50% of national territorial coverage. More can be done, but the recovery is actually measurable. Given that the funding allowed ISPRA to consolidate the activities, it is evident that with the budget law 2022 additional € 6 million have been allocated for the continuation of the realization of geothematic maps. It should be clarified that with regard to hydrogeological risk mitigation instruments, with PNRR resources, measure M2C4 has been included the implementation of a review of the national repertoire of ground protection interventions, which is already foreseen between the actions and objectives of the Italian Land Security Plan. As far as I am concerned, I will try to ensure that this funding is continued; we will then discuss what investment will allow us to continue, also because at the beginning we need more money, then, on a regular basis, we can see that we find a good compromise; but I am committed to ensuring that the repertoire continues and that the operation is completed from the next budget law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Quarto to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u83	Minister, thank you for your promise of continuity. I am satisfied, but I would just like to point out one aspect, namely that the 6 million of the last funding is the result of an expenditure commitment from the Parliamentary part of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is our amendment to our share. Since the geological map is a sophisticated multidisciplinary research product, as well as completed, however, it must be updated. There are Carg papers already about forty years old: an eternity for scientific progress, and we cannot stop research. The Carg project, then, includes geothematic sheets and three-dimensional geological models indispensable for applications of high socio-economic impact, what you mentioned, Minister. In addition, geological knowledge is fundamental to their targeted prevention for large risks. Preventing, as well as saving life, costs four times less than repairing the damage of hydrogeological failure and ten times less than post-sysm reconstructions. Only the last three major earthquakes have upset vast areas with 628 deaths and damage for 44 billion euros. Many people call them natural disasters: nothing more wrong. In fact, in this axiom there are two great mistakes: the intense phenomenon is confused with the catastrophic effect and a message of inevitableness of the induced disaster is given. Natural disasters do not exist; there is a dangerous natural phenomenon with the risk of it creating a catastrophe; the catastrophe is caused by human neglect. Complete and update the geological mapping is a necessary act to break down the wall of carelessness in the belief that, without security, there can be no ecological transition or even sustainable development. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u84	Senator Sbrollini has the right to explain the question 3-03390 on the remuneration of students enrolled in medical specialization schools in the years 1983-1991, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u85	Mrs. Minister, the training of a specialist doctor is one of the essential moments for the learning of the medical profession. The recent experience of Covid teaches us how important proper medical preparation is to deal with the most diverse - and sometimes even unpredictable - emergencies. Compared to this, the issue I intend to submit to you concerns precisely the situation that shows significant differences in treatment between residents enrolled in different years of course. I am talking about the situation in which a large number of doctors have been admitted to specialization schools in the years 1983 to 1991, who have not been able to benefit from adequate compensation for those years. On this point, I would point out that Article 13 of Council Directive 82/76/EEC introduced an obligation for Member States to ensure adequate remuneration for the training of specialists. However, although the Member States were required to comply with this Directive by 31 December 1982, the Italian State was only adapting its legislation in 1991, with eight years' delay, by means of the legislative decree of 8 August 1991, n. 257, while recognising the scholarship to medical specialists only from 1991 onwards, and not providing anything for the residents of previous years. If, therefore, the legislator has remedyed the grants for the years from 1991 onwards, nothing was expected, however, for those who registered in the years 1983 to 1991. It is clear that in an attempt to remedy, however, the legislator has actually maintained an unfair situation of unequal treatment between the members of the various annual courses. Madam Minister, we therefore ask you what urgent steps you intend to take, also in the light of the judgment given, in consultation with the Presidency of the Council, in order to fully implement the 1982 directive, following the indications of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Commission, avoiding the possible infringement of the Italian State in relation to decisions taken by the European institutions and, above all, allowing doctors resident in those years to benefit from the same rights and appropriate remuneration, which has been denied them for too long.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u86	The Minister for University and Research, Professor Mass, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u87	Senator Sbrollini, the Ministry is aware of the question you have raised and also of this last intervention by the Court of Justice, which has specified the subjective scope of Directive 82/76/EEC. Directive 82/76/EEC of 26 January 1982 recognised the obligation for Member States, as it said, to pay adequate remuneration to medical specialists throughout their post-university specialization courses. At the time of adaptation, however, in domestic law, there was a criticality regarding the identification of the recipients of this provision, both because of the late transposition of European legislation by the Italian legislator (true), and in relation to the identification of the period of application of that provision. The judgment of the Court of Justice of 3 March 2022 made it clear that the relevant provisions must be interpreted as meaning that any full-time or reduced training as a specialist doctor, which began before the entry into force of the Directive, i.e. 19 January 1982, and continued after the expiry of the transposition of the Directive, therefore on 1 January 1983, must be the subject of an appropriate remuneration for the period of such training, but which is obviously from 1 January 1983. The judgment shows, therefore, that the right conferred by the directive in question is the responsibility of all those who have attended a course of medical specialization, even if registered before 29 January 1982, but this remuneration covers the period starting from 1 January 1983 until the end. Given this, it is not intended to imply that this ruling of the Court of Justice, in a different way from the previous approach, which is sufficiently consolidated at national level, now determines an expectation on the part of a particularly important number of interested parties and, therefore, the impact of the effects of this decision is difficult to assess, both in terms of resources, and because it concerns facts dating back to time that, therefore, do not allow an easy definition of the audience of potentially beneficiaries. This does not mean at all that this Ministry should be exempted from engaging, together with the other competent administrations, in order to promote any useful initiative to remedy the reported issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the power to respond to Senator Sbrollini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u88	Mrs. Minister, you are right and we know that hundreds of thousands of doctors are still in this situation. As you rightly said, we are also convinced that it is right to recognise an economic contribution and a right to these people. It is therefore necessary to take appropriate action to ensure that this right is guaranteed to all those who find themselves in the situation outlined by the Court of Justice, without discrimination. In conclusion, I believe that the intervention of the Court of Justice creates the legal conditions for a new orientation of the National Courts called upon to rule in the cases precisely due to the failure of the Italian State to implement the European directives on this matter. So thank you and I am satisfied. We will certainly continue to follow this situation with you, which unfortunately has been going on for too many years, and we really hope to do justice to the end. [[Applause from Senator Carbone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u89	Senator De Petris has the right to explain question 3-03386 on the introduction of measures to combat irregularities in university competitions for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u90	Mrs. Minister, as you know, in recent weeks university competitions have become the subject of news in many press bodies, precisely because of complaints of irregularities and piloted competitions (in some cases much more than complaints). The numbers are of weight: 191 people, between permanent and precarious researchers, associate and ordinary professors, department directors, directors and rectors, have been investigated in recent times for fairly serious crimes, connected exactly to the issue of piloted competitions. We know perfectly well that these events are not new, but they are events that over time have reached the level of the complaint and have also been the subject of journalistic investigations. In particular, in recent times there has been a concentration of complaints and increasingly alarming episodes. Perhaps never in the history of the Italian academy had a judicial fire opened so marked towards an institution that is decisive for the development of the country; also the credibility of this institution is absolutely decisive. We believe that there is an urgent need to review the system of university recruitment, for example by setting up a competition control committee, to monitor and understand the selection criteria, so that they are not, as unfortunately sometimes happens (too often), modelled ad personam. We believe that the university, as is well known, is almost a thousand-year-old European conquest; we are the inventors of this institution, which is and is, never as at this time, a vital impulse for the economy and cultural richness of the territory. We therefore ask you to know whether you, Minister, intend to take legislative initiatives or take specific measures to ensure full compliance with the criteria for comparative evaluation procedures, such as those set out in Article 24 of Law No 240 of 2010, for the allocation of fixed-term university research posts and associate and ordinary professors in state and free universities, in order to ensure a correct, meritorious and transparent evaluation of candidates. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for University and Research, Professor Mass, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u91	Mr President, Senator De Petris, this is an extremely hot and important issue, which I do not discuss in legal terms, because it is for the judiciary. I have to say that it is very important that we address this issue today, which has actually been the subject of reflection for some time now. You know that in Parliament there is already work done with Law No. 2285, approved by the House and now before the Senate, which also intervened on the subject of research competitions. In the light of the objectives and timing of the PNRR, as you know, it has been decided to anticipate part of this work on the pre-university role figures, including these provisions in the procedure you now have in conversion (Decree-PRR two law). However, the part concerning the composition of the competition commissions, which has not been excluded, must be addressed at this point in general, not only with regard to researchers, but also with regard to associate and ordinary professors. It is a pleasure to inform you that, with this more ambitious objective, a broad spectrum reflection is under way, which will soon lead to a proposal that will cover all university career selection procedures, including, in particular, the recruitment of first and second-class teachers. There are two fundamental principles from which we cannot ignore the proposals that we will make you: the first is the need to review the local tests, making them open, accessible and competitive (open means that everyone can hear them). The other aspect relates to the introduction of more stringent recruitment evaluation mechanisms carried out by the university, so as to provide incentives to recruit well, aimed at benefiting those who establish good practice in this respect. I would like to remind you that the university system has been the target of a great effort by this Government and Parliament in the last budget law, precisely to reverse the historic trend of de-financing research. We have started flows of resources, also ensuring over time a progressive increase in recruitment to the university, which will increase, for the first time in a long time, with an extraordinary progressive plan. Therefore, an intervention on competitions cannot be limited to the procedures for selecting teachers, but must involve a serious evaluation activity also ex post, which Italy is not used to. This evaluation should be based on the quality of the recruitment carried out and proven through the evaluation of a number of factors such as the contribution given by the recruiter or the recruiter to the university under broad spectrum: from scientific production to the effectiveness of teaching - because it is necessary to know how to teach - from the effectiveness of training, to the attraction of resources through competitive calls, to the impacts of the exploitation of research. I am very aware that attention to recruitment is an important value, particularly at this stage, and that we need a great deal of responsibility. Surely there will be the commitment of the Government and the Ministry, but I believe of all the political forces of Parliament, in addition to the commitment and responsibility of the actors involved - then of the university, the professors and the professors - in undertaking this path, but always for the benefit of our main targets that are the students and the students. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u92	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for giving us very important indications and the framework of commitments he has outlined for us is valuable. At this very moment we are discussing a decree concerning researchers and we are fully aware that we must work not only to intervene, but also because the message that reaches students and the public is crucial. It is essential to review the criteria for recruitment procedures and I believe that what you said earlier on on the issue of ex post evaluation is equally important. We must make a great effort to start a process of very high qualification of our university, because it is really a central element, not only today, in the phase of PNRR, but also because it is fundamental for the development of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u93	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u96	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, on Tuesday, during the debate on this measure, in the presence of the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure, I mentioned the fact, which I pointed out several times in the questions, that there is a senior manager of the Ministry of Infrastructure - whose name I am now saying: Happy Morisco, since it has already been done also by the Vice Minister - who for twenty-five years, at the Ministry or equivalent structures, deals with motorway concessions. This is clearly contrary to the rotation provided for by the anti-corruption law; moreover, it has recently signed documents that constitute immense gifts worth billions or otherwise hundreds of millions in favour of motorway dealers. This is precisely the condition that anti-corruption law is meant to avoid. Deputy Minister Bellanova replied that the position of summit regarding motorway concessions has changed over the years. Yeah, but I didn't say that. I had said that that individual person is signing documents that make huge gifts to motorway dealers, for example by granting them 100 percent refreshment from even minimum reductions in turnover in the Covid period, while all other companies have at most 10 percent refreshment or 20 percent in some cases. I have also stressed the fact that this person has been in that position for twenty-five years, as can be seen from the curriculum vitae he himself evidently compiled, which states that from 1997 to 2011 he has carried out the activity of evaluating the feasibility of the financial plans related to the motorway concessions, while in the period 2011-2012 he was manager at the economic and financial analysis unit, carrying out activities related to the supervision of the motorway concessions and so on until he is the maximum manager on the motorway concessions. Deputy Minister Bellanova also said that if there are questions, it will be the Government's duty to answer them. There have been questions for years and the Government is opposed to what Vice-President Bellanova herself rightly said to be a specific duty. In order not to make a very boring list of numbers, I will hand over the list of main questions that have no answer, not least because to list them all would go beyond the times that you, Mr President, are kindly granting me.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u97	Senator Malan, you can turn him in. The Presidency will forward it to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-441.ana.u99	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 20 June, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.18 p.m.
