ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.05 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2646. The rapporteurs, Senators Paroli and Santillo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Santillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u5	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this Decree-Law contains interventions in a number of areas covered by the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. Consistent with the objectives of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and in continuity with the measures introduced by Decree-Law No 121 of 2021, the measure provides for the further simplification of administrative and authorisation procedures aimed at accelerating the implementation of sustainable and resilient works. It also contains provisions aimed at testing new forms of mobility and enhancing and improving the planning of local public transport services. Further objectives are then those to improve the road safety and the transport services, to facilitate the realization of the water infrastructures and to strengthen the relative control, let alone to facilitate the infrastructural investments in the cities of Rome, in sight of the Jubilee 2025, and of Venice, in order to upgrade the crocieristico traffic, safeguarding at the same time to the protection of the lagoon. It consists of thirteen articles. Article 1 contains measures to accelerate procedures for the realization of works for the roadway of the city of Rome and the Jubilee of the Catholic Church of 2025. Article 2 lays down urgent measures for the construction, maintenance and safety of dams and for monitoring their operation; in particular, it amends the approval procedure and the content of the Regulation governing the procedure for approving projects and monitoring the construction and operation of dams and allocates resources for the recognition of incentives to the employees of the Ministry of Infrastructure who perform specific functions of technical supervision over the work and the operation of dams and related works, as well as for the investigation of projects and safety assessment. Article 3 contains measures for the infrastructural adaptation of the Harbour offices of the Carabinieri Arm and the Finance Guard. It establishes a fund in order to assure the functionality of the Harbour offices, also through the realization of participations to be carried out in an ultra-ten years period for the construction of new centers and infrastructures, the restructure, the widening, the completion and the execution of extraordinary participations; the energetic efficiency, the purchase of the relative furnishings and the anti-seismic improvement of those already existing, besides the annexed appliances. The provisions of the 2021 Decree-Law simplifications for works included in the PNRR apply to the assignment of the works. It also modifies the discipline laid down by the budget law for 2022 for the construction of barracks for the Carabinieri's Weapon and the Finance Guard. Article 4 contains urgent measures in the field of maritime passenger transport and infrastructure, port and lagoon adjustments. In order to guarantee the development of the crocieristica activity 2022 in the lagoon of Venice, after that the decree-law n. 103 of 2021 has interdict the passage of the great ships in the canal of the Giudecca and in the basin of San Marco, the extraordinary Commissioner for the realization of temporary landing places and complementary participations for the safeguard of Venice and its lagoon is authorized to realize an ulterior point of temporary berth, destined also to the ships used to transport passengers of tonnage greater than 25.000 GT, in the area of Chioggia. Moreover resources are allocated in favor of the Authority of harbour system of the eastern Adriatic sea for the functional and structural adaptation of the docks of the ports of Monfalcone and Trieste and they make modifications to the discipline of the Authority for the lagoon of Venice, that it is renamed Authority for the lagoon of Venice - New magistrate to the waters. Article 5 contains urgent provisions for the functionality of the cable car plant in Savona, inter alia extending the period during which the allowance may be paid equal to the extraordinary wage integration treatment provided for in Article 16 of Decree-Law No 121 of 2021, in favour of workers dependent on undertakings in the territory of Savona unable to perform the work, in whole or in part, following the landslide that occurred along the cable car plant as a result of the exceptional weather events of November 2019. Article 6 deals with the air transport sector with provisions aimed at speeding up the development of the integrated national transport system (SNIT), increasing rail access to airports and increasing the strategic importance and development of intercontinental airports, in particular by providing acceleration measures for works included in airport development plans. Some simplifications are also extended to airport development plans at other airports of national interest. Article 7 contains a number of amendments to the road code in general aimed at reducing the administrative burden on users, promoting the development of sustainable mobility and increasing road traffic safety. It also refers to a subsequent decree defining the modalities of annotation on the single document of the excess mass connected to the propulsion system installed and extending for a further twelve months the end of the trial of road traffic of vehicles for personal mobility mainly powered by electricity, such as Segway, hoverboard and scooters. Article 8 deals with local and regional public transport. In order to improve the planning of local and regional public transport services, as well as local mobility in its various modes, the new tasks entrusted to the National Observatory for Local Public Transport are defined in detail, which is subsequently renamed, also in relation to the activity of the mobility manager of the area, business and school, as well as the tools and resources from which it can be used. A decree by the Minister for Infrastructure is required to identify specific projects related to the testing of sharing mobility services, which will be financed with a percentage of the National Fund for State financial assistance to local public transport charges, for which new criteria are also laid down. Finally, resources are allocated to enable the immediate operations to be carried out under the programme for the modernisation of the regional railways and the purchase of rolling stock. Article 9 concerns a series of urgent interventions for the functionality of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility (MIMS). It remodels the resources envisaged for the realization of certain investments within the competence of the Ministry in the matter of the promotion of the sustainability of urban mobility, of participations for the high speed and high capacity on the Adriatic railway line, and of financing of the contract of program-parte investments 2022-2026 with Italian Railway Network (RFI). Changes are also made to the structure of the Centre for Innovation and Sustainability in Infrastructure and Mobility (Cismi), as well as the structure set up at the MIMS to support the implementation of the interventions of the Ministry included in the PNRR and to promote research and development activities in the field of infrastructure sustainability and mobility. In order then to accelerate the realization of the maintenance interventions on the properties used by the administrations of the State, it is then expected that, if the amount of the work is less than 100,000 euros, the execution of the ordinary or extraordinary maintenance operations can be handled directly by the user administrations of the real estate instead of the Agency of the State property. In addition, all MIMS employees have the possibility to carry out examinations for the issue of driving licences, professional ratings and certificates of professional competence, so far reserved for the staff of the former Department of Transport, Navigation and Information and Statistical Systems. Article 10 lays down provisions on public works of particular complexity or significant impact, as well as on the functionality of the Higher Council for public works. The scope of the simplifications provided for in Decree-Law No 77 of 2021 is extended. Moreover, in view of the exceptional increases in the prices of construction materials as well as fuel and energy products, it is expected that, in relation to the technical and economic feasibility projects of public works within the State's competence or at least 50% financed by the State, of an amount equal to or greater than EUR 100 million - to be submitted to the opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works - will not apply for the years 2022 and 2023 the payment to the contracting entity of the sum equal to 0,5 per thousand of the value of the works to be carried out. According to the provisions of Article 1 (5) of Decree-Law No 245 of 2005, this law should be used to finance the needs related to the conduct of the evaluation and consultancy procedure. At the same time, resources are provided to ensure the functionality of the same Higher Council of Public Works and to finance the activities of the National Commission for Public Discussion. Article 11 extends to 30 September 2022 the obligation to use FFP2 masks on all means of transport listed in Article 10-c paragraph 1 of Decree-Law No 52 of 22 April 2021. Come to the conclusion, Senator, it has already gone beyond the time at your disposal. Mr Santillo, rapporteur. ...with the exception of aircraft used for commercial services and passenger transport. Article 12 allocates resources to enable the EIA Technical Commission and the PNRR-PNIEC Commission to function properly. Article 13 regulates the entry into force of the measure. Colleagues, the examination in the Commission has been particularly long and complex, given the delicate political phase at which it took place. We had a little more than 500 amendments under discussion and there was a willingness to deal with those of common interest in depth. Finally, before we go into this matter, allow me to thank the offices of Commission 8a for the valuable support they have always provided in this parliamentary term. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u6	The rapporteur, Mr Paroli, forgot to speak. She's enlisted to speak Senator Wolf. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the measure that we are about to convert today, there would undoubtedly have been important measures for the air transport sector which, as the walls of the Senate know, I follow quite well; in fact, the competitiveness and the future of our country are at stake. The road taken to intermodality and interconnection is certainly already a very important signal, but it is still a question of theorism; for the project to become concrete it still takes a long time. I can appreciate the statements made by Minister Giovannini, but in fact there is still much to be done. Personally, I strongly demand some of the amendments that I have tabled, including the one that opens up the possibility of installing photovoltaic panels in the airports of the smaller islands: they look like small drops in the middle of the sea, but in fact they help to carry our country forward towards sustainability, of which many fill their mouths, but unfortunately little do. As you know, we are strongly inclined to the sustainability of air transport, which has always been our priority and will still be our priority. At the same time, however, the issue of increasing fuel costs is not negligible. We have helped drivers and we help local public transport, but often we do not realize that for a carrier, already in ordinary situations, that of fuel is one of the greatest costs to be incurred. We like to have the flight on time, maybe an airport under the house and all the services, but we often forget the need for these carriers, for which tons of fuel are needed: how can we not help? Does this government question the needs of the sector or does it think only of "his" private needs, as a citizen? Politics should be much more careful towards this sector, not only when it comes to shouting at the four winds to have an airport under the house. That's what I think and I think I've been working for these four and a half years to make this industry understand (I myself have understood it much better). We have tabled an amendment - and Senator Paroli has also done so - to increase the fund to help Italian air carriers. Here too there has been a denial, perhaps there has been no attention and this is sorry. Moving on to another amendment and a painful note, with the Government Count II we had already given 800 million euros of refreshment to airport managers. We have granted this money, because these subjects have suffered a strong impact and a strong contraction due to the pandemic. Of these €800 million in belly data to the National Civil Aviation Authority (ENAC), 170 are currently left. The problem is that they were to be used by 2021, but it is normal that, given the time to carry out the projects and the bureaucratic timetables, they were not all given. Therefore, the Government was asked to make an effort, together with the State Accounting - which gives legitimate technical reasons, for goodness sake - and to find a solution to use these 170 million euros in support of new projects, linked inter alia to the PNRR, which we ask at the level of the Italian Government and State. I have therefore asked, through an amendment, to change the destination of use, in order to be able to use these resources in support of new projects related to the PNRR for airport managers, handlers and maintenance companies. However, there was no will and there was a denial, because they could also reformulate the text and try to make an effort. But this money, most likely, will be demanded back and then who knows how it will be used? Maybe in the next budget law they'll give it to someone else. The question I ask myself, therefore, is whether there really is attention to this sector and, above all, where this money will end, which will certainly be requested from ENAC, which two days ago, however, included them in the final budget that it has drawn up. It's really weird stuff. I'm sorry, and I'm telling my colleagues, too. We have talked about Parliament in terms of cans of tuna, but I often think, on the basis of this little experience, that perhaps it is in the ministries that we have problems, as I think we have all found a little. Perhaps it is with the Ministries that we cannot get in touch, because that is where the implementing decrees must be made, while we approve the laws. Unfortunately, often and willingly, here we banish the approval of beautiful laws, but we just gave a help and then, in fact, everything gets lost in the meandering of those other palaces. I'm sorry to say that, and I obviously don't want to make an attack on all the state executives and ministries. The government, which has now resigned, may only really be concerned with current affairs, but it would also be appropriate to give our support and also answers until the last day, because, beyond technicalism, there must still be political responses. Let it be clear, then, that there is the theme of helping Alitalia's extraordinary administration, which has always been treated as last, but it is not helped, not even with a very simple amendment that Mr Pergreffi proposed, among other things supported by myself. Basically, if you do not help the extraordinary administration, you risk not paying the suppliers, the employees still in extraordinary administration, i.e. in extraordinary earnings fund (CIGS), and the employees who make the paychecks. In my opinion, the air transport sector is indeed the son of a minor god. You are and we are all good at talking about flights and airports. We are very good, but then, in fact, we witnessed the start of an airline like ITA even without a national collective agreement, being totally state, and there was silence. I say this because we have started this parliamentary term with a decree concerning Alitalia and today I am still talking about the air transport sector: I hope, at least, in these four and a half years, that I have, however, sent a little more attention from those in charge of this sector. But I repeat, unfortunately, that often and willingly in the Ministries forget that outside there are people who also struggle to pay the state salaries. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I think that this decree-law was an attempt by the Government to meet the demands of the territories, to speed up the performance of public works and to overcome all the fears and reservations expressed by the various bodies that must express opinions and that are always too many. In the amendments I saw that there was also one last assault on diligence: there are too many of them concerning small or clientele issues, in my opinion (let me say so). To the general system of the decree-law instead I make some observations, which concern the situation that we are living, which is a mix of adverse events that never living person has met on his way and that only the strength of Italy, its economic system and its welfare system installed over the years, with many problems, but true and real, succeeds to face. Each more day of drought is a problem that will affect for years; each more day of war as well. Energy will never return to its former prices; war is perhaps linked to this, perhaps it is a consequence or perhaps a premise, in some ways. We will have to make up for it and live in a different way, each one of us, starting with public bodies. Inflation had never reached these levels, excluding the period of the 1970s and 1980s. These situations mean that what you are trying to do is little, because you can't scratch a system that doesn't allow men and women of good will to go on. Article 1 provides rules for Rome Capital compared to the Jubilee 2025. Let me say that Rome must solve problems that come before the investments for the Jubilee; it must design vision works, such as new roads and parking spaces. I think that a foreign capital, with respect to Rome, the capital of Christendom, which hosts this event, instead of a ring link, has two, so that it displaces traffic. First, however, we must solve the problem of garbage and broken roads. Rome is and has been governed by other forces, which have not been able to solve these problems, which I think are getting worse, and I am afraid that the funds that will be allocated will end up in thin air or in waste. Article 2 deals with dams, which have never been as important as they are at present, due to drought. A decree of the MIMS will establish a regulation to approve the projects and then to manage them, but to build a dam or a basin it takes ten years, so the drought should help us, disappearing for ten years. In the blackberries, a paragraph 3 - and I speak for a future decree of a future Government, if it will be more concrete and if it succeeds in having the support - can be placed in the name of "Invasi". Dear Undersecretary, I believe that every Municipality of Italy - even a small one - must have an invasion, while the larger Municipalities should have more than one, with few regulations of authorization, with the declared declaration of a professional who attests that the position is not of damage to the urban settlements and that it can hold the water. I hope that there will be a management system for use primarily in agriculture, but, if necessary, also for human use and that there will be invaded in every municipality. Article 3 provides that, in the approval of projects concerning the Harbour offices, the project constitutes a declaration of public utility, as well as a declaration of urgency and indefensibility. I believe that this, in its general principles, concerns all public works, which are in derogation from the regulatory plans and anything else, but it must be implied that there is a time when you decide to do a work and you do not feel all the categories, with all respect for the consultations, otherwise we have seen that ten environmentalists (even nine) are enough to block works of millions of equivalents, for kilometers of roads or the like. Article 7 also refers, in the Government's amendments, to motorway infrastructure. Here there is something that still doesn't work, apart from the whole debate on the withdrawal of concessions, which then resolved in a joke, because we paid instead of cashing in. Among other things, I do not know whether the State should or can manage these works directly, because it would certainly be in deficit, where it can at least equalize and finance investment and maintenance, which happened to have all blossomed now and even in the period of vacation constitute a hindrance to movement and make citizens taxpayers who legitimately go on vacation angry. Taking a quick look at all the articles that I consider to be most interesting than the decree-law, I would point out that Article 10 provides that works of particular complexity or significant impact are to be removed from the opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works, where their amount does not exceed EUR 100 million. I believe that this should be a general rule for the Higher Council of Public Works, which should apply not only to the work of the PNRR, nor only to the two-year period 2022-2023, but also to works of less than 100 million, for which the environmental impact assessment procedure must be very fast and very slim. In summary, I believe that if Italy, any majority of governments, will not change the system of approach to the realization of public works, it will become a third-world country and these considerations are neither right-wing nor left-wing, but of common sense, which seems to me that in politics, with all due respect, you lack in many moments and this is one of those. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u10	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I rise to speak on this decree-law, which was fired at 2 p.m. this night by the Commission on the merits, which I also thank for having hosted me, since the measure contained issues that I was interested in from Liguria and Savona. I must thank Deputy Minister Morelli and the Government, because they have put the attention on a theme dear to me and to the whole of my Province, inserting it within this decree infrastructure, that is that of the cable cars of Savona. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This applause has come from years and years of discussion on the subject. I would like to mention first of all that also for the part tied to the railway, therefore to the Genoa-Campasso project, have finally been invested, through a fund, 98 million euros, so I strongly thank the Deputy Minister for this project that is functional from the environmental, social and economic point of view and also from the point of view of the ecological and energetic transition. Today, the Commissioner has all the tools to do so, he has 60 days to put all the planning criteria in place and so we are well on track. For what concerns the cable car, the great news is that within the decree-law, which has a national breath, there is a small part that concerns only one territory, but this, as I have remembered more than once, is a very important infrastructure, which has suffered a very serious damage a few years ago because of a landslide that has invested the pylons that support it. Today we have put ourselves in a position to have everything that was necessary so that this important infrastructure, which - it must not be forgotten - gives a living to sixty families and which today has become ecologically modern because it eliminates all the road transport from the city, can be built. We had tabled an amendment which was the son of a great territorial consultation and the great news is that the territory, when it finds a minimum of synthesis, manages to do things well and to generate proposals, even when the people who confront it have different extractions and also politically distant. In this case, local authorities, trade unions, employers and even those interested in having a concession tomorrow have come together and produced this amendment. The amendment has not seen the light in its entirety, but I would like to thank you, Mr Vice-Minister, for this small step we have taken with the rewording, in fact, once again states, if necessary, the strategic importance of this infrastructure. It is only a small step, but I hope - and I say this in the pre-election campaign - that the next government, which I hope is centre-right, will not miss the opportunity to complete an infrastructure which, from the point of view of planning and investment, is absolutely necessary. I will end by thanking everyone, including the entire 8th Commission, my Parent Company, Senator Simona Pergreffi, and Senators Maurizio Campari, Gianfranco Rufa and Stefano Corti, who have never stopped supporting a small part of our territory, which is very important to me. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u12	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u13	Mr President, I hope to say intelligent things, since we have finished our work in the Commission this morning at almost 3.30 p.m. The decree we are examining on the question of infrastructure contains important principles, in particular on the speed of public works. There is a central role of the Higher Council of Public Works and there have been many ad hoc interventions in this measure aimed at enhancing Savona, as Senator Ripamonti recalled before, but also Catania and the province of Lucca. Important interventions, which will certainly characterize the public works for the next few years, even in the small centres; important because one of the principles of this measure is precisely to put in communication and connect the different roads, to link the railway to the main road of the Aurelia street and in any case to the highways. We have tried to work with a sense of responsibility and have tabled many amendments. Unfortunately, there is this area, which has been consolidated over the past few years, by all the ministries, which are trying to advance their initial position and often neglect the needs of the territories that come from Parliament. One of the points on which I would like to speak, because I would like it to remain in the proceedings and also be used in the future, in order to understand if what has been done well today, concerns the issue of motorway concessions. In these years we have witnessed great proclamations, with the triggers that wanted to delete Benetton from the motorway dealers after the fall of the Morandi bridge. Then, just that government has squadred almost 10 billion to the Benetton family, all happy and enthusiastic about this great result, contradicting everything that had been said and done in previous years, in a sort of rethinking the logic of concessions. At some point, however, probably electrocuted along the road to Damascus, it happened that on the other highway, the Road of the Parks, there was a persecutory aggression against that dealership and those more than a thousand employees who work for the various companies of the group, engaged on that highway. I will briefly retrace the story. The decree-law arrived at the Council of Ministers at the Cheticella; written, thought, reasoned - as usual - by those figures who are around the President of the Council (which I hope at least read it), who drafted it so strongly, so violently that, as soon as the measure was approved, even the Division of General Investigation and Special Operations (DIGOS) would appear in the night at the offices of the concessionaire to get all the material given; if this had not happened, the commissioner would have already been ready, which had already been provided for in the decree-law. Moreover, the decree-law provides, for the first time in the history of the Italian Republic, that there is no prior opinion of the Court of Auditors. That is, we go there, we take a company, we put it in the hands of ANAS, no matter what it costs (who cares?), so much the important thing is to take it away [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I would like to make one point: I would like to see who is going to finish this motorway. Let's remember this reasoning, let's see what happens. An even more curious aspect is that ANAS had the management, cashed the tolls, but the salaries continued to pay them the concessionaire; then the concessionaire appealed to the regional administrative court (TAR) for the suspension of this measure and after a few days the TAR granted it. This, however, was not enough; the Government has therefore thought of changing the rule of law on administrative justice, and therefore to modify what is valid today, foreseeing that we can oppose (other than what happens now) the monocratic judge on a precautionary, so as to change it and allow opposition to be made. Obviously there has been a choir of protests, the necessary pressure has been made, the demands of withdrawal - call them as you wish - to ensure that the decision was anticipated from September to this morning or today and we will see some beautiful ones. It was, in essence, a hallucinating attack and I hope, Mr President, that, as is said, there is also a roast in addition to smoking. I say this because if there is substance, it was an anti-mafia operation, like early dissolutions, etc.; in that case, for God's sake. However, if this is not the case, the state will find itself paying - I hope - billions and will have to pay them by the officials who signed that measure. Just give me a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u14	We're eight minutes away.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u15	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). They will certainly not be paid for by the State, which has expressed an opinion against that measure, which has gone on like a missile. We would therefore like to know whose interests are concerned. We want names and surnames of those who have interests in this proletarian expropriation against a dealership. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u16	Thank you, Senator Mallegni. It's okay, because it's fair to others not to abuse time. Not for her, but she was almost twice the minute she had.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u18	Mr President, the decree-law that we are dealing with contains many articles aimed at addressing some of the country's infrastructure criticalities. These are articles that face some of the numerous emergencies that we will be called to face in the near future, such as the Jubilee, the problems of dams, the modernization of the infrastructures of the harbor captains, the Coast Guard, the Arm of the carabinieri and the Guardia di Finanza, measures for the transport of passengers and goods in the lagoon of Venice, provisions for the cable car of Savona, provisions for the air transport, for the safety and the road circulation and the related infrastructures; measures for the local public transport, for the operation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and sustainable mobility. We are now at the end of the legislature, it is time to draw the sums of work done in relation to what the Movement proposed at the beginning of its term of office. In fact, although the media neglect the Movimento 5 Stars and try to polarize the attention to political leaders, in particular, at this time, between right and left, the Movement has always put attention on the themes. This decree-law follows the agenda that the Movement had placed itself and that was partially realized. We found a backward country, where corruption and corruption dominated the political framework. Everyone will remember how the legislature began: the collapse of the Morandi bridge. The ongoing investigations show that it was related to the lack of maintenance, which the dealers had not carried out. We began, with the Count Government, to invest in monitoring and security and in the adaptation of the infrastructure network. We gave money back to the municipalities, which had been strangled for years and had seen their revenues diverted to the state coffers, increasingly absorbing and dispersing. We have therefore returned money to municipalities and provinces also for the adaptation of provincial roads, after years of carelessness. In this decree-law we dealt with one of the critical issues that are exploding this summer, namely the water shortage. Article 2 is dedicated to the transfer of the Italian register of dams within the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, i.e. the State, whose staff is increased, with particular incentive for technical functions of high specialisation, destined to engineers and geologists. But I would like to make it clear that dams are not the only solution to the problem of water scarcity. We know that the water supply is dispersed and, despite the fact that the problem has been known for decades, interventions in this area have only taken place in recent years. There are regions where water shortages are very high and water in summer is rationed, where in the past large funds have been allocated for the construction of dams, but which have not been completed or, in some cases, have a low capacity to invade because the bottom is full of sediments. In some countries where water scarcity has been high for decades, efforts are being made to exploit the water resource and recover it as much as possible. Water must be stored in cisterns below each building, as has been the case for years in some regions of the United States: when a new construction is made it must be expected that there is a cistern, which can be used to irrigate the garden, while now mineral water is often used. To irrigate the garden they pump from hundreds of meters deep mineral waters and pour into the rivers to ensure the minimum vital outflow. But this is a massacre of our resources. It is necessary to avoid evapotranspiration and, therefore, as is done in the arid countries, the storage of water must be done as much as possible in the subsoil, even in the flood plains. It is obvious that in the flood plains, creating special barriers, the evapotranspiration is practically reduced. This is the solution they have adopted in dry countries. Of course we must intervene in agriculture with non-dispersive irrigation technologies, as we are all too often seeing in our regions today. So drip irrigation, underground irrigation. Let us take an example from the dry countries, because we are becoming a dry country to all intents and purposes. Water, like so many other resources, is not infinite and must therefore be used sparingly. It is one of the most important resources we have and we must impose limits on its use, because it is ending, it is not endless. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A long-term planning of this good, which our Minister Patuanelli was preparing, must be launched as soon as possible, without, unfortunately, being able to complete it. Let's go back to the Movement program. We have always supported the respect of the Venice lagoon. In this legislature, access to the lagoon has been limited - let us not forget it - of the great ships, which destabilized the canals, that is, one of the most important resources and patrimony of humanity par excellence in Venice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We managed to remove the big ships from the San Marco Canal. In this measure we intervene in order to guarantee also the presence of appropriate piers in the area of Porto Marghera and even in the area of Chioggia in order to allow therefore a port to the larger ships and then to reach the lagoon. We have again intervened - the Ministry of course, but we of the Movement have supported it - on Savona, which is a critical area for the problems associated with the collapse of the cable car, increasing the realization of this cable car, but also of surrounding areas that can act as flywheels for the economy of the territory. [[Applause]] I thank the colleagues of the League who have carried out this battle. The time at our disposal is almost over, but I remember that we started to change the country by changing the priority of interventions and trying as much as possible to achieve sustainable interventions. We have worked tirelessly for the ecological transition and the fight against climate change. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must realise that this is one of the priorities for the country. The password is energy saving. We need a change in the development model, because what we have is not sustainable and this is being demonstrated by the current climate crisis. We at Movimento 5 Stars have done everything we can to bring about epochal changes: we are on that path and I hope that the country will continue to work in this direction on the ecological transition. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Morelli and Ms Bini for their help, as well as the rapporteurs Mr Paroli and Mr Santillo and the President of the Commission for their work. I would like to highlight something that is happening today in the world of infrastructure: there are rumours that very soon, perhaps even today, the guidelines on infrastructure controls will be published, which will prevent, if confirmed, the passage on infrastructure over 40 tonnes. If so, be careful, because in the next few days we will have the blockade of the country and we will find ourselves quietly greeting the PNRR. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, I ask you to pay the utmost attention on this topic and take advantage of a passage within the decree infrastructures to start to point out that, if this happened, we would really find ourselves with the country completely blocked, because the 40 tons and perhaps the responsibility of the local authorities on the individual infrastructures would really be a heavy load, also for what concerns our local and provincial administrators. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u22	Mr President, this is a decree-law that has tried a lot in the Commission: as you know, we closed our work at 3 a.m. and there was quite a heated debate, because the problems are not lacking. At the same time, however, this is a very important measure that we must take absolutely home before we enter the heart of the electoral campaign. It is important because it allows us to simplify the procedures for investment in infrastructure, an ambitious objective that can only be achieved through specific rules that can guarantee the safety of people by improving their quality of life. There are a number of measures planned in this respect: the experimentation of new forms of sustainable urban mobility, the strengthening of the role of local mobility manager and transport, the increase of road safety, metro and water systems. These are interventions that testify to the attention to the quality of life of people, especially those with disabilities. The ambition of the aim is also taken from another perspective: the infrastructures are fundamental to the PNRR and are even more so at this delicate moment. Although the political framework of the last few days is not guaranteeing the stability that would have been necessary to operate fully and on which the Government Draghi had worked hard this year and a half, we cannot afford to delay in pursuing the objectives to obtain the funds of the PNRR. Well, this measure implements part of the project and is in line with the same measure of September 2021 and with the others adopted in recent months, aimed at making the national infrastructure system more modern, interconnected, digitized, effective and resilient to the climate crisis - which is hitting us hard these days - and aimed at providing mobility services safer and more adapted to the needs of citizens. We focused, in particular, on two Italian cities that finally, with this decree, will see a concrete improvement in terms of road and infrastructure. I am referring, for example, to the city of Rome, with respect to which an overall simplification is expected, accompanied by an acceleration of the authorization process for infrastructure and mobility works related to the Jubilee of the Catholic Church of 2025, and for the adaptation of roads and services aimed at the reception of pilgrims and tourists. No less important is Venice. It was necessary to increase the receptivity of the ships from cruise starting from the 2022 season. After the ban to the passage of the great ships in the canal of the Giudecca and in the basin of San Marco, thanks to this provision will be realized ulterior temporary berths, besides that already previewed of Marghera, also in the port of Chioggia. The aim is to realize of the moorings in order to support the crocieristica activity, fundamental for the tourism of the area, but to guarantee at the same time the protection of the ecosystem of the lagoon. It is one of the most beautiful cities in the world and we must protect it from this point of view. Particular attention has also been paid to improving local and regional public transport services. New criteria for the use of the National Fund for Local Public Transport are laid down as part of the strengthening of policies for sustainable local mobility. But I would like in particular to stress the interventions - also these very important for the climate crisis and the drought that is hitting us - for the realization of the dams and the strengthening of the garrisons of control. I also remember the simplifications for the approval of the airport development plans, the potenziamento of the infrastructures and the Harbour offices, the Coast Guard, the Arma dei carabinieri, the Guardia di Finanza, and the potenziamento and the increase of the environmental sustainability and the aerial transport. On the other hand, with regard to the individual amendments, especially those adopted by the Italia Viva Group, I reserve the right to speak during the vote. [[Applause from Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u23	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u26	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak on the order of business, because I think it is necessary to draw the attention of this House to a very serious matter which has been reported by some newspapers this morning, which concerns us directly and fully. The news has not been denied, therefore, I could afford not to use the conditional, I tell my colleagues clearly. I am referring to the meeting that would take place at the end of May between the Councillor for International Relations of the League-Salvini Premier - a very important party of the then Dragon Government in full power - and an important official of the Russian embassy in Italy, Oleg Kostyukov. According to what has been said - and this has not been denied, I repeat - at that meeting the official of the Russian embassy proposed destabilizing conduct towards the Italian Government; I might say suggested, but I am limited to the verb \'prospected. These things are disturbing, they are a gigantic shadow over our political life. I am sorry that they were known at the beginning of an election campaign that we would all like to correct. We demand clarity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u27	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u28	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, on account of the seriousness of the matter, I would ask you to give me time.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u29	I thought you were done. You know very well that this would normally be an issue to be dealt with at the end of the sitting, but I am giving you time because I do not want to argue about an issue that does not deserve controversy. I repeat, I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u30	I didn't finish. I'll do it very soon. I would like to say to my colleagues, to the whole House and to the public that we demand clarity; the Italian citizens demand it, and this clarity concerns fundamental issues of national interest. Let's talk about the international location of our country. At this moment the Copasir is gathered, where our representative will ask for further details on the subject. The Copasir is presided over by President Urso, who is part of this Senate. We have the right to know if the forces that aspire to the government of this country are with or against the West. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , if they are with or against the European Union's line, whether they are with or against the traditional international position of Italy. We have the right to know whether, in parties that aspire to govern this country and that cannot deny such serious news, there is the will not to have any condescension and subalternity towards the interests and aims of a regime, such as that of Putin, which has brought bloodshed on European soil, thousands of deaths and the most serious war in decades. In this Senate, already in 2019 we presented a bill to set up a Commission of Inquiry; colleagues will remember it because already then there had been very disturbing and disturbing news about the relations between the League and Putin's regime. What we know today aggravates our concern, calls for a great deal of clarity and this House must take care of it. We will be presenting initiatives and questions, but above all I hope that we will have the strength to say that there is none of the reasons that we are afraid of being concerned about subalternity with Putin. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are with the West, with Europe, with the international location of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u31	More than an intervention on the order of business, it seemed to me to be an electoral meeting, to be honest. However, we are not going to have a debate on this issue; I give the floor - because you asked me in advance - to Senator Romeo. If others wish to speak on this matter, they will do so at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u34	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I understand that on the left they are very sorry and have not yet recovered from yesterday's news that the centre-right has found the agreement. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They hoped that there would be division and, instead, this unit put them in serious difficulty. Honestly, I do not think - I tell Comrade Parrini - that journalistic inventions must be denied. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The election campaign has begun. We do all the investigative committees, we make all the acts available, and we do whatever you want. We know very well that it will be a campaign marked, especially on the left, to see the ugly and the bad, with Salvini who says that we must dialogue with Putin. In this regard, I would remind you that several times Salvini has said that the Atlantic Alliance is not at all under discussion. In addition, Mr Macron, an idol from the left of our country, says that we must dialogue with Putin, and Mr Scholz, President of a Social Democratic Government, whom you are proud to be the main protagonists. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] So, in the end, we are not saying anything different than what two important leaders of Europe have said, which of course have absolutely clear that we must look first at the interests of Europe, which must come first. Since you always mention entrepreneurs, I invite you to go and talk to them (not with those you read in the newspapers) and I assure you that you will not find one who does not say that this war must end as soon as possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] We are aiming at this, otherwise the damage that is expected for the future is really a lot. If we are so dependent on Russia's gas today, with all the consequences, we must thank - and I say this to Comrade Parrini - your Secretary, Mr Letta, who was the President-in-Office of the Council, who made the major agreements to make us dependent on Russia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Comments. Senator Di Nicola repeatedly shows that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u35	Colleagues, I do not intend to open an ultronean debate. Anyone who wants to speak can do so at the end of the sitting, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. In order to avoid controversy, I allowed a member of the PD Group to speak, despite the intervention had nothing to do with the order of business. I had to do the same thing - of course - for the League Group, which had been called into question. Let us now return to the respect of the Rules of Procedure and to the continuation of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u36	I call the rapporteur, Senator Santillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u37	Mr President, I would once again like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for their valuable work, which has contributed, in a very particular and rather familiar climate, to bringing home important results in a positive way on various amendments and issues addressed in the measure, at a very difficult time. In fact, we remember that the decree-law was born when there was a government, while now we have worked with a resigned Executive. Hence my thanks to Deputy Minister Morelli for he has thrown his heart beyond the obstacle, as have so many members of the Commission. My thanks also go to the other rapporteur, Senator Paroli, who is not here with me today, and to the strong sense of responsibility of all the political forces that responded to the Government's appeal, which asked us to convert this decree-law. I must say, as my fellow Members have noticed, that the file of amendments is not yet available and therefore I cannot proceed with the communication of opinions. I am therefore obliged to request that the work be suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u38	In fact, you have not yet been asked to speak on the amendments and agendas under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u40	Nicola's Senator, don't worry. It is not for you, but if we are to open a debate on press indiscretion every time an article comes out, we can do so, but at the end of the sitting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I let them talk, so they wouldn't say... If you want to intervene, you'll do it at the end of the session. [[Comments of Senator Di Nicola]] Senator, tell me what you want to talk about, the order of business: what's the topic? If it's the same, I don't give you the floor. If it is a different subject, on the order of business, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u41	Mr President, may I also take the floor, if you will, but I would ask you to speak, as other Members have spoken, on a matter that I would not underestimate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u42	I'm not underestimating you. I'm telling you that the Rules of Procedure make sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u43	DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr. President, excuse me, Mr. President. I'm interrupting. Tell me what you want to do. DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr President, at the last Conference of the Leaders, a letter from your party colleague and authoritative President of the Copasir was given to the Group's leaders, who was warning about the risks of pollution and external interventions in Parliament's work and in view of the election campaign - I apologise and thank you because you are letting me speak - about the interference of foreign countries and the conduct of the work and also, in some way, about the parliamentary and governmental dynamics. That's all I'm telling you, because I want to make it brief. I welcome Senator Parrini's invitation and alarm on the issue he raised, because we are not only faced with newspaper articles, anticipations or unfounded news. This morning's news deserves the utmost attention of Parliament, precisely because it is part of the alarm that your party colleague, Senator Urso, has launched. I am not saying anything more about responsibilities here, and I am just saying that there is little time, but the Senate must take care of this - we shall see how - in the next sittings. Personally and on behalf of the Group, I also call on your party colleague, Senator Urso, to give rise to the alarms he launched in that communication, which came to us at the Conference of the Leaders, because it is not reassuring at all and it is not possible, at this moment, to put the seriousness of those interferences into the background. Therefore, I thank you for giving me the floor and I hope, together with the Democratic Party and other political forces that they will want, that the Senate will be committed in the next few hours to addressing this issue. [[Applause from the Ipf-CD Group and Senator Parrini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u44	Senator, you can rest assured, because on real issues Parliament has always had attention. This is an indiscretion and there will be spaces that the Regulation allows for any topic.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, by accepting the request to suspend the work, I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am on the distribution side - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's report. However, pending the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the amendments adopted by the 8th standing Commission, I must suspend the sitting which, as the Conference of Leaders has established, will resume at 2 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.25 a.m. and resumed at 14.03 p.m.) I note that the work of the 5th Commission has not yet been completed. The sitting was therefore suspended until 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.04 p.m. and resumed at 2.35 p.m.) The Presidency, in accordance with what was decided during the examination in the contact person, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible to propose amendments 5.0.6, 6.2, and 9.38, as well as the agendas G9.2 and G9.3. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u46	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of amendment 1,1000 and the G1.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u48	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u49	On agenda G2.1 I return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u50	Mr President, the government accepts this as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u51	Senator Mallegni, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u52	Mr President, I do not insist.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u53	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G2.1 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u54	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3.8 (text 2) and 3.0.4 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u55	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u56	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.4 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u57	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 4.1 (text 2), 4.7 and 4.0.3 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u58	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u59	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.7, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.3 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u60	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5.2 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u61	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u62	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.6 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u63	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 6.14, 6.24 (text 2) and 6.0.3 (text 2). The opinion was in favour of the G6.1 agenda and the G6.100 agenda, with a rewording to add the following words before the part of the agenda:
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u64	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u65	Amendment 6.2 is not possible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.14, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.24 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G6.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Gaudiano, do you accept the proposed reformulation on the agenda G6.00?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u66	Mr President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u67	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6.0.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u68	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 7,17 (text 2), 7.30, 7.34, 7,1000, 7.44, 7.51 (text 2), 7.52, 7.63, 7.68, 7.69, 7.81. The opinion was in favour of amendment 7.98 (text 2) and accepted the rewording of the 5th Commission, as well as amendments 7.21 (text 2), 7.122, 7.133 (text 2) and 7.135 (text 2). On the agenda, G7.2 I return to the government. I welcome the G7.1 and G7.3 agendas, as well as Amendments 7,019 and 7,022.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u69	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. The Government welcomes the G7.2 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u70	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.17 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.30, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.34, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 7.44, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.51 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.52, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.63, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.68, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.69, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.81, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.98 (text 3), which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission, presented by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.21 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 7.122, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7,133 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7135 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7.1 and G7.3 will not be put to the vote. As the presenters do not insist on the vote, the G7.2 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.0.19 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.0.22 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u71	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 8.2, 8,1000, 8,19 (text 2), 8,24, 8,11 (text 2), 8,30, 8,58 (text 2). I am in favour of the G8.1 agenda. On agendas G8.2 G8.3 G8.5 and G8.6 I am in favour subject to the adoption of the rewording to include the words "to assess the appropriateness of "before the device."
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u72	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u73	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 8.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 8.19 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.24, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.11 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.30 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.58 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Croatti welcomes the rewording of the G8.2 agenda. Senator Mallegni, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G8.3?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u74	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u75	Senators Ruspandini and Pergreffi welcome the reformulations of the respective agenda presented. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G8.2 (text 2), G8.3 (text 2), G8.5 (text 2) and G8.6 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We move on to the amendments and agendas referred to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u76	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 9.6 (text 3), 9.7 (text 2), 9.14 (text 2) which comply with the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission, 9.16 (text 2), 9.27 (text 3), 9.29, 9.30 (text 2), 9.34, 9.39 (text 2), 9.42 (text 2), 9.47 and 9.48 (text 2). I will return to the Government on the agenda G9.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u77	Mr President, I am against the G9.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u78	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.6 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.7 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 9.14 (text 3), which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission, which has been tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.16 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.27 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9,29 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 9.30 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 9.34, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.38 is unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.39 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 9.42 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 9.47, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.48 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G9.1, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas G9.2 and G9.3 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u79	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 10.7, 10.12 (text 2) and 10.13 (text 2). I am in favour of the G10.1 agenda. On agenda G10.4 I return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u80	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments to Article 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u81	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.7 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 10.12 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 10.13 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.1 will not be put to the vote. Under-Secretary Morelli, what is the Government's opinion on the G10.4 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u82	Mr President, I am in favour of the G10.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u83	As the G10.4 agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u84	Mr President, I am against Amendment 11.1. On the agenda, Mr G11.1 I shall return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u85	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on Amendment 11.1. We accept the agenda G11.1 as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u86	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Paragone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Malan, do you insist on voting on the agenda G11.1? Mr Malan (FdI). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G11.1 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u89	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to add the signature to Amendment 11.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u92	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-Iac (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, I rise to point out a correction to the vote: by mistake, I voted in favour but my vote would have been against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u95	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I should like to point out that my voting system did not work and that I would have voted against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u96	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u97	Mr President, I am against Amendment 12.1. I am in favour of Amendments 12.4 (text 3), 12.6 (text 3), 12.12 (text 4), 12.001000, 12.00.26. I am in favour of amendment 12.0.2000 (text 2) if the rewording proposed by the 5th Commission is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u98	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u99	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1 tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 12.6 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 12.12 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u102	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted against the previous amendment by mistake, while I would have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u103	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 12.0.1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.0.2000 (text 3), in the wording which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission, presented by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.0.26 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments tabled to Article 1 of the draft conversion law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u104	Mr President, on Amendment X1.1 and its sub-amendments, Mr Paroli and the rapporteur (who is absent today) had a divergence of views in the Commission. That is why we put it back on the Commission's agenda, which only voted on Amendment X1,100 last night. Today we want to put ourselves back to the House on all the amendments tabled to Article 1 of the conversion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u105	The Government is in favour of amendment X1,100 and against all others.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u108	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, at least when we vote on these amendments, could you ask to extract the cards of senators who are not in their place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u109	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment X1,100/2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u112	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the rapporteur was clear earlier when he said that in recent days the Commission had agreed to compose the framework of the amendments on which the opinion could be favourable by withdrawing the others so as to proceed quickly. On the issue of the Park Road we asked for a derogation from what was the majority and the Forza Italia Group - but not only us - maintained the amendments having the desire to vote on them, wishing to express itself on these issues. I did it this morning during the general debate and I do it now. We are once again faced with that abomination of the government's decree. This amendment provides for the repeal of point (b) and, therefore, the maintenance of all PNRR rules. We want not to lose money, but to completely erase that abomination of decree which, objectively, is a proletarian expropriation. They went to make a decree using double standards. The same government, on both sides, paid almost 10 billion to the Benetton family and Aspi to buy it. Here they did night time a decree; they sent the police; they invaded the offices; they took everything away; they blocked the activity; they even identified an extraordinary commissioner in the event that they opposed it; they requested that there be no prior opinion of the Court of Auditors; they ignored the contrary opinion of the State's Bill; they tried to go against the decision of the monocratic body when it had suspended it. I give you a news: two hours ago the TAR Lazio confirmed the suspensive and postponed to 20 September. Thus, yet another act of force against the administrative judiciary also failed. This stuff cannot be carried forward: it is a legislative, constitutional force and the rules of freedom, civil coexistence and respect for more than 1,000 people who work in this company and nobody cares about it. [[Applause]] There is even a rule that ANAS will be able to assume who, when and to what extent it will want and not maintaining the level of employment, as provided for by all the norms, by the code of contracts, by all the trade union rules and by every type of norm that regulates the relationships of work in a public company or in public concession where, if the paron changes, the master, who arrives must recover all the employees. These people are regularly sent home: something never seen in the history of the Italian Republic and you continue to go straight. 15,02 p.m. (Following MALLEGNI). We therefore call for the repeal of point (b), the whole cancellation of this which I cannot even define as law, but which I would call ambush. I said this morning in general debate - and I repeat now - that I hope that there is the fat - pass me the Tuscan term - and it is not just smoke. If it weren't, it would be even more serious. Some press bodies - today published on all sites - even name and surname Subsecretaries to the Presidency of the Council, advisers and advisers to the President of the Council to whom they blame the responsibility for this. I hope that President Draghi, at least in a final whisper, will distance himself from this stuff and have the will and courage not to carry it forward. For these reasons, we shall be voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u115	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment X1,100/2 and I would like to explain, in explanation of vote, the reasons for this choice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pagano, a colleague has already spoken for his Group. PAGE (FIBP-UDC). All right, I will speak on the next amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u116	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment X1,100/2, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment X1,100/9.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u119	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to Amendment X1,100/9 and I would ask for the separate vote, namely that points (a) and (b) be voted separately, and I would also like to explain the reasons for that. I agree with what my colleague Senator Mallegni said about the previous amendment and say that in this country, at a stage like this, in loose rooms - let me add this argument, which has not been dealt with by my colleague - to force the hand on a decree-law that stripes one of the Italian motorways, among other things, one of the most complex - it is a mountain highway - with such a blitz, I think it is inadequate, inappropriate and even contra legem, in some respects. It is true that this decree-law has been placed with an escamotage, even as an amendment to an already existing decree-law, and this is already a force and it is right to remind us all, because we are legislators. However, it is clear that the Government, which is resigned, is forcing its hand on a matter that does not see us all in agreement. This is a government of national unity; President Draghi resigned for these very reasons and felt that he could no longer play the role of President of the Council of Ministers of a majority of national unity - national unity was no longer there - and we, on this decree-law, with a political force that contributed with a large number of parliamentarians, force our hands and approve it? [[Applause]] I would also like to address my colleagues and those who do so much dragon to the end, asking them to remember that Draghi, for these very reasons, did not want to keep his commitment to continue as President of the Council of Ministers until the end of his term of office. I therefore believe that at this stage, in loose Chambers, it is possible to vote only and exclusively on decree-laws and urgent measures, which still have a united and undivided majority. This is one of those cases in which it is inappropriate, from a political and also regulatory point of view, to vote on a measure such as this. We are absolutely opposed, for the same reasons that my colleague Senator Mallegni has explained, and I maintain that the jurisprudential intervention of the TAR of Lazio today, which has reiterated the suspensive measure, poses a very important question to all of us. It means that administrative judges have considered that there were all the arguments and elements to suspend the effectiveness of the decree-law. Therefore, it is right to remember that you are signing the approval of a decree-law for which administrative justice believes that there are arguments and issues on which there are problems for matters of administrative legitimacy. [[Applause]] We are here to make laws and it is right to remember that. We really do not understand the acceleration of such a drastic and punitive measure at the time of the end of the legislature. Therefore, for these reasons, I insist on requesting the separate vote of the amendment under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u120	I put to the vote the proposal to vote separately on amendment X1,100/9, tabled by Senator Pagano, voting separately on point (a) and point (b). It's approved. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment X1,100/9, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, until the words "the second period" on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the second part of amendment X1,100/9 (corresponding to letter b), tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment X1,100/100 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment X1,100/16.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u123	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce the addition of Senator Pagano's signature to the amendments X1,100/16, X1,100/20, X1,100/30, X1,100/35 and X1,100/37. I have already explained the contents sufficiently in my previous speech. Forza Italia will vote in favour of the amendments I have just mentioned, to which Senator Pagano's signature has been added.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u124	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment X1,100/16, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment X1,100/20, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment X1,100/30, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment X1,100/35, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment X1,100/37, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment X1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u127	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group will vote against Amendment X1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u128	On Amendment X1,100 there is the Government's favourable opinion. Can we also welcome the rapporteur's opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u129	I was back in the Chamber, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u132	MANTOVANI (M5S). Madam President, I will repeat the request in this vote to have the ballots of the senators removed from their seats. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u133	Well, then I ask the parliamentary assistants to proceed... [[Comments]] Sorry, no, the direction of this House is, of course, up to the Presidency. I would ask Parliament's assistants, of course, to proceed with the extraction of cards in the benches where the senators are not present. I would remind you that the Government's opinion on this amendment is in favour. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment X1,100, tabled by the Commission, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u136	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak about the events which have just taken place, which deserve to be stigmatised. As you said, it is up to the Presidency and not this House to scream as if we were not in the Senate House, where respect for legality is required. Let it be noted, then, that some political forces are crying out when they ask for respect for legality. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u137	Senator Airola, I'd say we're all out of time for the polemics. We shall now proceed to the Coord coordination proposal. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is prepared to accept Amendment No 1, on which the rapporteur has brought forward a proposal for an amendment, to which I would ask him to confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u138	The amendment that I propose is that in Annex 1, after the words "Article 9, paragraph 2" are inserted the following: "amounts in millions of euros".
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u139	I call on the Government representative to express his views on the proposal for a rewording made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u140	I am in favour of the proposal for a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u141	I call on the Coord coordination proposal to be voted on simultaneously. 1 (text 2), presented by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u144	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, but I would like to make a few comments on behalf of my Group together for the future. The decree-law that we are going to convert today contains a number of provisions and measures for the safety and development of infrastructure, transport and sustainable mobility, as well as some rules concerning major events and the use of respiratory protection devices. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u145	Colleagues, those who do not want to follow can, of course, flow out of the Chamber, possibly not loudly. We allow my colleague to make his speech and the presidency in this House to follow him.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u146	Please, Senator Mautone. MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Article 1 provides for measures to speed up the implementation of the works planned for the improvement of road traffic in Rome on the occasion of the Jubilee 2025. Important, in this case, is the fixed writing of a chronoprogram to better respect the times and the modalities in the realization of the planned works. It is necessary that our country triggers that extra march that allows it to recover also in the eyes of other European and world partners that image - to be honest - a little faded, not to say obscured, because of many reasons that we are not here to list, of a hospitable country, able to guarantee security, level structures and an adequate organization that these great public events necessarily require. In general, the decree-law also provides for urgent rules to be adopted for the maintenance and safety of dams. The decree embraces a vast program, overall of adaptation of the infrastructures of our Country, and tries to respond to the urgencies and the needs not procrastinable, finalized to the relaunch of the field of the aerial transports, terrestrial and marine. The provisions adopted go in the right direction and have the primary aim of reducing pollution, promoting sustainable mobility, always with a view to establishing the decarbonisation of transport and improving traffic safety. Of course, the measure is only an important part of the process of modernising our country and improving the quality of life and security of our citizens. With regard to health safety, Mr President, the measures provided for in Article 11 are well in place with regard to the use of respiratory protection devices, both in the transport sector and in health and social welfare structures. In this second case, the obligation concerns both workers and users as well as visitors and also involves rehabilitation facilities, structures for elderly not self-sufficient and for long-term care. All these health measures stem from the epidemiological data, which testify to a fight against the pandemic, which is still not finished, and which are obviously the logical consequence of the rise of the contagion curve. SARS virus - CoV - 2 has mutated, continues to mutate and is becoming - so to speak - not sensitive even to the summer season, given its current spread. It has undoubtedly reduced its virulence aggressiveness, but certainly not its ability to propagate and still seems able to improve its infectious performance: it is currently more widespread, but less aggressive. However, it is vital to protect fragile, most susceptible, elderly, our parents and grandparents. We therefore welcome the health protection measures contained in this decree, in the ways and places where it is easier to contagion and spread. This measure goes in the right direction of attention to the needs of our country and to offer answers to the economic, social and health emergencies that have upset our community. Therefore, the Group Together for the Future Democratic Centre will vote in favour of the measures taken in this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u149	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will be brief, because I have already spoken in general debate, recalling all the main points of this decree and its importance. Therefore, I would just like to say that the work done in the Commission has enabled us in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to make a substantial contribution. For this reason, I would like to mention a number of important amendments. For example, we have asked for further extension of the road link between the Fiumicino-EUR motorway and the airports of Florence and Salerno, in order to avoid the withdrawal of funding. With another amendment, instead, we have allocated resources for extraordinary maintenance work, refunctionalization and safety of the road, in order to speed up the execution of the necessary maintenance operations to guarantee the functional viability to the crossing of the Verghereto pass between Tuscany and Emilia. With another modification, we have tried to assure a greater systemic planning of the harbour infrastructures along the coast of Sicily, inserting the port of Pozzallo between the authorities of harbour system of the sea of East Sicily. Moreover, for the smaller islands of Sicily, which are often penalized in terms of road, precisely in order to guarantee the continuity of the marine services of connection under public service regime with the smaller islands, we have recognized to the person in charge of the management of the services an extraordinary contribution, destined to compensate the economic effects of the increase of the costs of fuel in the year 2022. Finally, I would also like to mention the amendment to encourage the green conversion of heavy goods vehicles, which allows the cabin of such vehicles to derogate from the maximum length laid down in the road code. For these and other amendments that we have approved, we thank all the rapporteurs and, above all, the Government that supported us in our work. Of course, much more could have been done if the action of the Dragon Government, which we have always claimed, had continued with conviction; this would have prevented the internal frictions and fractures that are now due to the lack of a majority and to the political divisions that are becoming more and more accentuated, since we are already in the electoral campaign. Despite everything, however, we are about to adopt the measure on the agenda. For this reason I am voting in favour of the Italian Socialist Group Viva-Partito Italiano. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u152	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, I have a different view and I believe that many things could have been done - senator - only if this government had pulled the plug first. I say this because there are so many contradictions in the measure that, with the little time available to me, I will not be able to list them. We are even talking, however, about the extension of another twelve months for the conclusion of the experimentation of the road traffic of single-person vehicles, despite the last report of Istat on road accidents is really heavy: from 2020 even the wounded pass to 1,980, the dead to nine, a pedestrian died due to the clash with a scooter. I am only saying this in order to introduce into the Chamber arguments which have not been discussed. The Government of the Best still extends the road trial by a year, but I didn't understand what you want to experience. Net of this, the National Observatory on local public transport policies is transformed, thanks to the Government of the best, into the National Observatory for the support of programming and monitoring of sustainable local public mobility. This is, therefore, a substantial change. The local public transport sector, whose criticalities are mentioned even in the Government's own document, is in great trouble, with an economic and management deficit estimated at about two billion euros, excluding the expensive energy and fuel in progress, which, instead of increasing the budget available in the national fund, is reduced by five million euros per year. These are the best of the best policies. The minister Giovannini, instead of overcoming the current serious moment, for example establishing - as we have proposed - a fund for fuel, has found nothing better to do than to identify a university professor of first class, placed in expectation for the entire duration of the assignment, which - as happened on the occasion of the identification of the extraordinary commissioners appointed by the same Ministry - will watch over the works of the 15 complex public works, with a set of projects that are worth more than three billion euros, representing interventions of essential road and railway connections, with a result that is under the eyes of all: works completely firm, still unfinished 379 works throughout the national territory, for a remnant of expenditure of about 1,2 billion euros. In this atmosphere from the end of the empire I do not want to open the parenthesis on Alitalia, an example of how a crisis should not be managed. The path so far followed by the Government for the announced scaling: a probable next sale of this asset to foreigners is before everyone's eyes. I would like to remind you of another subject with which you have rinsed your mouth, that of the High Speed in the South. In fact it is not true that it is planned all over the South: from Salerno to Reggio Calabria it will not be possible to speak of high speed; but, if all goes well, you will be able to assist in many regions of the South to a speed that will be in line with the traditional services. I am reluctantly obliged to denounce the fact that an amendment of mine has not been taken into account; amendment referring to the exemption proposed by the toll for commuters on the A24 and A25 motorways, already proposed by the Gruppo Fratelli d'Italia to the Chamber, which was precisely trying to meet the communities of our most marginalized territories of Lazio and Abruzzo. All this has gone to cavalry even with the laughter of so many colleagues in the Commission. For a series of actions that we have instead appreciated and that go in the direction of the implementation of the structures and infrastructures of our nation, our attitude of constructive patriotic opposition leads us to declare the abstention vote on the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u155	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their patient and complicated work, as has also been seen from the votes. As you can see, Mr President, you can also - think a little - succeed in approving and converting decree-laws without trust. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's almost something to remember. This is to say that you can safely work. The measure before us comes at a time when we have a further need to put in place facilitated procedures and other measures to put the work of the PNRR on the right track. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to read the first article of the decree-law that is very curious, because it recites "Measures of acceleration for the realization of the works for the roadway of the city of Rome and the Jubilee 2025", an absolutely sacrosanct theme. But now a question arises spontaneously in all this, given the situation we are in today, with the elections scheduled for 25 September and everything that this entails. The question of the incinerator in Rome - as I call it - could not, for example, be placed in the right place, which was exactly this? I refer, that is, to the article of the decree-law which provides for the procedures of acceleration with regard to the works of the Jubilee, demonstrating that it was possible to do what was requested 50 times and, that is, the deletion of that norm for inclusion in the specific provision for the Jubilee. I don't want to argue, but that's the way it is, and it's good to know. As is evident from all this it was not necessary to wait who knows how long, but indeed it was probably possible to make an ad hoc decree. However, this is a good thing, and it is no coincidence that Article 1 provides for further reductions in the time limits for the EIA. We have further reduced these terms for the Jubilee and other works. This was absolutely possible. I would like this to remain on the record because then, when this whole story is rebuilt one day, it is good to find official traces of the affair also in the parliamentary accounts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We supported the other rules contained in the measure and considered them very important. And some of them have been improved by means of amendments, although some were a little too localistic and of an electoral nature and I would have preferred to see them expounded; they were not as many as anyone might have wanted, but there is also evidence in this decree. Article 8 is very important and concerns the absolutely necessary action on local and regional public transport. Instead of preferring a system that includes several tranches, it was preferred to transfer transfers with a single tranche and a remodulation of the funds absolutely necessary and urgent. You know perfectly well how much the public transport companies, and consequently the municipalities, cost the increase in the price of diesel and petrol and, therefore, this support was absolutely urgent. Among other things, the local authorities have experienced complicated years with the pandemic and now suffer the dear energy: a not indifferent suffering that is added to that of the citizens. There are also other interventions in support of a line that we share, which is perhaps a bit shy and should have been even a little more rapid in terms of sustainable mobility. An important and innovative amendment introduces, for example, mobility manager within the school world: we know that city time plans are a key element in the school issue. I will not dwell on other issues. On a subject that has been so vexed that we have been discussing the A24 issue, we claim that some of the amendments concerning social clauses for the protection of workers have been adopted. We want this to be emphasized, because we would not want ANAS to have the choice of subjects that will have to be taken. We aim to stabilize and safeguard the full employment of all those involved in the management of the A24 and the A25. There is another important point about the situation that has seen protagonists in all these years, to protect its citizens, the mayors of the whole area where the phenomenon of commuting with Rome is very strong and the costs of tolling are very high. Although with some resistance, the establishment of a table with all the mayors in the area was approved. I shall conclude my explanation of vote by announcing our vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Grasso and Group M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u158	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, appreciate the circumstances, as we say in cases like this, I will be very quick. I think it is right to do so, because the climate is from "break the lines" as it was inevitable. I would like to point out that in my parliamentary experience, which is not very short, this is the first time that we have been working in a somewhat Kafkian situation: we are converting a decree-law of a government resigning to loose chambers; it is not an ordinary situation of work. I say this because I believe, in turn, that a serious mistake has been made in not confirming with the necessary numbers the trust in the Government Dragons; a serious error whose responsibilities we will inevitably analyze in the electoral campaign, but they are obvious to everyone. As in so many other circumstances, we also pay for the error in this case, because the decree-law that we are about to vote could have improved much more than we could have done if we had had an ordinary situation of confrontation between the Government, the Commission and Parliament. That is the way things have gone and we trust in a more orderly legislative process and allow us to continue the great work done by the last government and also by the previous one of which the Democratic Party was a member. This measure is part of a package of measures aimed mainly at improving the administrative procedure and speeding up the implementation of public works. It is a very important measure in my view, which, fortunately - if next week the House meets to confirm our vote - we will be able to convert to law. I would like to point out, for example, that the measure concerns mainly two cities, and not two smaller cities. The first is Rome: there is the possibility of speeding up the works necessary for the Jubilee, a great appointment that the whole world looks at and that strongly calls Rome and the whole country into question. In the same way, there is a strong attention to the city of Venice, trying to conjugate the possibility to make the crocieristico landing place easier, although inside a protection of the environment and the lagoon that can never fail. As far as I am concerned, it is also important to enlarge ports of national importance, both in Sicily and in Abruzzo, and a whole series of significant measures on which the PD has been spent in particular, obtaining the approval of several amendments. I list them very quickly. With Amendment 12.12 (text 4) we do a very important operation: we make it possible for the prefectures to assume 700 additional units; we therefore strengthen the Ministry of the Interior, at a stage in which the Dicastery itself had and has a very great need to be strengthened for the issues clearly known to all, from security up to the realization of the projects of the PNRR. It is no small thing to be able to hire 700 permanent staff! Another very important innovation I believe has been introduced with amendment 6.0.3 (text 2): we take a fundamental step about the choice that we made in the last legislature of getting ANAS into the perimeter of Ferrovie dello Stato. An intelligent operation, but one that needed an effort of integration between different societies, and not juxtaposition. Well, with Amendment 6.0.3 (text 2) we do this work. Again, with amendment 4.0.3 (text 3) we give a better functionality, once again, to the port authorities. With Amendment 12.6 (text 3) we give better work to the VIA and VAS Commissions. The amendment signed by my colleague Bruno Astorre will make it possible to speed up the process of implementation of Roma-Latina, which we have been talking about for years. We, like Mr Ripamonti, have given an important aid to the issue of the Venosa cable car, and Mr Mirabelli has approved his own amendment - concerning the A24-A25 - concerning the social safeguard clause for workers, which is very important to us. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that I can be proud, on behalf of the PD, to have worked as a Group - and, when we are concerned, in the Government - for a process of speeding up and simplifying all the matter relating to public works. The maximum point will be in the procurement code, when the implementing decrees are ready. Unfortunately, - and that is another reason for not being happy - it will not be this legislature, with the present Parliament, that will discuss the implementing decrees, which are currently being processed by the Council of State; but we have done the law revising the Procurement Code and - believe me - I think we can be absolutely proud of the work done by all the forces. Here, the figure of this measure is also helping the country to be quick in the realization of public works and looking at transport as a world in which efficiency must always add economic, social and environmental sustainability. On the other hand, sustainability is only such if it looks at all three of these issues. That is why, with some satisfaction, I believe I can declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u161	VONO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, it is almost obvious that we are voting in favour of an emergency measure at this stage, at which the Government and Parliament are engaged in activities which are limited to current affairs. Precisely for this reason it is good, albeit briefly, to dwell on some elements characterizing a decree that brings urgent provisions for the safety and the development of the infrastructures, but that also includes some norms in the matter of great events, such as the Jubilee of Rome of 2025 and the functionality of the Ministry of infrastructures and sustainable mobility. The debate we had in the Commission requires respect; it has been long and complicated and it has required calm and patience... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u162	Colleagues, it is really very difficult to carry out this last part of the work of this House, to which it is not really mandatory and binding to attend by speaking out loud. Please allow the speaker and others to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u163	Please, Senator Vono. VONO (FIBP-UDC). I was saying that the debate has been complicated, even in the face of forecasts that are not entirely acceptable. We had to reason and find a square. I am referring not so much to technical aspects, but to political issues which, as Senators Mallegni and Pagano have already said, could affect decisions of the administrative judiciary, already called into question in order to intervene on delicate situations which, from a speech limited to motorway concessions, involve companies, dealers and therefore directly workers. Let me say in a simple and frank way that for a party like Forza Italia, historically close to the demands of entrepreneurs and workers, even more in these months of great emergency, the piece that has been placed seemed worse than the hole. The criticalities have not compromised more than so much the wide confrontation between us senators of every political force and the Government, which I thank, in the people of the undersecretary Bini and vice minister Morelli, for the sharing realized and for the work carried out. This decree intervenes, among many, on a very topical and felt topic, such as hydrogeological failure and drought, with urgent measures in the field of water infrastructure for the construction, maintenance and safety of dams, as well as simplification activities for the procedures relating to the adoption of the regulation governing the approval of projects. Provision is also made for the establishment of a fund, in the estimates of the MIMS, up to a maximum of EUR 1 million per year, for the recognition of incentives for non-directive employees for function activities and technical supervision of work for dams and their operation. Clearly, we would have wanted to do more. We had proposed, through the National Plan to combat drought, the establishment of a fund for the construction of new invaders to collect rainwater and the creation of new floating plants for the production of hydroelectric and photovoltaic energy, which however has not found acceptance, but remains a point on which we hope to return. The measure also intervenes for a structural adaptation and a modernization of the infrastructural park of the Harbour offices, Coast Guard, Arma dei carabinieri and Guardia of finance all over the national territory. In this case too, an amendment has not been accepted for the redevelopment and enhancement of the surrounding structures and areas, with an ultra-decent programme, proposed in this decree, that takes into account the construction of new buildings, with annexed appliances, furnishings and urban areas, also thinking of the heritage of public housing that has a high maintenance need, always in the matter of adaptation of the structures, energy efficiency and anti-seismic resistance. In this measure we have managed to bring in some rules concerning road safety and coordination rules in some specific areas of national and European legislation. We have intervened, among many things, to exclude, for example, the limitations, which have hitherto been foreseen and contrary to Community law, to special licences, which cause serious discomfort to people with disabilities and on whom much still needs to be worked, because ensuring fragile people is very important in a fundamental area such as mobility. With regard to air transport, we had tabled, without achieving the desired result, an amendment, at the first signature of Senator Bernini, to guarantee a little breathing space for companies in the sector and to protect the employability of employees, providing for the establishment of a fund with existing resources, that is fed by unused residual amounts, already allocated to ENAC, to mitigate the economic effects on the entire airport sector, resulting precisely from the emergency caused by the epidemic, in order to allocate them to investment programmes of airport management companies. However, despite these critical issues that the decree presents in a clear and clear way, we will vote favorably, because, at such a difficult time, every drop is fundamental to bring water to the ocean, just as Mary Teresa of Calcutta claimed: \ without that drop the ocean would be smaller. We will strive precisely to make possible and concrete, in the near future, the hopes around that ocean of opportunities, animated by the desire to rise from a dark period for the economy, for society, but above all for politics, which must return to being protagonist, having the citizen at the centre, in an Atlanticist and European framework. For this reason, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, I voted in favour of converting this decree-law into law. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u166	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in thanking the members of the Government who followed the measure, the rapporteurs and the whole Commission, I would ask you to submit the written text of my speech, in order to be published in the annex to today's report, and to announce the support of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u167	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u170	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, first of all I would like to thank the whole Commission for the great work it has done these days, President Coltorti, the offices of the Commission, which have done important supporting work throughout the legislature and the Government itself, which is very patient with regard to the Commission's requests. Today we are converting a decree-law which, as some other colleagues have already explained, has found a somewhat special condition. We are in fact in loose Chambers and examine a decree-law presented by the resigning Government. The Commission initially intended to work and to have the Ministries work on the more than 500 amendments tabled, because it was indeed the intention of all the Members of the Commission to look into the issues of this decree-law, which really affects the most important issues affecting the lives of citizens. Are we talking about the code of the road and what impacts more on the lives of citizens, who go down the street, use cars and are forced to smell and live in an environment polluted by CO2 emissions from cars with old combustion engines? In addition to that, I should still be given the opportunity to give myself an inscription. Today we are talking about a decree-law, which is based on the matter of simplification, because what Italy needs today is to be able to invest capital from Europe, which in the summer of 2020 the then President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, managed to bring us. So the departure is given by the degree of simplification and the degree of correctness that Italians will be able to demonstrate in investing these money. We are talking about infrastructure and sustainable mobility, which are the cornerstones of the planning linked to the PNRR. In this decree the topic of sustainable mobility is very much touched on and issues related to school mobility manager are touched on; we have approved an amendment that provides for regulations that can simplify and improve the whole context related to the education and education of children at school, considering the school institution as the foundation of the realization and growth of children. (Brusio). I'm trying to shorten (what you asked me to do). During the work of the Commission, however, the Movimento 5 Stars wanted to give a clear imprint to this decree-law. We are talking about the objectives of the PNRR and in particular the mission 2 green revolution and ecological transition. I want to highlight the approval of measures aimed at favouring the installation of photovoltaic panels within the perimeter of relevance of the airports of the smaller islands, to promote the ecological transition in the field of nautical from diporto, with the establishment of a fund that goes to stimulate the substitution of the endothermic motors fueled from fossil fuels with motors to electric supply. This is the strong impulse that the Movimento 5 Stars as a Group wanted to give with this amendment. In another amendment, which is widely shared with my colleagues in the Commission, we are talking about road safety and traffic. We are talking about the introduction of measures to promote the concentration of the implementing arrangements and the ceilings of the tariffs applicable to the ZTL zones, which can be established by the municipalities for environmental purposes (we are always back to the same theme). In addition, requests from more than one group were accepted in relation to the maintenance of the qualifications of MIMS staff examiners. There are many other issues, but what led us to discuss and to be late tonight was precisely the amendment of the Government, which inserted the decree highways within this decree-law; therefore we approve two decrees in one. This is an amendment which withdraws the concession of the motorway network consisting of the A24 and A25 motorways for serious failure of the concessionaire. We have to be clear, because these days we have seen all kinds of things. In the last few days we have witnessed yet another attempt to rehabilitate the lords of the toll booth, by all the center-right forces. We then ask ourselves how many other speculations we have to attend to parade once and for all the management of our public infrastructure to those who have distinguished themselves for carelessness and sloppiness, after decades of disproportionate revenues and investments in virtually zero modernization. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What else must happen to scratch the shameful status quo of motorway concessions? The witch hunting climate, which broke out after the government's resignation last week, perhaps, after the dynamics of the last few days and hours, can make us ask a question mark on what the real destabilizers of the majority have been. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have to ask ourselves this question, in order to be intellectually correct (with citizens, for goodness sake, not with ourselves). For our part, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars I would like to thank my colleagues from LEU and in particular Senator De Petris for supporting the approval of some amendments, in particular the sub-amendment aimed at guaranteeing workers who will be employed by ANAS SpA the maintenance of the economic and regulatory conditions provided for by the national collective agreement of employment applied by the company of origin and also the safeguarding of the level of classification and seniority acquired by these workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have certainly improved the measure. Another amendment has also been accepted, which I am very proud of, because it comes from exactly the territory from which I come. This is the establishment of a technical table in which mayors on the same route will participate, who will be able to make a contribution when a priority is to be established for the planning of maintenance work. A maintenance that has been to the honour of the chronicles for a long time on the A24-A25. In addition, they will finally be able to speak with the governing bodies when they are going to define the new toll rates, and I remind you that we are talking about one of the most expensive motorways in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to go too far, but there have been a number of issues. I also feel I have to thank the Government for having demonstrated a great availability in welcoming some modifications requested for some time from the local authorities and I refer in particular to the insertion of the port of Vasto in the Authority of harbour system of the central Adriatic sea and that of the port of Sciacca in the Authority of harbour system of the sea of eastern Sicily. Finally, I would like to remind you of an amendment proposing an experimental plan called "Dateci spazio" aimed at the creation and re-functionalization of existing public urban spaces and intended for young people according to an urban model of smart cities, smart, inclusive and sustainable cities. I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that at other times we could have worked better and more and improved this decree further, but I would also like to remind you that something has led us to the situation we are in today and it is the lack of dialogue, the possibility of dialogue of the Member of Parliament: the function of Parliament itself has recently been taken away from us and perhaps this has led us to such a situation. That capacity for dialogue, however, in these days, despite everything, in the 8th Commission, we have been able to dialogue in spite of the economic and, above all, political situation, of all political forces, one against the other. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is for all these reasons that I have listed - but there are many others - that I declare on behalf of the Movimento 5 Group the vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u171	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 68 of 16 June 2022 laying down urgent provisions for the safety and development of infrastructure, transport and sustainable mobility, as well as for major events and for the functionality of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Senator Zaffini's comments.]] Senator, I understand that you want to anticipate some changes in the way this House works, but you will have to wait for the next legislature, I believe.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u174	GRANATO (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, OVALmedia is a European platform dedicated to the circulation of information and documentary material fundamental to the exercise of democracy in our country, can be compared to a European WikiLeaks. That's why YouTube suddenly decided yesterday afternoon to block its spread on its channels. In Italy, despite continuing to pay for it, we have been deprived of a state television that does free and plural information. We Members of the CAL Group are regularly excluded from every area of state television where the government narrative is placed which stifles any public debate on topical issues or the controlled opposition. The political forums have been replaced by moralist talk shows, they are always mediated in the perspective of a Manichaean contrast between good and evil, right and wrong, good and bad, without any historical contextualization, neither political, neither scientific, nor social. The official narration is good by definition, everything else is fake news, but no one ever opens a debate on what are the sources on which the official narration is actually built, which are those that make the difference between what is true and what is false. Private platforms like YouTube, after having secured a wide audience of memberships, now make policy for the power centers that control them through the markets, who take advantage of the deregulation of the sector, carry out a targeted censorship without providing explanations, silent from today to tomorrow any independent information. On the other hand, in our democratic Western world, we have had to witness the condemnation of Julian Assange, the proscription lists of independent journalists and politicians against government positions, silenced in the enclosures built by the system with various derogatory nomenclatures, including no vax and filoputinians. We are faced with an unprecedented attack on the democratic, political, social and cultural fabric of our country and when we replace this ruling and non-directed political class, the pluralism and reliability of information, the transparency of decision-making processes will be the basis of what will finally become a free, democratic and capable of self-determinating country. In this unexpected electoral round, we are faced with a challenge made deliberately difficult by a collection of signatures during the weeks of August. But we know that most citizens in the country no longer agree to link their destinies to the delusions of international finance. We will give this audience a voice, so that this abusive occupation of the institutions will end once and for all. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u177	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 July it is World Day and the fight against hepatitis. This is a further and important opportunity to reflect and, above all, to disseminate information on a complex pathology, still widespread all over the world. It is estimated that 400 million people affected by various forms of hepatitis are present on our planet; but what is even more striking is that the percentage of people who do not know they have contracted the infection is still very high. The WHO slogan contains the driving points to fight and win hepatitis: You know hepatitis. Act now. Knowledge and information are essential prerequisites for an essential programme to implement effective enforcement strategies. WHO data say that every year, even today, 1.5 million people worldwide die from hepatitis. The Alliance against Epitite, which includes patients, researchers, clinicians and associations, is based on common objectives: to raise public awareness and institutions about the relevance of the problem and the need for greater attention to this disease. The World Health Organization wants to draw the attention of governments and civil society to take concrete, effective and immediate preventive measures, such as screening programmes, increasing access to diagnostic tests and facilitating the possibility for patients to benefit from new treatments. For hepatitis B the key is prevention with the vaccine, with Italy that was the tread with Professor Piazza of the University Federico II of Naples; for hepatitis C, instead, there are the new antiviral drugs, which are able to eradicate the virus and have made possible the achievement of clinical results and significant goals, changing what was previously a marked destiny towards cirrhosis and liver cancer. During my institutional task, I contributed concretely, with my own bill, to the creation of a national fund for the activation of screening programmes in each region. This is the only way to bring out and identify the so-called submerged. United against hepatitis, let's win this battle. [[Applause from the Ipf-CD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u178	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-457.ana.u179	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 2 August, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.09 a.m.).
