ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.37 p.m. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 13 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform you that, by decree of today, countersigned by the President of the Council of Ministers, I have appointed Professor Marco D'Alberti as Judge of the Constitutional Court. F.to Sergio Mattarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, with deep emotion I wish to recall a great woman who on September 17 left us prematurely, Maria Grazia Pagano, for all Graziella. I was linked to Graziella Pagano by sentiments of sincere friendship cultivated among the minds of this Assembly, of which it was an authoritative component for four legislatures, from 1992 to 2006. We had different political visions, which led us to confront each other often on small and big issues, but always with great respect. Being in his company was pleasant for that overwhelming sympathy that was one of the most authentic traits of his strong personality. His long and multifaceted career was institutional and party, from the senator's mandate to that of europarlamentare, from the positions as adviser to the City of Naples to the coordination roles, both at regional and national level, for the Democratic Party. A long adventure, which has always been able to interpret with its unmistakable style, extraordinary union of a feminine trait of rare charm and an authentically fighting soul, which found its strategic weapons in intellectual rigor, autonomy of judgment and passion. Many are the battles for his beloved land, for the Mezzogiorno, and for civil and social rights that will remain indissolubly linked to his name. Despite a highly disabling illness, he had chosen to renew his political commitment by running for election for the Chamber of Deputies, not to return, but to represent a community to which I felt I belonged, as he wrote in his moving letter of farewell published on social media, a letter he concluded with his usual smile, inviting his party comrades to continue working in the electoral campaign, because he would have controlled them also from up there. Its history will remain an unforgettable testimony of what it means to pursue a noble vision of politics, a policy that, in the respect of high ideals, can promote the path of an entire community in favour of a future of growth and affirmation for all, even for the most fragile. In renewing my personal and Senate condolences to the family and friends of Senator Graziella Pagano, I invite the Assembly to remember her by observing a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u8	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I guarantee that it is not easy for me to remember Graziella. Graziella, as you taught me, was first of all a friend, a teacher, a caring and wise counselor, a point of reference for many of us. I met Graziella at the age of twenty, during my first experience on the city council; she was a senator and she was part of a group that in the party invested in young women, who taught how to make politics in a context that was still complicated and difficult for us. Graziella was first of all a teacher, she loved to be a teacher and she devoted herself all her life to the theme of the school. Then, as has already been mentioned, she was City Councillor, Senator, Councilwoman of the Minister for Equal Opportunities, European Parliamentary and again Councillor. The fate required that, in due time, as the council member of the Jervolino junta, he should take my own delegations, following my resignation. Many are the positions that Graziella has held in the party, from PCI, passing through the DS, to PD. Finally he had chosen to join Italy Viva, but our human paths, first of all of great friendship and great mutual esteem, have never gone away completely and perhaps in some cases have been strengthened. Graziella has been an authoritative and prominent figure of Neapolitan politics, a recognized protagonist of that team of reformists who in Naples has always expressed many personalities, by President Giorgio Napolitano, to whom Graziella boasted a great and sincere friendship, passing through Gerardo Chiaromonte, Maurizio Valenzi, Carlo Fermariello, Umberto Ranieri: I could remember many and many fellow senators with whom she shared pieces of his institutional and political path, as a woman of the city of Naples and as a woman of the institutions. Graziella was a strong, passionate, determined and courageous woman who, as has already been said, in the Assembly of the Senate held institutional and political roles even in difficult and delicate phases, always with great competence, which was what we all recognized - all of us, women of the Democratic Party of Naples and women of the left and progressive of our city - with great institutional rigour and, above all, a great and enormous authority. He was able to have relations with everyone, to dialogue and mediate even with those who had positions far from his own and those of the political side he represented. She was a woman capable of great and extraordinary relationships, built above all on her brilliant way of keeping relationships, always recognizing in the opponent an interlocutor and never an enemy. His extraordinary generosity and humanity were recognized by all. His only true enemies were demagogy and populism: those he really could not stand and opposed with all of himself and with all the strength he was capable of. As said, his other great political passions, in addition to reformism, were school and women. The school, as a matter of its institutional and political commitment, has never given up, ever since it began, as city councilor, to chair the school commission of the then municipal council, in the first years of its commitment. To women, equally, never: always ready to spend themselves to assert a real female protagonism, autonomous, free and authoritative, in contexts still too masculine, from those within the party to those more institutional. It was part of a journey of women, who both in Rome and Naples has always seen it as a protagonist, in a true relationship of trust, I would say of sisterhood, with many women, beyond the belongings and the deployments of the moment. To this that was much of his life, of course, are added, through the different times and phases, his two great loves: first his son Lorenzo and then her husband Enzo. Enzo, who left a few years ago and who for her has always been a precious and irreplaceable point of reference, and Lorenzo, a true infinite love of his life, to which despite the many institutional and political commitments he has tried to never miss the affection of a mother and the loving and affectionate presence, although often reproaching himself, in my opinion too self-critically, for having done so in the first years of Lorenzo's life. It is to them, of course, to the sister, traveling friend all her life until these last days, that goes mine and - I think I can say it - our most sincere embrace. If I were to say a word that reminds me of Graziella, I would definitely use the word "battles". The battles with you, thanks to you, about school, party, representation and rights of women and many others. You have made so many, won so many and we will remember you like this: great, warrior, extraordinary woman, passionate politics, competent senator. In this last battle you didn't get the better of it, but we'll keep reminding you this way, as we've seen you and known you for a lifetime, beautiful, smiling, blonde, strong, tenacious. Thank you, Graziella. We'll miss you. May the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u11	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too agree with the beautiful words you have just spoken about our colleague Graziella Pagano and the beautiful words of my colleague Senator Valente. I too wish to address a moved thought of closeness and condolence to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Graziella Pagano. As has been said, a woman of rare intelligence, of strong character, of great generosity of mind. I too had the good fortune - like Mrs Valente - to know her when I started my political activity. A woman friend of the women who fought for the affirmation of women, and of young people in a particular way; she encouraged us, she was close to us, she was always positive, she was a passionate woman; as has been said, a true lioness, who died as she had lived: on the field, fighting her political battles to the end, not saving herself even in this electoral campaign, as candidate for the Chamber in Naples with the third Italy Viva-Azione pole. On 9 September last, despite the devastating illness, he did not want to renounce to participate in the inauguration of the Italian electoral committee Viva in Naples together with Matteo Renzi, demonstrating and transmitting to all participants all his love for his ideas, for politics and for his territory. With great dignity and priceless courage, he stood up to the challenges of politics, public responsibilities, private slanders, personal pains. Already elected senator with left-wing democrats in 1992 and then for four legislatures until 2006, she was also co-signatory of the first law to tighten the penalties against sexual violence, always in close contact with the then Minister of Education Luigi Berlinguer. He worked for the implementation of all the rules on school autonomy. You owe the first draft on the Dico, from which the law on civil unions was born. Graziella Pagano was above all this: a woman perpetually above the lines of conventionalism and also of a certain bigotry; she was above this. It certainly belonged to the passionate left, strong, but also progressive, and also with the opponents - who have always recognized its style - was always loyal, correct. For five years he faced the disease by telling it on social media with great generosity, offering his experience to those who shared his dramatic Calvary, intervening on social media also with often controversial but never trivial posts. He continued his political battles also relying on the loving support of his extraordinary son Lorenzo, of many friends and of those who admired her for how she was, in love with life, so strong that she seemed to survive the same news of her own death, announced while still the family had not communicated it. We in Italia Viva would like to remind you by reading here, in this Chamber, a passage of his last words entrusted to social media: Dear friends, dear comrades, my battle ends here. Before I go to the other side, I leave you a big hug and sincere thanks. In these years you have never made me feel alone and I have always felt strong your affection and closeness. That's why I agreed to run. Not to return, but to represent a community to which I felt I belonged. Young and old men and women who have allowed me to do what I have done, in politics and not only, and to whom I will always be bound. Unfortunately my illness got the better of me, but I fought vigorously to the end and I am leaving with my dignity, not allowing it to turn me into what I am not. Now it's time to fly to heaven, I'll go and fight there too. A big hug from down here, Graziella. The Senate has been and will always be your home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u14	PRESUTTO (IPf-CD). Mr President, I too want to bear my own witness and the knowledge of the great Graziella Pagano, who was also a friend to me. I met her, unlike those who preceded me, a long time later; I met her a few years ago. It struck me: it is a woman who leaves her determination, her will, her desire to move forward. I met her when she had already been affected by this very hard illness, which, moreover, as has already been anticipated before by my colleague Sbrollini, she never hid: she practically flaunted it, through social media, as a moment of challenge that in practice saw her committed to winning. The end was not that, but it was an example. I met her on her own initiative. I want to testify to Graziella's great mental openness: I can't call her otherwise, because I had the opportunity to grasp above all the human aspect that then accompanied her great political experience. I knew her long before I had the chance to speak to her, so I knew who she was and what she had done important, especially for the city of Naples, that we share. I got to know the son and the great love that mother and son exchanged, going beyond the relationship that usually binds mother and son: a relationship in which there was admiration, especially of the son, in telling the political activities that the mother has carried out in these years. I repeat, I wasn't lucky enough to be able to see her at work day after day, in her activity in the Senate or as a European Parliamentarian. So this morning I heard his son, Lorenzo, and I asked him: "According to you, your mother today what message would she like to leave to the Senate as her memory at this very delicate time?" He told me these words that I make mine: By Graziella Pagano will be remembered the ability to be respected and to be loyal to everyone, party comrades and opponents. That is why we will miss it, especially at a time like what we are experiencing, because it has taught us that politics must be based primarily on respect for others. Only if you have respect for others, especially those who think differently, can you really represent the community, today very lost and that asks politicians to use a kind, sober, even passionate, but never divisive language. Why did I want to report these sentences that belong to Graziella Pagano, pass through his son and get to me? There are many and countless phone calls with which you and I exchanged evaluations, but especially during which I listened to your advice. Graziella Pagano and I were part of two different political forces, even in some ways hostile, but she never had any limits. So I want to testify to those who have known her great sensitivity, great humanity, great determination: all positive values that unfortunately make us regret a great woman who, as a demonstration of her firmness and determination, even despite the illness had decided to present itself in the next elections. We will always remember it as a great example of virtue and positivity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u17	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, compared to the testimonies that preceded me, born of a knowledge and a political friendship made of sharing ideas and battles fought on the same side, my personal knowledge of Graziella begins almost at the end of the political parable and certainly takes place in a very different context and in a very different context. Graziella has been ill for a long time: one of those diseases that starts sneaky, that can last for many years and then at some point fall down and put you to yourself with what could be at the same time the mirror of life that you have lived and the perspective that you have before. I have always been deeply impressed by his love for life; not only by his love for political life and not only by his love for life with his all Neapolitan liveliness, which led him to forget even the small difficulties and contradictions that sometimes in illness are like those stings that leave you exhausted. It is not so much the disease itself, but the drawbacks of everyday life in the disease that can make it difficult to endure the same therapies. But she had a real love for life. I was very impressed by this desire to live, which has been translated, until the end, in the last great passion of wanting to run and wanting to do it in a political context different from that of origin, as was that of Italia Viva (as Daniela Sbrollini said well a while ago), in a perspective of the third pole, that is, in a perspective that in some way overturned many games, overturned a story and overturned many choices, but marked strong and clear the desire to live. Even in his statement on Facebook he appears this constant and continuous struggle with the disease. Not by chance, signing the letter with which he concludes his dialogue with his friends, with the voters and with the people who followed him, he signs "the lioness." There is a desire to fight in positive and not to resign. I would like to take up some of your words, as some colleagues have already said. I, as you can easily imagine all of you, can't resist emphasizing this woman's dominant passion for life and I can't resist emphasizing that strong message that she was able to convey to her doctors, to her nurses and to all the people who came to her: it was a desire for care. We have sometimes talked with her also about the value and importance of palliative care, that is, that ability to fight and love, the desire to care even when it seems that specific medicines have exhausted their role and their task. It says: "Dear comrades, my battle ends here. Before going to the other side, I leave you a big hug and sincere thanks." Graziella had clear in her life those extraordinary phrases of the liturgy, when it is said vita mutatur et non tollitur. For her, life changed, passed the other way. There was a dimension of faith in life - I don't want to go any further - that made you feel the continuity between what you were, what you were and what you could be, according to a dialogue in which faith in human values deeply interwoven not only political passion, but also superior passion. Yours is an extraordinary statement, which perhaps we would like to think: "On September 25th I'll be in heaven." Then, with a polite irony and full of measure, he said, "if they want me." I am sure that in paradise they have already welcomed her and that the 25 will be there to watch what will happen below; and she will do so by testifying to the last that life is worth living. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u20	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to express the condolences of the League Group on an authoritative figure, a mix of elements that embodied in its path of human, professional and political life, between culture, grit, civil passion, courage and intelligence; that intelligence that is also read in the last post, quoted by those who preceded me, where he said, with his usual irony and with extreme intelligence that his seat will now start in heaven. And he invited us not to despair, not to shed tears, because the time has come to fly to heaven, where I will go to fight and where they will also know her. He did not want to know sad the entire political community to which he belonged and the family members, to whom mine and our thoughts go. A woman of great civic and political commitment: are known her battles on the custody and defence of rights, fundamental rights, rights as well as altered and unbalanced, also in the course of a pandemic that had already seen her suffering for the going ahead and the encumbering of the health path; those rights - that mix of balance between right to study, right to health, right to freedom of economic initiative and right to work - which leaked from her words, in her public interventions, that have always proved to be never trivial, pregnant, relevant to a changing world and with a series of social, economic, environmental and criminal criticalities, to which the land to which she belonged, to which I belong, still lives for a series of problems and incrustations of the past. In his memory and in his name we will move forward, knowing that we have a certain guide and perspective. I'm gonna renew my condolences again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u23	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, the first time I saw her, a few decades ago, at a political meeting, I thought she was a beautiful woman. Then, as she spoke, I said she was an extraordinary woman. It was Graziella Pagano. Even beyond the political and institutional path, which has always led with commitment, loyalty and honor, she was strong, determined, ready to do anything to defend a just cause, beginning with civil unions. In every political step and in every institution, where it represented the strength of women, it has always taken into proper account the issue of women, in times when it seemed very far away the idea of being able to reason to protect the issue of women. He lived the last five years of his truly beautiful life in the trenches, never giving up on the evil he wanted to take away. He had not given up - as my previous colleagues have said - not even his candidacy: I'll play my part in heaven if they want me. So he wrote in his last post and was right again: September 25 will not be here with us. The former senator was the promoter of the so-called DICO, the first Italian draft law on the right of cohabitants: the first bill - let's repeat it - in support of civil unions and not only. His battles, in his long life as an exponent of the left, were mainly in support of the weakest, who led with commitment and strength, to bring schools to the most abandoned neighborhoods of his city. I remember her commitment to the world of school, from which she came - she had taught literary subjects for a long time - before starting a political career that even today gets the right recognition, the value that she actually wanted to bring in her life for all of us. There is also another detail that struck me about your political affair: you, as a Member of Parliament, were co-signatory of the first law to tighten the penalties against sexual violence. At a time when these arguments are still so strong in daily discussions, it is important to remember also those who have waged such fundamental battles for women's lives. "I will be in Paradise (if they want me) " - he wrote - "My seat will click there (...). But you guys don't mess around, just keep working because from up there I can control you more easily. My time on the ground is up, I'll send you one last kiss. Goodbye. Thank you, lioness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u24	I now learn of the disappearance of Virginio Rognoni, one of the greatest politicians of the twentieth century. I would like to offer my condolences to the family and to the Senate, dedicating a minute's silence to their memory, before giving the floor to those who requested it to commemorate it. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u27	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, the special circumstances in which the Senate meets, in the middle of the electoral campaign, exempt me from the possibility of commemorating how Mr Rognoni would deserve, which has been - as you said - for a long time to the government of the country: five years Minister of the Interior, Minister of Defence, Minister of Justice, Vice President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I remember that very well, because he was also my leader in Christian Democracy, President of the Group of Christian Democracy in the House of Deputies. The last time I saw him, I was with a close friend of his, Alan Ferrari, who is our colleague. I went to Pavia, during an initiative; Alan wanted to organize a meeting and I still took the impression of what was Rognoni: a political passion that continued and that was not extinguished, despite the very advanced age, was almost 100 years old. It was a prominent personality - as you said - and I think that the Senate, in the next legislature, will have to remember it more fully, because it really deserves it. It was a fine example of the policy and service of the institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u30	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the disappearance of Virgilio Rognoni touched many of us: those who knew him or those who only heard about him, those who were very close to him, like Senator Ferrari, and those who only remember the history of Italy of the second part of the last century, having been Virgilio Rognoni a political giant and in times very different from those we are living today; these were difficult times to which we owe a lot of respect because dense men who were able to defend our democracy with great courage. Rognoni was a giant among those giants; a very courageous politician who continued until a few days after his disappearance to dispense advice, to help, to intervene, with those who were lucky to meet him, on politics. He was a great gentleman, but he was a gentleman who in his courtesy was able to unite a lot of firmness in his ideas, who could defend like a lion. He was a great Minister of the Interior in the final phase of terrorism, in which violence and death were certainly not inferior to those of previous times. Important decisions must be made to him; I would like to remind him here only of the decision by which he chose General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa as prefect of Palermo to entrust in his hands the fight against the very serious phenomenon of the Mafia. He was not only a political leader: he was a learned man, an intellectual. Politics was a passion for him, as he then had a passion for life. He also had a great deal of attention to the maturation of political thought. I think that this should be a point on which to reflect in times like ours, in which political thought - let us say the truth - is often very weak. We must remember this not only because of his affection for so many of us, but also and perhaps above all because of the integrity of his life and the very high coherence of his political commitment. For us democrats a great friend has disappeared, one of us and, as such, we mourn him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u31	I had already said goodbye and thanked you last week. Since we are together, I am very pleased, because this has been our common home for four years. [[Applause]] , renew thanks for the support given in a very difficult legislature. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the administration that has really done an important job. [[Applause]] , albeit always silent. Thanks again. We do not have to say that we do not triple our thanks. Thanks anyway, thank you all. 15.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u32	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders has modulated the times for discussion of Decree-Law No 115, concerning urgent measures in the fields of energy, water emergency, social and industrial policies, so-called aid-a decree, approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. For the general discussion were attributes twenty-three minutes based on specific requests from the Groups. As no amendments have been tabled, except for two inadmissible agendas, then the final explanations of vote will be taken directly, for which each group will have five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2685-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators D'Alfonso and Pesco, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u34	Mr President, I reserve the right to hand over the written text of my speech to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u35	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u36	Mr President, I also reserve the right to hand over the written text of my speech to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u37	I declare the general discussion open. Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u38	Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, if your rightful execution for the cancellation of the ceiling on the salaries of top executives had concerned, during this parliamentary term, other areas and norms which are equally shameful and contrary to the public interest, we would probably now leave a better country, especially in the environmental field and in the civil rights field, which are mostly absent from the electoral programmes of the great coalitions. This House, with very few exceptions, is responsible for violence, because the rule that derogated from the limit of EUR 240,000 for salaries was born in Parliament and voted by you in the relevant Commissions. [[Applause]] Other than hand: it is a leitmotiv that is convenient to convey to gather public opinion in the electoral campaign. Today my speech is also aimed at pointing out that the amendment that we are called upon to vote to re-introduce a ceiling on the salaries of top executives is both responsible and presumable. I mean that this rule, one of the few common sense within the aid-a decree, is an act due to the galloping inflation, the rise in rates and the risk that our already fragile economy may be the victim of the current crisis, making us a special overseer at international level. We do not talk about the social impact that the cancellation of the roof would have in terms of trust towards the institutions and, therefore, with reference to the truthfulness between politics and the real country. I shall conclude by addressing my colleagues and colleagues directly, particularly those who have been involved in their re-election in recent weeks. For the approval of the decree- bis you have given yet another demonstration of the inability to understand that the crisis has become structural and, therefore, the political maneuvers to transform the subsidies from temporary to permanent will only create in the short term a balance of difficult management. The Draghi course, then, did everything to complete the privatisation of Italian strategic assets. We continue to be at the mercy of the markets and of the interests of the large energy groups which, precisely because of privatisation, will have - and already have - the opportunity to choose their investments. I think of the smaller islands, for example. It is easy to think that their logic will move not in the wake of the social state, unfortunately now disappeared, but on the line of convenience and non-public interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u39	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, five days after the elections, we are here today for the unexpected third reading of the Aid-A Decree-Law. The reason why we are gathered here is to correct, that is to delete unanimously a rule that this same Senate approved not later than a week ago, and I refer to the infamous Article 41-a. Without entering into the content of an at least improvised rule, what - in my opinion - makes valuable today's sitting of this House is the possibility of sharing, as the last act of this legislature, the need to call to a transversal commitment the legislators of the next, in order to put an end to an irresponsible practice in the way of lawmaking, that today's affair exemplifies once again to our eyes and, of course, to those of the citizens. I am referring to the practice which, in the course of the work of the parliamentary committees for the conversion of decree-laws, sees the addition of the most disparate texts, introduced under the label of rewording of amendments, but which actually empty them of the original content; they are new texts, equipped with the precious technical report boiled and generically related to the wishes of the Commissions. Complicates at night, having to continue work at a tight pace even on public holidays and the substantial unknowableness of the final texts, these additions are approved and offered to the public as facts accomplished, even in the surprise of many of you to whom I asked. And I understand that the fact becomes so because those who insert the intruder rule a few days after the expiry of the decree-law have the mathematical certainty that the other branch of Parliament will only be able to approve the text in bulk without amendments. Of this mode of action, able to frustrate all your and our accurate work, every will and possibility of control by the parliamentarians, I myself was aware in the course of the Senate's work relating to the bill n. 2564, of the conversion of the so-called decree-price cutting law, adopted in March 2022 to counter the economic and humanitarian effects of the Ukrainian crisis. At the beginning of May, in circumstances I would call lucky, thanks to the work of many of you on a Saturday evening (late evening) I learned from some colleagues in the Assembly that someone, presumably at the Ministry of Economics and Finance, in giving an opinion on the coverage of an amendment on mobility of teachers of the school of childhood, had completely rewritten the text, adding paragraphs without any connection with the subject of the decree-law, aimed at modifying the competences of Arexpo, the requirements for the nomination of candidates for the presidency of Istat and finally the discipline of the research center known as Human Technopole Foundation, a subject that I have followed for six years. For Human Technopole, even a rule was inserted contrary to the provisions of the 2019 Budget Law, aimed at totally frustrating the commitments entered into by MEF, the Ministry of University and Research (MUR) and the Ministry of Health with the foundation, in the context of a convention signed by these parties, whose effect was to postpone to the time of the never the free access and the opening of that infrastructure to hundreds of researchers, researchers who had meanwhile been asked to tell theirs about what was to be done in that infrastructure and were therefore involved in a public consultation that really involved hundreds of researchers. That intruder rule totally frustrated everything. Thanks to the timely intervention of some of you, those rules were partly expunged and partly declared inadmissible. But the mere fact that they were conceived and presented in that way makes the idea of the criticalities with which high administration feels that it can translate political desires or worse its own in the legislative process. And the rule without fathers, of which we are going to ratify today the suppression carried out by the House, had the merit at least to bring scandal and to induce the Chambers to correct. It is an exceptional rejection mechanism on a not uncommon fact. I would remind you that perhaps democratic toxicity lies also and above all in the opacity of the decisions that Parliament is taking. Political opacity means that it is almost impossible for the citizen to understand who has asked what, how and why and, if it is not clear, he can never be called to his own responsibility for the purposes and effects of what has been proposed. That is why I am convinced every day more than one of the great merits of the parliamentary institution, the direct expression of popular sovereignty, is advertising, the free and public confrontation downstream of which legislative decisions are taken. The shorthand, the verbal, the audio recordings are the extraordinary form that becomes substance. On the recognizability of the decisions made here are also based the freedom and power of the citizen, to be expressed by the vote, to reward with his confidence a party or personality compared to another. We can't let this trust deal go away. These ills of legislation - as you have taught me - are universally known, often listed here in the Chamber by those who wear oppositions, listed in all reports of the Committee on Legislation, ubiquitous in the editorials of newspapers and in scientific journals in the field. But, if the evil is known, the will to break this circuit until today latita and, despite the recent amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I believe that little has been done to break this circuit, so perhaps with some coordination with the House you can perhaps do something. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). I close, Madam President, by saying that recognizing a lack of us or perhaps a need for Parliament could be the best basis for convincing the next legislators to innovate practices and regulations that have ended up seriously compromising the parliamentary function. This is one of those small reforms that everyone complains about, but that like a mirage in the desert never seems to come. [[Applause]] I would ask that the full text of my speech be attached.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u41	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u42	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating has returned to the Senate, where we voted on it last week, because it had to be blocked - this is the exact term - a rather strange amendment, containing the derogation from the ceiling of EUR 240,000 for salaries at the top of the public administration. Of course, everyone says that they knew nothing about this amendment: who knows, will it be true? It's a little hard to believe this version. However, I would like to point out - and I am not only addressing my colleagues and the House, but also to the fishermen and farmers, fellow travellers of my mandate - that, even at the time of the approval of the aid decree to the House, I have again tabled the amendments for the agriculture and fisheries sector, and in particular the financial moratorium, which is so necessary for the companies that are failing. I must tell you, however, that no one here, except my group colleagues, has signed the amendments and voted on them. Therefore, dear friends of farmers and fishermen, do not believe those who now come to tell you that a financial moratorium is necessary and fundamental for small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture and fisheries in difficulty, because they are just and simply vain electoral promises. In fact, if they wanted to fight for this amendment, they could have done so with me and in the examination of this decree-law, for a resumption of the farms that - as we know - are in difficulty, so much so that 70,000 farms in the agriculture sector are already closed. Remember that, friends fishermen and farmers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u45	Mr President, I am pleased that we can also speak at the third reading, as provided for in our order. We would have liked to have done so - as it would have been more than right - also for budgetary laws and we hope that, in the new legislature, Parliament will be able to make its best use of it. However, let us go without delay to the point, which is why we are meeting here today. Let's be clear to the citizens: if today the decree-law arrives in the Assembly at the third reading it is to approve the providential corrective wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars and brought by the Chamber of Deputies to the text of the measure fired a little less than a week ago here in the Senate. We are here because some parties thought well, with a tail blow at the end of the legislature, to eliminate the roof of 240,000 euros to the mega-spends of public managers. Let us also mention the names, because it is right for citizens to know this: it is Forza Italia, the Democratic Party and Italy Viva. The most absurd thing, however, is that only a few days after voting on this unfair rule, PD and Italia Viva have submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment that has been deleted: enough to try today to take the credit for the amendment. Then the question arises spontaneously: why did they approve it? I believe there are two possible answers to this question. At best, they voted without knowing what they were voting for. If that were the case, we do not understand what guarantees such parties would be able to give to those who today think to support them in the next elections. In the worst case, however, it was attempted to give yet another gift to some senior state leaders, hoping that the change would go unordained, except then retract it when instead it acquired, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, a strong media echo. That is why we are here and it is the same reason why the system wants us out of the institutions. If there's one thing you all agree on here, it's just the Aversion to the Movimento 5 Stars. The reason for this should perhaps be explained to the public. Is it because we want to try to restore the caste's privileges or to adopt rules such as the one that is being removed today, without any control? I believe that this is the intention of the old policy, as emerges from the statements, not even a little audience, of the one that the center-right indicates as a possible future minister of justice, Nordio, currently candidate with the Brothers of Italy. Let's say that, once again, we are the only ones who show us different from those who have always lived these Palaces, different from the old politics that wants to restore parliamentary immunity and vitality, raise the salaries of public managers and maybe even parliamentarians themselves. As a 5 Star Movement, however, since our entry into the institutions we have done one simple thing: we have cut off privileges! [[Applause]] There was no need for laws, but the simple will was enough: we promised and we did. Do you have any idea of the suffering that the country is experiencing today, because of the dear energy? Families and businesses are on their knees, they can't pay the utilities and, even, to do so now they are asked to contract other debts. Here is the reality outside these rooms: a reality of which those who voted on this rule have no contience. I want to say to the citizens that those who are voting today to eliminate it only a few days ago agreed to introduce it. They are the same parties that for half a legislature have ignored our request to introduce a minimum hourly wage, to help those who earn 3 or 4 euros per hour and cannot bring a hot plate to the table. [[Applause]] While the other Member States throughout Europe are even raising it, we have remained among the six countries that have not yet introduced it. Today there is no room for active repentance for those who voted for this filthy rule only a week ago and the citizens have understood it. I would like to remind you of a sentence by Adriano Olivetti, who voted on that amendment should keep in mind more often: "no manager, not even the highest in a position, must earn more than 10 times the amount of the lowest wage." It is a phrase that contains a simple concept, but at the same time revolutionary. Perhaps it is a utopia today, but certainly a moral rule to which I believe that a prudent and conscientious legislator should be inspired, especially when it comes to public money, and even more so at a time of so great suffering for the country. I conclude by saying goodbye to the leaders of "One day as a sheep": it is the right way to irony also on politics. I claim a brief but significant rhyme: many leaders are saying: without me there is no hope, but consensus is growing for those who have style and elegance. I'm talking about Giuseppe Conte, whom destiny has entrusted to us. The pencils are ready, he's the best candidate! Long live Italy. Long live Movimento 5 Stars! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u48	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, about the inadmissibility of the G11000 agenda, as we would save EUR 0.5 billion by extending summer time... Excuse me, Senator Ciampollo, what are you asking to intervene for? CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). I would simply like to know the reasons for the inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u49	In the meantime, it does not concern modified parts of the measure, and that is why it is inadmissible. The general debate is closed. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. As already announced, the agendas of the G11000 and G16,000 are declared inadmissible, pursuant to Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u52	PRESUTTO (IPf-CD). Mr President, I will be very quick. The Group Together for the Future voted in favour of the measure. It is, however, also appropriate to highlight the criticality that led us to a third reading in this case: an act that was necessary to remedy an amendment that last time went unruly. It is clear that Parliament has responsibility in these cases, because we voted for that measure. But it is also right to point out that it was a situation of particular criticality: we had a very limited time, there was the need to convert that decree-law very important for the interests of the country - let's talk about economic aid to businesses and families - and we had to put our colleagues in the House in the conditions of being able to discuss it. However, a serious fact has happened, which must be highlighted: we have all been accused by the citizens for disenchantment. Clearly, we take responsibility for it because we voted for it, but it deserves careful consideration throughout the procedure that has led those blessed reformulations not to be evaluated not by one person, but practically by all the parliamentary groups, in particular by the Budget and Finance Commissions. I am a member of the Budget Commission, but I can absolutely not only absolve myself, but my colleagues on both committees who were not in a position to understand what was happening. This has fueled a criticism and even the intervention of the President of the Republic, with the need to be present today, and we have a sense of responsibility. That passage deserves a reflection and also requires the need to identify the responsibilities of those rewordings that came at a particular moment, which has put Parliament's capacity in difficulty, and has not allowed us to assess in full knowledge what we are voting on. The objective responsibility is ours, but there is a distorting dynamic of the facts that has deceived us. So - I repeat - we assume responsibility, but we raise a moment of general criticism that will have to be evaluated so that episodes like those, at a dramatic time for the country, do not recur again. In any case, I confirm the vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u55	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Madam President, sanctions are working, time is revealing that these measures are increasingly effective: it is the mantra of the Head of Government to try to convince and self-convince. It works, yes, but tens of thousands of companies, due to the high increases in electricity and gas bills, have already closed or will be forced to close, while the "Government of the best" led by Draghi - the worst disaster for the rights and interests of the Italian people - even denies, refuses to make a budgetary deviation of at least 30 billion, for fear of increasing the debt. He is in the United States and I wanted to inform him that on February 17, 2021 - date that the Italians will remember for a long time for harassment and serial angeries suffered after the vote of confidence to the worst government of recent history - all economic indicators have worsened: inflation at 8.4 percent, tariff increases for about 3,000 euros per family, interest rates that involve thousands of euros more per year on loans and loans, euro-dollar exchange under parity. The notorious public debt, thanks to the "best" has reached 2,770 billion in July, with 167 billion more, at a rate of 9.8 billion per month, 327 million per day, 13 million per hour, 226,666 euro per second, despite the positive rebound of the economy, the increase of GDP and employment largely due to the much-vaunted superbonus. The sanctions are working: the mantra of Draghi three days ago, illustrating the so-called aid-ter decree, when it launched the accusation, as a true connoisseur, to the alleged puppets paid. He was the one who, as Francesco Cossiga said, was paid by his Goldman Sachs companions. [[Applause]] Beyond the fraudulent narration told by... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, obviously you know what I'm about to say: you assume the responsibilities of your words, which in my opinion go far beyond the harsh tones of... LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-ALT-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). As always. And it's gonna get me some time, too. Beyond the fraudulent narration, told by media and news Rai Luce, true reports to tele-Zelensky, reality is stronger than lies. Few consequences for Russia from the stop, as a launch of the AGI agency of September 2nd, which blatantly denies the effectiveness of sanctions. It is instead a dramatic boomerang for tired and impoverished families, with a deadly impact on tens of thousands of businesses, forced to close. According to the analysis of Capital Economics, published by Bloomberg, Russia can afford to close the gas tap to Europe for a year without consequences for its public budget. Moreover, it seems demential to focus the obsessive propaganda of the media in Italy, in the first places for corruption and among the last for freedom of the press, on the impact of sanctions on the Russians, ignoring the dramatic consequences on the Italian people, who will face a harsh winter to the frost. We must go to the roots of the problem, beyond the palliatives of the aid decrees. An article in "The Truth" headlined: Draghi's prestigious game of aid. Not even one euro comes from the new funds. The so much-so-called 66 billion support comes from internal budget shifts or extra-VAT. We need a robust self-criticism about increasing military spending by 16 billion and sending weapons, rather than encouraging diplomacy and negotiations to settle the conflict. There is blind obedience to U.S.-NATO warheads, whose proxy war has strengthened the United States, weakened Europe, impoverished citizens and businesses to gas barrels. [[Applause]] As far as this decree is concerned, I see little support for families and businesses and much propaganda. With a few pearls: Article 29 on the liquidation procedure on Alitalia. The sale of ITA will cost the treasury 980 million euros and there will be yet another one billion more gift for Milan-Cortina, an event sold at zero cost, confirming waste and waste for the usual business Olympics. I close, for the many lovers of the Dragons agenda, who appear to me as afflicted by Stockholm syndrome, that disease that leads to love their executioners. Here, I believe that Italians, despite obsessive media propaganda, aimed at exalting the best, are, like me, immune to that contagious syndrome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u58	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Madam President, it is clear that we are in the Chamber today, a few days after the general elections, to vote at third reading on the decree-law aid- bis for the sole purpose of remedying what happened last week in the Budget and Finance Commissions, when, stealthily, with a real forcing (in institutional jargon it is said "the hand"), an amendment was introduced, in the package of amendments agreed by all the political groups, with the exception of CAL and Italexit, which changed a rule introduced by the Renzi Government, which laid a ceiling on the salaries of senior officials and state leaders. This was certainly an institutional scheming, which weakens Parliament; this is very sorry, especially because it happened at the end of the legislature, using a decree-law that had been issued for businesses and families, at a time of economic and energy crisis and high inflation. Maybe we could avoid it and we could all be a little more careful. Certainly, however, we must thank President Draghi, who promptly intervened with a government amendment, signed and approved by his colleagues in the House, who immediately corrected this distortion and restored the old rule; for this we can only thank him. It is also regrettable that, in the face of a weakening of Parliament, some political forces have tried to blame other political forces, for pure electoral propaganda, for simply complying with the commitments that had been made within the Commissions, namely the commitment to vote in favour of the package of amendments (apart from the two political forces I mentioned earlier). However, for all these reasons, as a political group Italy Viva - Italian Socialist Party, we will vote in favour of the decree-law aid- bis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u61	COMINANCES (PD). Madam President, in renewing the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law aid- bis, a word cannot but be said about the incident that sees us gathered today to give the green light again to the measure and remedy the mistake that was made last week. I would also like to say a few words to my colleague, Mr Lanzi, who, in his general speech, allowed himself to pontificate on the reasons that led other groups to vote in favour of that amendment. Some of my fellow Members have already rebuilt the dynamic in which they have failed to understand exactly the content of the rewording that had come to the Commission. I would like to say to Mr Lanzi and Mr Movimento 5 Stars that you did not vote against that amendment either, and that you too have to change your vote today, because I do not think that you will be abstaining again today. We don't take lessons from anyone. [[Applause]] Instead, I want to link myself to the Senator Elena Cattaneo's words for life. Allow me, Mr President, since we also have students present, who may be somewhat out of line with this debate and the words they hear... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u62	Colleagues, we are at the end of our work. I do not think it is excessive, therefore, to ask you to lower the volume of your voice, so as to get there in an orderly manner and also to be able to listen to the speeches of colleagues. Senator Begin, I invite you to resume your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u63	Mr President, I said that I would like to link myself to the words of the life-sister Elena Cattaneo and in this way, if I may, also to send a message to the students who are guests today at this last sitting of the 18th legislature. In fact, I would not want them to be banned from what they see, who listen and who attend. The legislative process and the way in which amendments submitted by the senators mature, which require the Government's opinion and which are often reworded by the macro-ministerial structure, should be ordered in a very different way. In my last speech, thinking that it was the last, closed saying that I hoped that in the next parliamentary term, by the next Parliament, there might be adequate attention to the protection and enhancement of the legislative process, of the legislative power, which is different from the executive power, which is called upon to implement and implement the rules and guidelines given by Parliament. But the way in which procedures have changed in recent years has made the path leading to the adoption of laws a different one, in fact it is an imbalance that often puts Parliament in a situation of difficulty. The way in which this reformulation has been achieved, which has not allowed any group to be fully aware of what was being voted on in the Commission (this is demonstrated by the fact that today all the political groups will vote differently than that expressed a week ago), is a demonstration of the need for greater care and protection of the legislative power in the balance of constitutional powers. In reaffirming, therefore, the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the decree-law aid- bis, the many measures that the Government has included in it and those that Parliament improved by approving the amendments last week, that this appeal also remains in the act that the ways in which the legislative process takes place find a different balance. A balance that is not only a matter of greater attention to what we are voting on, but indeed of identifying a way for every Member to be fully aware of what he votes, to have the time necessary to know the rewordings and, as far as possible, to have these rewordings really absent from the political representatives of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u64	Senator Begin, I remind you that the Senate has made some changes to its Rules of Procedure, trying to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u67	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, in the meantime we can say: it is a good thing that we have bicameralism. So, when mistakes are made, you can then be able to have another reading to shelter you. It is clear, however, that this also gives rise to a series of reflections, which not only concern the quality of legislation, but also a very clear idea of how we arrive, very often in times even short, to make some reformulations. Mr President, at a time like this when families are in a situation where the country is in a social and economic situation, we obviously believe that it is not right, but absolutely necessary that we take rapid action to eliminate this rule, which was a real slap on the citizens. Perhaps, however, the Government, which rightly submitted the amendment to our examination, just as the deletion amendment was submitted to the House, should ascertain how that reformulation was born. I would like to address the rapporteurs: since the amendment has been passed by many ministries to obtain the nullaosta, it would be curious to know what happened here and it would also have been very important for someone to have taken full responsibility for that reformulation. This is not to absolve the senators who then voted for it, but I think it would have been absolutely necessary. We have witnessed, on other occasions - on the basis of my experience, I could give a thousand examples - an attempt to attach another rule to an amendment, trying to take advantage of the fact that the known version was the previous one. Having said that, it is important that today we immediately shelter what could only be interpreted as a real slap to all the citizens who are experiencing a very difficult time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u68	On behalf of the Senate Assembly, we wish Silvana Sciarra every success, who was elected President of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u69	I greet on behalf of the House the delegation of the young officials of the Confindustria circuit, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u72	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group obviously agrees with this decree-law, which is one of the partial interventions to address the dramatic energy, economic and social events that we are experiencing. It is a piece of an action that had already been initiated with a previous decree-law; a further measure is being finalised in its details and I believe that the new Parliament and the new Government will still have to work on this ground, because the needs of families and businesses are enormous and the cost of energy is the problem that concerns the Italians most, rightly, even these days. We in Forza Italia, moreover, know well that the issue will not be resolved only by decrees, but we need European intervention. That is why both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Tajani, like the Members of the European Parliament, have been calling for Europe to launch another action for months, such as the recovery fund for the Covid-19, to tackle the appropriations for energy and to defend the productive reality of the whole of Europe and Italy. We are committed to continuing this action, but we believe - this will be a chapter that will be addressed in the future - that the causes of the disaster in which we live must be removed. We have been, we are and we will be in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, but let us remember the policy that the Berlusconi governments were able to make by putting the Russians and Americans, the East and the West around a table. [[Applause]] It requires the ability of authentic statesmen to draw a path of peace for the future, protecting the attacked peoples, but removing the causes of speculation and economic aggression. As far as the various details are concerned, I have publicly asked the Government for the clarity and name of those who wrote the rewordings of the Commission's amendment, on which even those who scream today abstained, making it easier for them to do so, because someone wrote the rewording. Forza Italia fought also in this decree only if we talked about the Forces of the Order and the Police Forces [[Applause]] , for which, yes, we want adjustments, but from the basis to the summit, from the summit to the base. I would like to remind you that only our entry into the majority of the Government allowed the renewal of the contract for the security-defense sector that the Giallorossi Government had allowed to rot for three years. [[Applause]] We will start again from the new contract, which has already expired, for the Police and Armed Forces, starting with the base, the police or neighborhood carabinieri, in order to give economic recognitions and necessary appropriations. That is our spirit, together with all the support for the other rules contained in the so-called aid decree, which we have supported in the Commission and which others have slowed down, holding back the provision of funds. In fact, we also wanted clarity on the superbonus 110 percent, but we want real and serious bonuses and not measures that then collapse, leaving businesses and families in desperation. We also want a policy of seriousness on bonuses and construction. We therefore vote in favour of this measure, but we would like some clarity from the Government and it is clear that Forza Italia on construction, police forces and priority issues has a clear, very explicit position, which we repeat today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u75	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in announcing the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier -Sardo d'Action Party to the measure, we take the opportunity to thank all the Presidency Council, the Secretary, the Deputy Secretaries, all the officials, the Commissions, the offices and the assistants for all the work they have done and the support they have given us. I would of course like to express my special thanks to the Government, which has given us the opportunity to meet here all together during the last week of the election campaign, because it has not only given a favourable opinion to an amendment which provided for the transfer of the ceiling to salaries for certain categories and to the Forces of Order, but it has even reworded it by extending the audience of the beneficiaries, except then indignantly, to blame Parliament, to demand that the House be changed. [[Applause]] with an amendment of its own, and then passed it to the Senate for the third reading. Really a masterpiece. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u78	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, it is a great honour for me to make the last explanation of vote on behalf of Movimento 5 Stars and I thank my Group President for giving me this opportunity. Why are we at the third reading today? The third reading - I say it to the citizens outside - is a rarity in the Italian Parliament, but we, like Movimento 5 Stars, started our action fifteen to twenty years ago for the ecological transition (remember Grillo under a Twingo to breathe hydrogen; we are still with diesel and gasoline), for honesty and above all anti-caste, for some anti-caste measures. Imagine, citizens, that we are in the third reading in the Senate to cancel a pro chaste rule, which allowed the roof to be removed from the salaries of some executives. This is a source of pride for us. We are also here because our obstinacy - I say this also because there are the boys of Confindustria - has allowed us to give great breath to Italy with a norm, the superbonus, license plate MoVimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] The unblocking of the sale of the credits is a great result. Remember, what the mainstream - which makes a little reference to all of you, major parties, because unfortunately there is no freedom of information in Italy - has accused us of delaying. Think: today, September 20, we are delaying the conversion of the decree because of a ceiling to the salaries of 240,000 euros. We wanted only, as we have managed to do, to restore the transfer of appropriations to a measure which, I remember, in thirty years of enlightened Members of Parliament, no one had ever invented; a rule which is simple [[Applause),]] creates jobs, goes towards ecological transition, helps families pay less bills. However, we are called incompetent. I know, it's easy to say. I have news of citizens outside, because the press does not do so: this legislature is the one with the highest level of education ever obtained by the Italian Parliament. I let you guess which political group has the highest level of education in this House. [[Applause]] Then I want to debunk another myth because it was an election campaign against the poorest from those who take 500 euros a day against those who take 300 euros a month. It is mandatory to use citizenship income. It is money that is put back into the circulation of the economy. Let us remember that because the press forgets to say these things. [[Applause]] I want to remember an episode. In the last parliamentary term, my friend, Senator Santangelo, stood up to ask for the electronic vote for every single amendment, because in this House, where on average two thirds of the Members of Parliament are present, we voted for a show of hands. This meant that no one was absent. We paid a hundred senators and 200 MPs as if they were present. Do you know how much citizenship income this was daily? It's money that parliamentarians of the Republic stole from the Italian State. [[Applause]] These are the things the press has to say. Where is he? I use these last few minutes to greet all officials. Fortunately, I have held in this House positions of opposition, of majority and also of government with this Minister D'Inc. The institutions are made (and also the parliamentarians of all political forces, we would miss) also decent and well prepared people. We have always had a positive response from the Legislative Offices and all the officials of both the Ministries and Parliament, and I thank them for that. Italian citizens can be proud of these figures who help all of us politicians, who are transitory, to carry on our nation. [[Applause]] What can we wish for those who will follow us? I am a member of those parliamentarians of a political force that has respected all the principles that we could respect on our own: the refunds and the two mandates. What we could respect on our own, we honored. We have achieved another record, as we have respected 80% of the programme presented in 2018, despite the compromises we had to make with others. [[Applause]] I invite journalists to see what is written in today's programs and then evaluate the political forces tomorrow. I hope to those who will follow us to use intelligence not to maintain the status quo of politics, but also to help the last of our fellow countrymen. Congratulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u80	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u81	NUGNES (Misto-Man.A Pap PRc-Se). Mr President, thanks to the claque. The privatizations deemed inevitable by the speech of Dragons of 1992 have resoundingly failed, bringing us exactly to the point where we are now, namely in front of a climate, social and economic abyss of which we still do not have clarity. They proceeded for thirty years with an inevitable picking, as Draghi said, and continues and continues with the last tail of the decree that the Government has liquidated in the Council of Ministers and that the next Parliament will have to dismiss half and that, after the measure on competition, still limits the prerogatives of the public. Faced with the evidence, like on the Titanic or in the most recent movie "Don't look up" we continue towards disaster. I am referring to the disaster of having demolished the collective public heritage and eliminated the power of public control of the State. We learned nothing from this. We believed, from this other point of view, that capitalism would find its end in its own mistakes and we were wrong, because this bulimic capitalism has shown that it knows how to feed on the same disasters it does (that is, eat the disaster that it is putting on the field). Unfortunately, because of the choices made by the government of the best together with the European Union, we will have a very difficult winter, with gas scarcity of up to 10 billion cubic metres. They will close businesses and there will be mass redundancies; we will have a climate problem. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u82	Colleagues, I am keeping time, but this is not acceptable, especially at the last sitting. The intervention is three minutes, also because we insist on the dignity of the speeches in Parliament, so let us try to be consequent and finish the work neatly. Senator, I invite you to conclude your speech because time is really over.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u83	NUGNES (Misto-Man.A Pap PRc-Se). Well, although we are going to a real catastrophe and I am sure that we will hit the bottom of the barrel with the next Parliament, the end of all this, the death of this predatory capitalist model, which knocks down the public and demolishes the Constitution, will end sooner than you... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u84	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u87	Colleagues, Senator Verducci's speech concerns the recent flood in the Marches, so I would ask those who do not have imminent departures to stay and those who want to leave the Chamber to do so in silence, please. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Colleagues, for those who were distracted, I repeat that Senator Verducci is intervening on the very serious events that took place in the Marches, so I invite you to silence and allow the intervention to take place as the topic deserves. Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are days of unspeakable mourning for all of us Marches and for all of Italy. The flood of the night of September 15 is a terrible event that strikes us in the living flesh of the dearest affections that hold together a community. It is a tragedy that reopens wounds never healed, like those of the earthquake and like those of the flood of 2014. There is a deep pain for people who are no longer there, torn from the mud to their homes, to their families; we have known their names, their faces, their stories and here I would like to quote one by one their names: Andrea, Giuseppe, Diego, Fernando, Mohamed, Erina, Maria Luisa, Gino, Augusto, Noemi, Michele. [[Applause.]] I thank my colleagues for standing up and joining me and our grief and mine and our mourning. With them, President, colleagues, also Brunella, missing from that night, and little Mattia of eight years, who in these days we have seen in smiling photos with parents; smiling, before it happened what no one could think until a few hours before, Mattia, to whom Mother has tried in every way to be a shield; for days the father, the grandparents, the firefighters and many volunteers are looking in every way. Madam President, there is great solidarity. Volunteers from all over the Marches and from all over Italy, many young people, twenty years old, who have left what they were doing to go where it is necessary to stay, to help those who have lost everything, to contribute to a rebirth, that today seems very difficult, but that there will be. Those young people have combined their commitment and courage with the commitment, courage, determination and professionalism of firemen, civil protection workers, law enforcement agencies, doctors, all health personnel, mayors, who have been working uninterruptedly since that night to save people, to protect the weakest, the most fragile, those who have been most affected. There are a lot of people displaced. Some places in these hours are still difficult to reach. Drinking water is scarce in some towns. The economic damage is gigantic. Countries and cities, whose names are known everywhere for their beauty and generosity, are still covered by slime. Houses, companies, activities, crafts, life projects built in decades of work, generation after generation, after generation, were swallowed up by the night of the flood. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Marches will rise again. [[Applause]] , will rise as always happened in the darkest hours. Today we have a duty to fight those who persist in being indifferent and complicit in the effects of pollution and climate change, the lack of maintenance, carelessness, lack of structural interventions, building speculation, land exploitation and a fierce and unjust economic model that condemns the planet and threatens the future of the new generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u90	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Verducci for this important moment of sharing and, of course, as the Lega Group, we also associate ourselves with the thinking for the Marches. However - it is not polemic, but an appeal to those who will sit in these benches after us - these words resonated in this House at every tragedy and never followed an act. It is serious that Italy, which, between earthquakes and floods, knows tragedies - I don't say every day, but often - has not had a national law for emergency management and that every time we have to start again, applauding civil protection and volunteers. In the words of my colleague Senator Verducci, probably, someone a little older than me will have also seen the angels of the mud of Florence in 1966. The problem is that not having a law for emergency management in 1966 was perhaps also plausible, but not having it today is still a fault that I believe the entire national political-institutional system carries on its shoulders. I hope that the next Parliament will succeed in doing what we have not done, because it is something that Italy needs, regardless of colors and belongings, and the country system.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u93	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, in my last speech last Tuesday I feared what happened in the Marches: it was an announced tragedy, which caused eleven deaths, two missing people and a devastated territory. I fully share the pain of the affected communities. In the Marches there has been an extreme weather event, which however can happen anywhere in Italy, and a flood in a geologically fragile territory, structurally vulnerable and helpless. Climatologists have well told us that there is a planetary climate emergency and that in Italy this year the combination of heat and dry has been created, the most extreme ever seen since the beginning of the nineteenth century, with the warmest seas of 5 or 6 degrees and so much energy available, to trigger clouds and autumn floods. This triggered a self-generating V-shaped thunderstorm, with rains of up to 418 millimeters in seven hours, resulting in exodus in points already hit in the past. I remember well the flood of the Misa in Senigallia of 3 May 2014, with three deaths and 180 million euros of damage, after which very little has been done, with a work of defense of the banks unfinished for forty years. Even then there was a dead man in the garage, like Dad and son now. Probably, if IT Alert had worked, Joseph and Andrew would have received a message of danger on their cell phone and would not have come down, saving their lives, rather than the car. The same message may have led Silvia to desist from getting into the car with Mattia, the eight-year-old boy who disappeared with fear in her eyes. IT Alert, the Civil Protection app, that tell us already ready and experienced, with lots of commercials, does not warn us, leaving us in our inability to discern and behavior. Shouldn't he have been in operation on June 21st? In conclusion, if we do not want the ever more frequent and intense weather events to turn into catastrophes, the road is forced: alert and prevention. The focus of prevention and hydrogeological risk is knowledge and the cornerstone of knowledge is geological mapping. Ending IT Alert and geological mapping is the right path, which can save life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u96	DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr President, I wish to begin by expressing our solidarity with the citizens of the Marches and the families affected. I add nothing to the touching words used by Senator Verducci and come to the sense of my speech. Let me say that this is a natural disaster, but here too, the obvious has been a great deal. I see, in those who want to commemorate today, a tendency to forget. I mean clear and strong - and it is one of the greatest regrets for this end of the legislature - that the work that had to be done was aimed at prevention and, as I asked from the first weeks of the legislature, in the famous Special Commission, a new mapping of hydrogeological and seismic risk was needed, to see how much money was needed, and a ten-year plan - wanting, even twenty-year - to distribute resources and intervene immediately. On that occasion I found out how hard-hearted politics - beyond what it states as a good intention - is. I threatened not to vote for an unnecessary measure, in that special Commission, which concerned the RAI canon, against which a large intervention was made on the earthquake emergency, because I said that that was the work that had to be done, if we wanted to work, also because there was to be put in seismic safety 80% of the country's public heritage, starting with schools. They told me that there was no money and that the program was too ambitious. Here, nothing has been done on this front and I hope that the regret of the undersigned at this moment can be a wish - to the parliamentarians who will sit in the Senate in a few weeks' time - to intervene immediately to equip the country with this instrument. Today is the rain, but I want to remind everyone that the earthquake is even more merciless and does not warn anyone. This is the legacy, the wish, and I hope that the next Parliament, united, will be able to address this issue in order to find the resources necessary to secure the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u99	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group is close to the people of the Marche region, affected by this serious event. We express gratitude to all those who have activated themselves: volunteers, Forces of order, the Regional Council, President Aquaroli, who has always been in the operating room to give his contribution in this difficult and unpredictable moment in its specificity, certainly. We offer our condolences to the families of those who have died and we propose to be actively and effectively alongside all the people, areas and municipalities that have been damaged. A policy on hydrogeological failure must be created; a policy on the management of water resources and all watercourses. Of course, such a concentrated precipitation in such a short time is in any case extremely difficult to manage; all that can be done to mitigate the effects of these events must be done and I believe that this is a commitment that we take on and we are sure to see that it is common on this front in any case and from every position of government, at national and local level. On this, as always, we will be determined and consistent.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u100	Before continuing, on behalf of the House, the Presidency joins the mourning of the families of the victims of the Marche. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]] I believe that this moment of silence and pain is also a very serious and profound opportunity for reflection on what has happened and what needs to be done so that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u103	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, the Constitutional Group, the Environment, Employment, also expresses solidarity with the citizens of the Marche for this immense, yet another tragedy. With this last speech, I would like to leave this House and point out yet another scandal of an infinite series that characterized the "Government of the Best" presided over by Draghi in these eighteen months of Government, characterized by 55 votes of confidence, confirming the expropriation of the functions and prerogatives that the Constitution assigns to the Chambers, with the parliamentarians of the Commissions snatched of their functions by an Executive who has become the third Chamber. I am talking about the Alitalia-ITA scandal, the historic flagship company of the public shareholder IRI to the extraordinary ministerial administration until 2009, when the rope of the "courageous captains" managed to sink it permanently; and then to reach 2020, when it was transformed into the new ITA Airways company, with thousands of workers fired and thrown in the middle of a road. We are the home of tourism and we are deprived of a flagship company. An article published today on "Il Fatto Quotidiano" headlines: "ITA: the MEF will collect 350 million from its members but will pay 1.35 billion. It is the usual masterpiece of Professor Javazzi and his good palace. Certares proposes to buy 51 percent of ITA, leaving 49 percent to the MEF, 950 million. Those who look deeper into this operation, instead of doing so superficially, might think that the MEF, therefore the State, would collect almost 1 billion. Digging into contractual clauses, as for damaged derivatives that have poisoned public accounts, favoring business banks and golden careers, you will notice that between recapitalisation and capital increases the MEF will collect 350 million, but will be called to pay out 1.35 billion, between money paid and those of the races. Madam President, I would like to end by thanking you, the offices, officials and all the colleagues and colleagues with whom we have shared four and a half years of parliamentary life, and by expressing a special greeting to Alitalia's workers (as to all the other workers, but especially to them), treated by the Government as damaged goods.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u106	Drago (FdI). Mr President, my speech will be more a speech on life, as everyone will be aware of the communication of Minister Bianchi a few hours ago, about the fact that in 2031 there is a loss - which he defined as a deadly problem - of 1.4 million pupils in the Italian school. I take inspiration from this to say simply that my parliamentary activity - it was my first mandate, which ends here - was born precisely following the commitment with the forum of family associations in Catania and province, of which I was president (and I greet), and with other associations in the family. The school has always been the primary focus, as far as I am concerned, but also the demographic theme. Let us be careful: it is often simply associated with the birthday - sometimes improperly used - with the problem of youth emigration. On this subject in this legislature I have filed a series of acts, including a motion and a draft law delegation on which comments have been made, emphasizing its complexity with regard to the solution of the problem. I believe that the demographic problem is systemic and that it cannot be solved with small amendments or small interventions. What do I mean by that? In saying goodbye, I make this gift of this issue to the Assembly and to the Members who will be re-elected, so that it can serve as a basis for work, as well as the reform of the ISEE, already deposited as the only act present in the Senate (if perhaps not another later), which does not want to be clearly exhaustive, but which is certainly a starting point. I would like to take this opportunity to express also a wish for a term, that is that with the next legislature one can agree to the mobility of those teachers (we speak of a few thousand) who for fifteen to twenty years and beyond have been scattered in Italy for a clearly critical management, that I am not here to tell. As far as the earthquake is concerned, I agree that a framework law should be put in place. I would like to make another suggestion with regard to children: the bicameral committee on childhood and adolescence, which cannot legislate and which does not have the power to draw up, must, in my view, be made permanent. I think it is absolutely desirable to join the Education Commission and therefore the relevant Ministry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I must invite you to conclude, Senator Drago. Drago (FdI). I would like to end by thanking the Brothers of Italy for not having rebranded me, not only in the way, because I knew only a few hours before but because it gave me the opportunity to reflect on what politics and partyism are. I would not want the younger generations to think of it as a bit like everyone else, that politics is dirty, because it is the noblest art and I still think it is. Partyism, on the other hand, is a serious problem, because if the party, instead of being the medium, becomes the end (as the reform of the number of parliamentarians and the current electoral law prove), then... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u107	I must ask you to conclude, Senator Drago.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u108	Drago (FdI). I thank all my colleagues, clearly also the Movimento 5 Stars, who nominated me. With this, I conclude by saying that I always hold firm the conviction that more than the party is important the figure, as is dictated by Article 67 of the Constitution, by the political project of every senator, who connects and finds roots in the party.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u109	I would say that we can consider the work of this sitting not only completed, but the work of this House. Of course, all good intentions about Parliament and what it has to do about it remain in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-465.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
