ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 9 March. In today's session, until its conclusion, the decree-law on the contrast to the Covid emergency in workplaces and schools will be discussed. Since the Government has announced the position of the question of confidence on the measure, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the Conference of the Leaders has organised the relevant debate, establishing that it will go directly to the explanations of vote, to which it will be called. Today's agenda is also complemented by the bill on organic farming, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies, on which no amendments have been tabled. Next week will be mainly dedicated to the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the decree-law support. The Assembly will meet again on Wednesday 9 March for the examination of the draft law delegation in the matter of public contracts and the report on the application for authorization on the use of interceptions against Senator Siri.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until March 9: [[Wednesday, March 2, h. 11-20 - Drawing of law n. 2542 - Decree-Law n. 1, Contrast of emergency COVID in workplaces and schools (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on March 8) - Drawing of law n. 988-B - Agriculture by biological method (approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies)]] [[Wednesday, March 9 h. 9.30-20 - Draft law n. 2330 - Delegation in the matter of public contracts - Doc. IV, n. 10 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorization to use wiretapping of conversations and telephone communications against Senator Siri]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2330 (Delegation on public contracts) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2542 (Decree-Law No 1, Covid emergency counter in workplaces and schools) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 42' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 30' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2542, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the President of the Commission, Senator Parente, to report back on the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u7	Mr President, the Commissions meeting 1a and 12a devoted the afternoon sitting of yesterday and the afternoon sitting of this morning to the examination of draft law No 2542. The stages of the presentation, general discussion, replies and discussion of agendas have been carried out; the discussion of the amendments - seventy-two amendments - has been initiated, but it has not been concluded in good time, given the numerous requests for intervention for illustration and explanations of vote. Consequently, it was not possible to end the procedure in the Commission by giving the term of office to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to what Senator Parente has said, the draft law n. 2542, since the examination has not been completed in the Commissions, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u9	Mr President, not even twenty-four hours ago we were surrounded by a debate in which Europe was central, as far as political importance was concerned, in a delicate scenario such as that of the conflict in Ukraine. Europe was at the heart of every intervention; it was recalled, invoked and even pushed to give itself greater political consistency. You are well aware of my positions vis-à-vis Europe and the European Union. Having set up a party called Italexit, I do not have a great deal of consideration for the European project or unionist, but I do again and again stand in the footsteps of your words, also to build a piece of the question for a preliminary ruling. If it is true that, once again, this Parliament is confronted with the abuse of the decree of urgency; and if, once again, this Parliament is confronted with the many issues of trust and the many votes of confidence, it is also important to recall the breakdown between Italian and European legislation and, therefore, with that Europe of which you continue in a certain sense to invoke respect and construction. Through the urgent decree, virtually all the regulatory scaffolding of the Covid emergency was built, but at some point also some other subjects, the European Union, were trying to give a regulatory response that would make the interventions of the Member States of the European Union homogeneous. These include the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union No 953 of 2021. Just going into the folds of this Regulation, and in particular Article 3, which, in paragraphs 1 and 7, prohibits discrimination with regard to the possession of one of the three types of green certifications (healing, vaccine, rapid or molecular buffer), considering from a scientific point of view the green certificate deriving from the antigenic buffer to those proving vaccination or healing, we must understand that one thing excludes the other: the super green pass or strengthened green pass removes one of the three elements with which so far we have also built a piece of our emerging daily life. Hence the question of the preliminary ruling, which is a political issue which we are putting - I repeat - but which is also becoming of a social nature. In fact, it seems difficult to imagine the future days and the future period still standing in the dynamics of a continuous exhibition, a continuous exhibition, a QR code, a code, a green pass. It's almost like we've replaced our names and identity cards with a magic square. I think that this is not in line with the thickener of the Constitution, which is far more than the sum of the articles, it is something that puts the individual at the center. In the light of the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure, I believe that the decree that we are going to discuss is untiring, both in antithesis and penalising. From here, I would like to ask Members to consider what we want to choose at this point. Do we want to strike the path of the Italian, national solution to get out of the emergency, as I think it is in the spirit of this House? I repeat that one who does not believe in the European Union, but who has to deal with existing regulations and regulations, says so. Therefore, it is up to you to say whether or not the European Union's Rules of Procedure makes sense; all the more so if this indication comes within the Rules of Procedure, which, between the rules and regulations of the European Union, is the strongest and the most binding in all its parts. So why do we continue to go on a path that not only no longer impacts on today's life, because we are absolutely no longer in the emergency of the past, but that, from a regulatory point of view, goes down with what the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union indicate? It is a strengthened green pass that risks being weakened precisely in the light of this conflict. I also turn to another order of considerations, perhaps a little more political, but which is once again within the Constitution, which in no way provides for discrimination between individuals. It is nice that the Italian squares have been animated - before and not only - of demonstrations against the green pass, because dissent is allowed and we will allow it. I say, however, that it is also beautiful that the Italian squares are filling themselves with the cry of: no war, yes peace. All this confluence and all this very large participation of people are welcome. I'm sure there will be people in those squares who might not have participated in protests against the green pass. And it might happen that Saturdays and Sundays go to the streets together to say no to the war, and then, on Mondays, someone will be discriminated against, because not in possession of the strengthened green pass, and therefore will be excluded from work, from its constitutional right. Of course, I hope that the war scenario will come to an end as soon as possible. But if that were not the case, as the right of citizens to say no to war is sacrosanct, it is also the fact of denouncing the paradoxical situation for which I find myself saying no to war and yes to peace, to be together in the square with many other people, and maybe on Monday to not be able to go to work, because I have been penalized. And that penalty is excluded from the Rules of Procedure of the European Union. I also find it paradoxical - and even more so in the context of an emergency situation - that a worker without a reinforced super green pass cannot go to work, because he falls within the obligation of vaccination by professional category, even if he is cured, so in theory he is no longer exposed and is no longer a danger either for himself or for others. Why then would a healed person, who would be entitled to the super green pass or the strengthened green pass in the world of school, law enforcement, health care, and therefore in the three professional categories that have been marked and marked by the vaccination obligation, not be entitled to return to the workplace? I would ask you at least to say yes or no to a preliminary ruling which would allow you to express your views. I know that there are different political sensibilities in this House, and someone would want to get out of the way and say enough about this difficult emergency. So, since we are not a QR code and we are all well aware of the discrimination that can arise and can be fed, I invite you to take this very aspect into consideration. Do we want and do you want to be fully Europeanist or do you in any way just want to defend the government's activities? That is the point of the question that puts the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the European Council right at the centre: that is the ball with which we must play.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u10	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u13	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the question raised by Senator Paragon and other senators is overcome by events. To come today and tell Parliament that it must not convert a decree-law, which will expire in six days' time, is an unnecessary attempt at obstruction and filibustering. We have all noticed that there have been some inconsistencies in the discipline of the last two years of pandemic emergency. The question referred to the four decrees-laws of January 2022: Senator Paragone, if it matters well, will see that the decree-laws in the matter of containment of the Covid and the economic crisis related to it have been exactly 42, from the beginning of the crisis to the present. All the measures have been taken in the context of European law and the Italian Constitution, guaranteed by the authoritative signature of the guarantor of the Constitution, President Mattarella. There has been a regulatory anxiety that we hope never to see again, but that we absolutely justify, as it is due to the evolution of unpredictable and uncontrollable events. A great doctor and scientist, Giuseppe Remuzzi - is from Bergamo, where the virus has claimed thousands of victims in 2020 - a man of science who runs one of the most prestigious research institutes, the "Mario Negri" said that, in the face of the first pandemic wave, he was afraid that we could all die. Science at the beginning of the pandemic did not know who the enemy was or how to deal with it, so its prudence and the scientific committees that advise the Minister of Health called for the need to adapt the measures in itinerantly. The same caution was taken in adopting legislative acts in favour of Italians. But if there weren't all the measures taken, we wouldn't be nearly 90% vaccinated today and we wouldn't have saved thousands and thousands of lives. I remember that the first year of the pandemic, the one who saw us almost without defense, made 130,000 deaths. The number of deaths then fell due to measures taken in the state of emergency. Could the technical-scientific management of the pandemic and that of the related measures be done with greater rationality? Maybe so, but caution has slowed down the different variants of the virus and saved thousands of lives, especially the weakest, leading us now to be more aware of who is the enemy, how it changes and how we can deal with it. What is important today is that, at the moment we are dealing with the subject and approving the measure at our examination, we have entered a new state of the emergency Covid-19. We are out of the emergency: yes, we are in the final phase and, even if a new variant were to start again, we now have enough information to deal with it without closing everything again and I would say without imposing new health restrictions that are not of common sense. The duration of the green pass has changed several times, it is so; that of the super green pass is now finally unlimited. Today we have some certainty: the vaccinees - almost 90 percent of the adult population - have certainly helped to slow down, but not to stop the circulation of the virus. Surely we will be able to deal with new epidemics or pandemics with the most appropriate tools: in addition to vaccines and any calls, we have new, increasingly specific ones; we have other cures and protocols to follow, which have proved effective. We reaffirm our trust in vaccinations, but today we are comforted by the fact that we also have other health trails to be followed by those who cannot or do not want to vaccinate. We must therefore no longer distinguish between good and bad, because in doing so we have given voice to the bad teachers, among them the no vax and the no masks, but the wish is to get out of uncertainty and the decree-law that we are about to convert goes precisely in this direction. We owe it mainly to the many economic activities - especially those related to tourism, catering and trade - which have suffered heavy losses. We also owe it to the other productive sectors which have suffered an extraordinary backlash. We owe it to the workers, who must be able to return to work in peace. We hope that our children can return to attend the school always in presence. Parents of disabled children - as required by the decree-law - in the private sector will benefit from smart working. I therefore believe that gradualness and common sense must be the new watchwords that mark the end of the two-year emergency period. With caution, caution and responsibility, but without alarmism, we must and can fight the virus and its variants, but returning gradually and convincedly to normality, however marked by tensions and conflicts, which must lead us all to work to propose ourselves as messengers of peace. In view of the above, the Forza Italia Group calls for a vote against the question referred by Senator Paragone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u16	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, I would like to address the question referred to us about the decree-law, the measures of which have already explained their effects, in order to make a few comments on the measures which have been adopted so far. I refer in particular to the effectiveness of the vaccination campaign and how it was carried out. As has already been said and as is well known, if today we have a reduction in infection and a decrease in the RT index, as well as in hospitalizations and deaths, we owe it both to the diligent behaviour of most Italians and to the effectiveness of the vaccination campaign. That is, we owe it to vaccines, which have increased our immune resistance and enabled us to effectively combat the virus and its penetration and spread in our bodies and in society. Personally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a advocate of obligations. In the more than forty years of professional experience and life as a doctor, although conducted by a hospital doctor, I have devoted a lot of time to prevention, addressing the deficiencies of territorial assistance that are well known and that we will try to heal with the implementation of the provisions of the PNRR. We have devoted ourselves so much to prevention in hospitals and, like myself, many colleagues have realized how important it is for individuals to join spontaneously, which can be achieved as a result of dialogue and proper information. People must be convinced of the effectiveness of medical practices, which unfortunately has not always happened, because of a communication that has often paid more attention to the audience than to the actual work of information. It is undeniable, however, that the vaccination obligations of the 1950s and 1960s - and even before and after - have allowed the eradication of diseases such as polio and to effectively combat others, such as tuberculosis, diphtheria and cough. What gives me the impression is that today's targets, known to all, would hardly have been achieved if certain measures had not been introduced. What makes me think a lot is also to see how people believe in the effectiveness and validity of medical care and surgical therapies and entrust themselves to us doctors, knowing that we will solve the great majority of their cases, because of course we practice a medicine based on evidence, which comes from the professional experiences of all and puts us in a position to achieve the best results. But, when it comes to vaccines, meeting resistance in large sections of the population makes me think. I refer to the previous speech: perhaps we need to review the ways of information and exchange and we need to talk to people, just to avoid the formation of comrades like pro vax, no vax or pro science, against science. This certainly isn't good for society. Now we should adapt our habits to a new normal, because the pandemic is not defeated at all. We need to think about vaccinating the whole human species and reviewing some of our habits. I would like to make one point in this regard, and I would also like to address the political decision-makers: recent studies, to which sections of our National Research Council (CNR) have also contributed, have shown the effectiveness of indoor ventilation in order to greatly reduce the potential for contagion. I therefore hope that the political decision-maker will introduce measures to facilitate and increase ventilation in public and private buildings. Mr President, I conclude by saying that all measures are subject to review in order to improve their effectiveness. Medical science does so periodically, several times throughout the year: there are international societies responsible for this, which review the guidelines that inspire our medical behaviors and protocols. We must always adapt the measures to the new circumstances, and there is no reason to believe that, even in the near future, the measures adopted so far cannot be amended, adapting them to the new circumstances. I shall, of course, end by saying that our Group voted against the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u19	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I too, from the outset, express my opposition to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. The decree-law in question was issued when the pandemic situation was very different from the current one: the omicron variant, in fact, had arrived late in our country and had had negative effects at that time; it was therefore necessary to extend the vaccination obligation to the over fifty, after that for the staff of the universities and institutions of high artistic training, of all services to the person, of the public offices and of the postal services, bank and financial. This has allowed us to contain contagions and admissions, and in fact the current data give us reason in this regard. In addition, if we think about the future today, I would remind you that the measure already provides for some training of restrictions, such as the possibility of feeding food to cinemas. We are, therefore, moving towards a relaxation and we are also thinking - as we said in the Commission, and as Prime Minister Draghi said, saying that we are going towards the end of the emergency - that we can really identify in the next measures a timetable for a gradual and progressive easing of all restrictions, on the basis of the epidemiological trend. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we can look to the future with greater serenity today, we certainly owe it to the massive vaccination campaign and here I still thank the Italian people who, for more than 90% wanted to vaccinate and, therefore, did vaccinations on their own initiative. It is thanks to them that we can have these opportunities, but we have had to recommend and also have the obligations to ensure that the whole context and our communities are secured. Mr President, I therefore believe that opposing this decree-law, now that we are really at the end of this emergency - as I hope - cannot be accepted. On the other hand, I hope that we can move on to the vote on the measure, which contains important rules, such as those which provide substantial aid against school distress through the provision of funds. We therefore vote against the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u22	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of this question, because it is a fair way of preventing the further continuation of the effects of this decree-law, which - as you all know - contains obligations for the over 50 and extends the discrimination of the green pass and the super green pass. Waiting still doesn't make sense: it's measures and measures that were useless and harmful, so the sooner we take them off, the better. We are doing damage to the country: there are citizens who no longer have the right to work and have no means of livelihood, and we must immediately stop this. I would therefore ask you to consider: if you vote in favour of this question for a preliminary ruling, all prohibitions, obligations and bureaucracy that are now useless will be lost. On the other hand, if you vote against, you will make yourself complicit in further suffering and you will have to respond to the thousands of people who are at home now without work, or forced to comply with vaccination obligations that they do not want and that are no longer relevant at this time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u23	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Paragone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u24	We are preparing to convert into law a decree-law of the Government, whose provisions appear already out of context and in many ways not perfectly aligned with the most current scientific and health evidence. The deaths from Covid constitute a heartbreaking and tearing reality and, beyond some reasonable doubt about the correctness and accuracy of its estimate, still remain many and too many; equally, the deaths and adverse events from vaccine are probably underestimated, due to difficulties of various types in denouncing and proving the possible correlation between cause and effect. I don't think there can be one more worthy death than another; I don't think there can be more noble fears than others. There are no absolute truths and others to denigrate or mock regardless; there are thoughts, reflections and words of people more or less sensitive, prepared and attentive and more or less able to argue an objectively critical thought. Science and vaccines have always rendered a valuable service to the community and to public health, but the contradictions of some measures put in place to deal with the emergency linked to the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which in turn favored the triggering of an induced effect, have not facilitated a truly persuasive dialogue and confrontation. On the contrary, they have fostered antagonisms, oppositions and ideological disputes, in which furrow they take hold and strengthen the culture of suspicion, bad faith and ignorance. The pandemic has produced sad and painful events in not only health but also economic terms, and has taken everyone off guard. Today, however, a greater awareness of events requires us not to be unarmed and uncritically passive spectators compared to a reality that must be kept separate from media spectacularization. By drawing lessons from the experience lived and paying tribute to the sacrifice of all those who have been active in this difficult common path, politics has the duty to be constantly critical and responsible, accepting every voice, even the most seemingly senseless one, with the strength of those who, in a balanced and never biased way, are called to make choices with a confident, but not trustworthy, attitude, because science itself has given us proof that nothing can ever be observed in an absolute way. I would like to ask this House if it is not time to change the strategic approach to a favourable epidemiological framework, concentrating every effort on that part of health care, first of all territorial medicine (true embankment of every infectious virus epidemic), which requires structural and no longer emergent interventions, strengthening safety protocols in overcrowded places and working environments and, last but not least, encouraging agile work. The green certificate - or green pass that you say you want - whose assessed function, concretely and without hypocrisy of any kind, has been and is basically to induce vaccination the most riottose fringes, with some embarrassment on the front of the constitutional garrisons, tends to be now perceived as an unjustified and pervicacious attempt to continue to use strong ways. However, in a global context in which the real and contingent emergency is represented by an uncontrolled increase in the cost of living and by an economic and productive fabric still too fragile, the excess of prudence can be mistaken for unjustified aggression, generating further and dangerous tensions. I understand that, finally, the time has come to overcome the phase of the restrictions, with speed and without misunderstanding, with confidence, looking at the choices made also by other countries and not forgetting that work, education and sociality in general are rights that must be protected and guaranteed as well as health. We must avoid giving our side, with our political choices, to attitudes that are also indirectly or unconsciously discriminatory, aggravated or even caused by an approach that is not always serenely objective, because it is contaminated by the need to turn even the scientific debate into a spectacle. We cannot afford to penalise economic recovery by adopting measures which have been necessary, but which must be an extreme remedy. The country and the economic entrapment must be supported, but above all they need to run on their own legs, without constraints that are not really justified. It is therefore appropriate to analyse the actual data, managed in a correct, transparent and independent manner, without pressure or interference on science and politics in order to benefit either faction or, worse, to make undue profit. Citizens must be encouraged to dialogue and confrontation, not subject to taxation, and politics must be able to do so, assuming its own responsibilities, never giving others the decisions that are theirs. In compliance with the canons of adequacy and reasonableness, it is therefore necessary to restore with courage, determination, strength and confidence the economic, social and productive fabric towards normality. Only in this way will it be possible to render good service to the community, peaceable souls and overcome all insecurity and fear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u25	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u26	Mr President, we are responsible for ensuring a minimum of decency for the debate that follows these measures, which come from the government in a difficult way to dedicate. For the umpteenth time, we come to examine in this House a very important measure, which affects the daily life of Italians in a strict way and which affects not only their attitudes, but also their daily life and even their eating. And then we'll clarify why I'm saying this. We will get there again without the rapporteur and we will see what will happen with regard to the possibility of discussing the amendments in this House. This morning in the Commission, of course, because of the overlapping of timetables and timetables, it was not possible to deal with the amendments, nor did we end the examination of Article 1. All this, in short, is really becoming a reckless practice and I must say that fortunately there is the Brothers of Italy Group that, as this morning and as on other occasions - I would like to say as always, since the Government has installed itself - guarantees Parliament at least a minimum of decorum. We are also doing so under these conditions, knowing that we are speaking for the benefit of the shorthand report. We do so regardless of any other consideration, because obviously we have clear what our role and responsibility are and we respond, as always, to the Italians. There are, as I said, many passages and a thousand inconsistencies in this provision. Many passages, by the way, are anachronistic. In fact, we are converting and confirming outdated deadlines: in this measure there are 28 February deadlines that we are converting today, on 2 March, and we are doing so, obviously, for the benefit of what has happened. In a normal condition, a normal government should instead have changed these measures and made them compatible with the conversion of the Assembly, which has always been done and which clearly no longer finds room in the attitudes and postures - to use a term that I heard yesterday - of this government posing as ras. There are four points I intend to deal with in particular, because it would take an hour to deal with everything contained in the measure. Among these four, the most important - in my opinion - is the recognition of the food part of the salary. We have also talked about this in the Commission, because at least we have been able to exchange ideas on this. We are failing to recognize the unbearable food component of the salary of those who are suspended from work because they have not been vaccinated, while - to give an example - this food part of the salary is recognized to the mobsters, the murderers or all those who - civil servants - are suspended from the service waiting for the process that sees them accused for serious crimes, even hateful. But those who are suspended from work and salary because they have not been vaccinated are not given the feeding portion of the salary. That's the way it is, President. It's not recognized. [[Applause]] There are people who don't get to be able to guarantee their family food spending. I think I see the disbelief in the eyes of my fellow Members who listen - few in fact - but I assure you that this happens: there are also amendments from the political side of the President who have tried to make it clear to the Government that this cannot be continued. There is another subject, which is also paradoxical: we are going as far as possible - as we said yesterday and repeated it - to welcome the refugees of this wretched war within Europe and at the gates of national borders. Well, many of these subjects are vaccinated with Sputnik: did you make this trivial consideration? Do you realize that this is a vaccine that has the same technology and the same results of effect and validity as the vaccines that we have inoculated in Italy, such as Pfizer and Moderna, i.e. mRNA vaccines? And yet, we don't recognize who received the Sputnik vaccine as covering the green pass. So, what are we gonna do with these people? Do we revenge them again or leave them without green passes, with everything that's involved? What will happen to these people who come from that territory of war and oppression? I have another subject for the benefit of the House, and there are amendments dealing with these matters. We launched the Novavax vaccine, a protein vaccine, presented as the green vaccine, the vaccine of all those who had not vaccinated so far because they did not trust or rely on what we had told them about the validity of vaccines until now used. Well, the Novavax vaccine is a failure, in the sense that all regions have made it available, but there is no access to this vaccine; and it is now widely registered. It is therefore true, ladies and gentlemen, that what has to be done from the outset, we are still not doing so today; we still think that we want to force people to vaccinate rather than convince them. And how is it possible to convince people to vaccinate, Mr Sileri? It is possible through doctors of general medicine. Recently, we held a hearing in the Commission with the trade union representatives of family doctors, who said that no region has made available to doctors the records of their caregivers who are not covered by the vaccine; there was no feedback, there was no collaboration, there was no involvement of the main figure to which the citizen has to rely. To whom should the citizen be entrusted? The Gruber and the 8 and a half? To whom should the citizen be entrusted but to his family doctor? Well, family doctors have always been, constantly, also in this circumstance related to the Novax vaccine, excluded from any operation of conviction and involvement of citizens still not vaccinated. Mr President, it has been nine minutes and twenty-five seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've got ten minutes and I'm warning you, 35 seconds away. Don't you trust the bell? Mr Zaffini (FdI). I still have 40 seconds. Finally, I would like to conclude, Mr President. I do not think there will be any particular traffic in this morning's speeches. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you another minute. Come to the conclusion. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Let's move on to the ventilation of the classrooms. Even today, after two years of pandemic and these particularly cold days in Rome, we are venting the classrooms of the schools where we send our children through the opening of the windows. If this is acceptable in a civilized and modern country, I let you consider it. We have adopted amendments concerning the possibility of adapting classrooms with forced mechanical ventilation in school environments, but these measures are not reflected in the circulars and regulations that the government must implement; it must do so today, immediately, not in three or six months' time. But all this is not there and on the other hand brought to the stage of conversion and approval of the Senate Assembly and in the two branches of Parliament measures expired on 28 February. I believe, Mr President, that this must be stopped. That's what the President of the Republic said. The poor country senator doesn't say that, but the President of the Republic said so. We have to cut it down and, if the Senate presidency does not do so, we have to see that the Government does not have such attention, who should do so? I ask myself and ask you: who should do it? Who is it that must call everyone to a sense of responsibility in accordance with their role and to exercise their prerogatives to the full, as the constitutional path requires, and no later? We are going farther, Mr President. It's time to get this over with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u28	Mr President, this decree is out of time and is out of place, totally, first of all because it is based on old data, dating back to 5 November and 12 December 2021. The decree, by its nature, has a provisional duration and, therefore, there is absolutely no need to convert it into law, where the evidence of this period tells us that it is absolutely senseless to do so. It is foolish, because it is an outrage against people who have decided not to vaccinate, knowingly, or because they cannot do it for health reasons or because they do not feel protected by these products, who have not followed a regular experimental process. And they have every right to do so, because the international conventions recognize it: the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union recognizes it, the Oviedo Convention recognizes it; Regulation 2021/953 also recognizes it, which is an over-ordered act also compared to our legal system, because it is a European regulation and, therefore, directly applicable and operational in our legal system, which requires non-discrimination even if we choose not to vaccinate. These products are also imposed on people who have a more up-to-date immunisation than this vaccine can offer. In fact, it cannot be argued that those who have contracted the virus after the release of the vaccine do not have a more up-to-date immunisation. Therefore, it is absurd that this person is subjected today to vaccinations that do not protect it in any case. This is also true where the manufacturers themselves clearly deny that they know the data on the effectiveness of these products. Of these products, however, we know the risks, that is, the adverse effects, which are so many. There are about four million cases of adverse effects in Europe and almost 40,000 deaths related to or occurring near the administration of these products. With these premises we want to confirm, validate and transform into law a decree that practically confirms a vaccination obligation for people over fifty, out of any opinion of the Technical and Scientific Committee, that has not even expressed itself, because it cannot express itself, because this decree has no health foundation. In premise it says false, because no health emergency can be absolutely contained with the measures provided for in this decree. The medical emergency ended everywhere, but remains in Italy until March 31st. This is our own nonsense, because we have to work hard to assert a vaccination fundamentalism on commercial products, which have only financial value. This is what is clearly being done - as Senator Zaffini said - for Novax, an Italian product that is boycotted in every way. On the other hand, these products must be imposed absolutely with violence. The third dose has never been tested and, therefore, has not followed any experimental iter, the fourth least ever. Moreover, there are cases in Israel that tell us that these products are ultimately not effective in containing either infection or hospitalization or even deaths from Covid. Nevertheless, we proceed on the same line until 15 June, according to you and according to all those who have spoken. It is absurd: there are senators of the majority who have spoken against, they have already said that the decree-law is out of place and out of time. And yet, what are they going to do today? Will they vote for trust? How did they vote for the majority resolution yesterday, even though they were against the war? They will thus confirm a crazy line that is leading us simultaneously to a war, to a famine, because in fact we are in a hallucinating energy crisis. And we will also go into food crisis, because we probably will no longer have the grain that comes from Ukraine and, therefore, we will have to look for other supply channels with a price increase, and for a very serious economic crisis that concerns the economy of the territories, the real economy. Despite this, one continues to want to keep up a Government that is doing nothing but damage to Italy and voting for measures that are more insane than the other; they are really the work of psychopaths, criminals... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Garnet, I must call you to attention and to the care of words. Thank you. This is a formal reminder. GRANATO (Mixed). Great, we're used to it. Unfortunately, we are an entire country at the mercy of a majority that, like an automaton, only approves of measures taken by the haste to carry out an agenda, which only you know, because we are unfortunately not lucky enough to know you. This is leading the country, rather than out of trouble, to self-destruction. That's what we're talking about. What sense of responsibility are you exhibiting in the face of Italian citizens, by convulsively voting for measures that only make the situation of an entire nation worse and worse? What sense of responsibility are you exhibiting? You as a majority want to keep this government and this legislature up. But what's the point of keeping up a legislature that's legislated like this? Parliament's role has been completely cancelled. There are even colleagues who will not be able to vote today, just as they did not vote last time, because of the crazy vaccination obligation for 50-year-olds. Maybe that's why you want to keep him, to force all these colleagues to not be able to vote. Their access is in fact prevented by the performance of a card that has no constitutional value and limits their mandate through an administrative bureaucratic act that in these places is inadmissible. When we were elected, parliamentary assistants had to memorize our faces, because we did not have to perform even a document of recognition, and now you impose on all Members the performance of a card that does not attest to anything, does not attest to any health security: it attests only blind and crazy obedience to rules that make no sense, which are only the symbol of an authoritarian power that you are imposing. You have transformed our democratic parliamentary republic based on work into an authoritarian republic based on emergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u31	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask you to correct, for the benefit of the shorthand report, one of my mistakes in the presentation of my concepts: Sputnik is a viral vector vaccine and not a mRNA vaccine. I was wrong to illustrate it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this clarification. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u32	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard in the few speeches made so many different positions. We all have some critical points of contact because of the crowding with which the measures are overlapping each other so that, when they come to our attention, in some cases some of the rules they contain are already exceeded; which gives a feeling of extraneousness. I do not want to go into the merits of the punctual reading of the decree-law in order to obtain the elements that could have been so to speak better. I want to focus on two important objectives, the first of which - as we have repeated so many times in this parliamentary term - is the right to health. Never before have we known, wanted and been able to put the right to health at the heart of the general debate. We wanted to do this in a very particular dimension, which is the right to prevention. Let us not forget, in fact, that the whole great vaccination operation is nothing more than a gigantic vaccination operation; never in the history of Italy and not even the world had a prevention operation done through vaccination of this magnitude. This I believe goes to the honour of those who have programmed, wanted, supported and accepted in the singularity of their person. When we talk about prevention, we talk about two very important elements: the protection of one's health and the protection of the health of the people around us. This is the great strength of prevention: to know that I am not selfishly pursuing my own personal benefit, but I am in solidarity with the health of the people who are next to me. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, President, members of the Government, because of the importance and emphasis that has been placed in this legislature on the right to health obtained through prevention - a very high approach as a look on public health - I hope that, for the richness that gives us translational knowledge, this same attitude can be projected on many other pathologies. The concentration of the interest of the whole system in the fight against Coronavirus, in fact, has meant that we have left in the shadow, in some way marginalizing them, other types of pathologies, other forms of prevention. I think of one for everyone: screenings, from neonatal to cancer. I am referring to so many forms for which medicine has been able to take positive steps forward precisely because it has focused on the maximum possible strategies to prevent the disease coming, having closed the door in her face. The right to health through prevention is a positive achievement of this legislature and it is an achievement that the decree-law at our examination confirms clearly and unequivocally. But the measure before us takes two steps forward, recalling, alongside the right to health, two other rights. The first is the right to education: the decree-law deals with a great deal of detail of what happens in schools and how prevention should be brought into school; sometimes it does so with such minute attention, so precise, so precise, so difficult to govern, precisely because of the quantity and quality of the exceptions it takes into consideration, which - we must recognize - is the answer to a criticism that - in a shared way - we have all moved with respect to the risk that we thought we could satisfy the right of children to education only through the famous distance teaching. In order to avoid distance learning, attention to prevention within school life has multiplied, trying to identify and select, almost surgically, the cases that could create the problem and minimize the risk condition, reducing the school attendance of children instead of inevitably closing the whole school. We have done this from the youngest to the university, where many of our young people have learned that that level of self-regulation and critical awareness of the fact that the protection of their health is one of the highest social, political, citizen (the famous civic education) also begins by vaccinating and keeping in mind the warning signs when - for example - there is a positive buffer. We have also highlighted the other great right: the right to work. We did this by guaranteeing the quality of life and the health of the people who went to work. And, once again, we have done this by trying to break the circuit in which the culture of our time constantly pushes us, which is the individual right, highlighting the social duty. Therefore, in jobs we raised the level of sensitivity to the requirement of vaccination to protect fragile people. When we predicted that over fifty years all should be vaccinated, we have established a measure that is not punitive, but of awareness, which urges us to take care of our own health and health, without sacrificing that extraordinary human experience which is for all of us the possibility of working, which is not only the possibility of doing things, but also the possibility of being with people and of activating processes of intellectual creativity, collaboration and service. Work means a lot, as a great laboratory of human experience. Those who have been home in the famous months of hard lockdown know how difficult it was to achieve a job that would preserve all its dimension of human wealth, of glue of social cohesion. The decree-law under consideration, insofar as it underlines the right to health, the right to education and the right to work, establishes a sort of very important triangulation, in which our whole system of life, personal and social, private and public, is framed; our whole life is multifaceted on these three great rights. Through the right to education (often also the right to education of our children and grandchildren), we know that we are doing a valuable job of transferring skills, sensitivity and learning to dialogue with others. We are subtracting the child from that form of isolation proper to virtual reality, in which he and his screen become almost the by-product of a human experience that needs, instead, to touch and see things, that also needs to listen directly. Video-mediated knowledge, such as video-mediated work, can at certain times be a positive response; they can help solve some problems, but they cannot replace the experiences of reality that each of us needs. In conclusion, Mr President, the decree-law under consideration has, as always, many positive areas and some niches of difficulty. The main one is certainly dictated by the pursuit of the decree-law, which makes it possible to create a crowd of norms and a suffering for all. The fact that the emergency period ends on 31 March also says a lot as a response to so many of the things that have been said. President Draghi, as a sign of balance, insofar as he recalled that the period of emergency from war extends to 31 December, he also said that the emergency from Covid will end with 31 March. It is a courageous and intelligent operation, for which we are grateful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romagnoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I hardly ever speak in this House, because I am listening and I have an idea of all the things we are discussing and I often agree with or disagree with what is being said. Today, however, I have to do so, because medicine has saved my life several times. Luckily I'm vaccinated and fortunately there was a rapid medical intervention to create vaccines that helped everyone come out of a dramatic situation. I therefore felt an obligation to intervene and to tell everyone what I touched with my hand. Of course I empathize and know very well all the difficulties that people, families, children and workers have encountered; substantial difficulties that have put everyone to the test; therefore I also understand the tones. As Mrs Binetti said earlier, we also had heavy, difficult, sometimes insulting interventions. It's all understandable. We listen to all the voices: in the territories we hear people telling us everything and more; but then we go to touch with hand what happens in hospitals, like people who die without being able to breathe. Then you change your point of view on many things. There are people dying all of a sudden. Finally, today we are talking about reducing limitations and a slow return to normality. I speak of a slow return to normality, because we will still have to pay attention to what we will do, where we will go and how we will behave. We should have learned a lot from this period about scientific and hospital data, about the real situation of infections, especially about medical structures that are fundamental to everyone's health, and not someone's. Finally - you will say - it is an intervention with positive things. No, absolutely not, because this two-year emergency has highlighted all the shortcomings in our society. This emergency situation has revealed deficiencies in health, school, family, work and I could go on a lot. During this period, we have seen the States under a total blockade of their economies, rightly investing billions quickly to cope with the critical situation. So I wonder, what if it was like this for the tumor? In this regard, I address an invitation to Mr. Undersecretary: we have been waiting since 2019 for the implementation decrees of the National Cancer Register, which is fundamental to everyone's life. [[Applause]] Today we would have another situation if we had invested the same resources and energy, because we have the know-how and money cannot be a limit for society and human dignity. What is the situation today? People could not have the only thing - for example - they can do against cancer, which is to control themselves. Even the simple magnetic resonances have been postponed - the Undersecretary knows - and this has led to an incredible increase in cancer cases in the world, because there were no controls, because the departments were full, because there was the Covid. So let's think and think about what we say and what happened before our eyes. At this time we saw people hurling at each other - I'm no vax, I'm yes vax, for me it's all fake, I'm scared, etcetera - without respecting anything anymore and nobody, screaming and insulting anyone. The whole thing happened as the world went into ruin and would require greater union and humanity, as we see today. Let's get back to the vaccines. They have scientifically reduced the effects of Covid and its variants: this is before everyone's eyes. We are talking about a virus that has struck us by surprise, creating huge consequences and emphasizing that we still have a lot to learn to deal with extreme situations. Of course, at this moment, there is only one thing to say: to me personally and to thousands of people, even here, in extreme and dramatic difficulty, they helped us and saved the lives of the superheroes we call nurses, OSS, doctors, operators [[Applause]] : in short, anyone who has put his life at risk to save ours, every day, putting his family at risk as well. That's what those people did. There are those who play on this and it is a shameful thing, according to my point of view. Believe me: not out of malice, but those who have not lived it cannot understand all this. One last thought: we found ourselves faced with the obligation to redefine ourselves and who we are, in the necessarily deprived relationships, uncovered or rediscovered absences, presences never evaluated before or little observed in the integrity, so many parts of the self that have had the opportunity to emerge and, therefore, have been made available to a personal and intimate elaboration. We find the self and we find a new us. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President, with a simple invitation. Let us open our minds and hearts; let us learn something from this difficult lesson, learned by force in recent years, and let us pay tribute to the great sacrifice made by all the families, relatives, friends and loved ones lost during this period, showing them that today perhaps - and I say perhaps - we are on the way to being better. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u35	The general debate is closed. The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2542, converting Decree-Law No 1 of 7 January 2022 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u37	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 1, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u40	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Italy has always given good evidence in the fight against the pandemic and also the choices made by this Government have been very important: we simply think about the way in which they have allowed the third wave to be managed, compared to other countries. But now we are in a completely different sentence: the fourth wave did not do any particular damage, partly thanks to vaccines and partly thanks to the measures introduced by the decree-law at our examination, when there was the risk of having millions of Italians at home. It is not by chance that all European countries are abandoning the emerging measures, with the idea of returning, within a few weeks, to full normality. For these reasons it has a certain effect to have to convert today a decree-law that made sense the first days of January, but that has much less so today, especially if from the government does not arrive a clear message on the relaxation of the main measures. Our Group was among the first, in May 2020, to ask for a loosening, differentiating the regions according to the number of cases. We were the first, a year ago, to say that the experimentation of the green certificate in South Tyrol was a model to safely reopen the closed places and we were the first, last autumn, to ask for more stringent measures, following the Austrian 2G model, to push on vaccinations; as in some fringes we specifically asked the government to introduce the vaccination obligation. This is to say that we have never had a harmful approach and we have never entered into the faction of the open tourists or of those in favour of closures, but we have always reasoned on the basis of the real situation and we do the same now. There are no more particular reasons to keep a whole series of restrictions alive after the end of the state of emergency. I don't know if we are really out of Covid, but what is certain is that, in the hottest months, the virus slows down its race: it did it already in 2020, let alone now that we are almost all vaccinated and that 10 million Italians have already contracted the virus. We need to lighten the use of the green pass, eliminating it for some places and returning to that base for everyone else. We can replace ffp2 masks with surgical masks in indoor locations, if not completely abolish them this summer. We must do this above all for schools: in the paediatric age - as the Scientific and Technical Committee has also said - ffp2 are unsuitable for children's lung capacity. We must remove all restrictions on events, also because - as we see on football fields - reduced capacity leads not to distance between people, but to their concentration in some areas of the stadium. We need to give serious thought to quarantine, in the idea that if the virus is really taking on endemic characteristics, it must be treated as such. We can do all this and in the meantime insist on the vaccination campaign, in the hope that the new Novax vaccine will help convince some other skeptics. We will therefore vote in favour of this measure today, but we do so in the sense that its function is essentially exhausted. Now we have to start again and get back to normal quickly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u43	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, the recent terrible Ukrainian crisis seems to have clouded the impact of the pandemic. Yet, it has been two years and beyond that the world and our country have been and are currently engaged in the fight against the virus. These days there is a strong sense of detachment, at least media, on the impact of the pandemic. We are therefore particularly pleased that today, in the brief examination of the decree-law, we have received our own agenda on the health emergency in Ukraine. Basically, the government is committed to facilitating a health path for the Ukrainian population already devastated by the war and weakened by travels from their country of origin, in particular for families who already generously host and will host family members from war zones, offering medical reception at our health centers, providing all kinds of assistance regarding the pandemic emergency, both on national territory, and in war zones. Unfortunately, it is scientifically proven that wars worsen the health of citizens because of the impossibility of continuing to treat themselves and, above all, increase the risk of the spread of diseases, especially infectious diseases. It is unfortunately the history of pandemics. Already many Regions are preparing to vaccinate the people who will arrive in Italy. Let us remember that Ukraine, unfortunately, is one of the countries with low vaccination levels: only 33% of the population are vaccinated with two doses. I say this not to make terrorism, but also to prevent the spread of the Covid-19, which has not disappeared, and above all to protect and do everything we must not to spread the Covid-19 meanwhile in the Ukrainian population. From the images we get we see that many people are assembled, unfortunately, in the metropolitans and, therefore, it is very complicated to manage the situation. However, many regions have already been alerted to this and I repeat that we are particularly pleased that this agenda has been adopted. Returning to the situation of our country with respect to the contagions, it is very comforting that there is a decrease in the number of admissions both in intensive care and in ordinary departments. For two years we have been having discussions sometimes without scientific content and without information, but we must stop, because it is clear that this result is due to a serious vaccination campaign, especially after the appointment of General Son, with the Government Dragons. My colleagues recalled that over 90% of the population is vaccinated, so it is undeniable that the Italian people, rightly, have joined the vaccination campaign. And also the findings of the green pass base and the strengthened green pass are before everyone's eyes in the decline of the epidemiological curve. Of course, we agree with what was said about the opportunity to gradually lower the contentious measures taken so far. Premier Draghi, no later than yesterday, even at this moment of enormous difficulty caused by the conflict, reiterated that on March 31 there will be an overcoming of the state of emergency. However, we must be aware and aware that in reality we do not yet have a completely vertical deflection of the impact of the pandemic. Even the new vaccine may help us to convince those who have not yet come close to vaccination and it is pointed out that, even if the virus - as we hope - became endemic, this would not eliminate the impact it would have on the population, especially fragile. If there is one lesson that we have had to learn from this pandemic, it is that we have to anticipate the virus, predict that there may be a new revival and take the necessary measures in time. We therefore hope that every citizen and every citizen - I trust in the sense of responsibility of the Italian population - will have a behavior at last serene and freer, but with caution. We know that prudence is the virtue of the strong and that we need to get stronger out of this pandemic. The colleague who preceded me, Senator Romagnoli, spoke of a sense of self that can become a sense of us. So what we need to do is also psychological work with ourselves to get stronger out of the epidemic. We therefore trust in the prudence of citizens, so it is clear that avoiding excessive assembly or even paying attention to any symptoms related to the pandemic can be an important signal of self-management and comfort for the same health facilities. Last Sunday we celebrated the second National Day of Social Health Staff. I had the opportunity to participate with the doctors' order to this day and we talked to children and family members of people who died because of Covid. We cannot forget the pain of so many families. Let us bear in mind - some colleagues have reminded us - that the pandemic crisis has been accompanied by a crisis linked to the current conflict, to which energy restrictions will necessarily be added. Two major difficulties such as these could also create serious problems for our country's social, economic and health estate. Furthermore, it is good to remember that there is also the problem of the long Covid - we discussed it in the Health Commission - which we still cannot fully assess the impact. We know, however, many people who have had the disease and still have symptoms such as asthenia, respiratory and cardiovascular difficulties, of which we do not yet know the outcomes and development. For our part, on the part of politics, we must have greater surveillance and prevention, especially - for example - on the subject of transport. We probably need to do a lot more. We are very happy that the school has returned in presence. We are a political force that has insisted so much that the school and the university could return in presence, because in this area too the psychological damage will be measured in the long term. Recently the psychologist's bonus has also been approved from the other side of Parliament, and we have had so many amendments in this House. In a few days, two years will have passed since lockdown; two terrible years that have changed our lives as well. We've lost the taste of normality, and slowly we have to recover it to get out of a pandemic that has also left us psychological scrambles. Of course, the government and Parliament had to restrict or extend measures in this period depending on the evolution of the epidemiological curve. Also the provision contained in the decree-law that we are converting, the vaccination obligation for the over fifty, I remember that it was done at a time when there was the spread of Omicron 2, and it was done to protect the individual people - the people later with the age are more fragile and you cannot continue to deny these objective data - the over fifty and the whole population. Another lesson of the pandemic that we must not forget is that those who protect themselves protect others: this is very important. It was therefore a necessary measure. None of us is happy with the course of the conversions in law of the decree-laws, because even today - the day proves it - we did not have the opportunity to intervene with an amending activity. Of course, the wish that we all hope for is that the Covid will loosen his grip and that parliamentary activity can also return to normal and normal. Of course, we vote strongly in favour of the measure under consideration as Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I.. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u46	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy are voting against both on the subject, because we would like - as we have asked several times - the abolition of the super green pass, and because we find ourselves once again in the government's umpteenth request for confidence. Brothers of Italy is for no to trust this Government, but I would like to motivate it. We are opposed because the Government has demonstrated its inability to manage the pandemic, also because - we must say it clearly - we see that all the data comfort us from this point of view. We have seen the decline in contagions, the decline in intensive therapies (by now it is clearly below 10 percent), the decline in hospitalizations in the Covid departments. So we can't understand why you still want to continue on the road to the super green pass. Instead, you should note, rather than the narrative and the story that this majority makes to the Italians, that the management of the pandemic has not been successful. I say this with great regret. Unfortunately, Italy - as the official data say, because it is not that said Brothers of Italy - is among the first countries, in Europe and in the world, both by mortality and by the lethality of the coronavirus. This should make everyone understand that - as we say - perhaps there have been errors in management. I do not want to talk about how much money has been taken away from public health over the years: it is over 37 billion. If, on the other hand, these investments had occurred, the management of this pandemic could have produced completely different results. But let's come today. The data tell us that Italians have been extraordinary in getting vaccinated, despite all the confusion, even from the point of view of communication, that this Government has done on vaccines. I think you all remember what happened with some vaccines: first over fifty, then over sixty, then over forty, surely creating confusion, fear, doubts and questions from Italians. Despite all this, however, despite the government's inability to manage communication and information with Italian citizens, today we can say that Italians have been extraordinary, because over 90 percent is now vaccinated. The government, then, should note that those who wanted to immunize themselves have been vaccinated and those who did not do it today we do not believe that it can change their mind: maybe a small part will do it, but not so much as to substantially change the numbers of the vaccinated. I remember, here too, the confusion made by the government, giving the data on the famous cover that we had to have to make sure that the virus circulated less among the Italians. Here too, however, these data have now completely disappeared. Why, then, continue with the super green pass? Why continue, in addition to denouncing what is a fundamental principle of our Constitutional Charter which, in the first article, states that the Italian Republic is based on work? Why continue, complaining not only about the Constitutional Charter, but also about what has been done, which could have been done with swabs before? Among our amendments, which of course were rejected, there was precisely the request for salivary swabs. Instead, today you decide that the over 50 cannot work, they cannot therefore receive a salary, they cannot give continuity to their family, because you take away their salary. It is a very serious thing, moreover, at a time like this, really dramatic for families, with the increase in the cost of light and gas, with the inflation that is coming in a very heavy way, in a cross-cutting way, that will then hit everyone. And you continue in this decision to take off the job, to take the pay off the over 50 workers. I am a little grounded, because I thought that the union, which in Italy, at least in words, has always filled its mouth with the defense of the workers, had something to say, instead it is silent, shut up. The left, which has always filled the mouth of being on the workers' side, will once again vote in favour of this measure today in this House. But especially with the acts, you contradict each other, between what you vote and what you want. I would like to take you back, in fact, to the time when we elected the President of the Republic and all of us were asked, regardless of having all three doses of vaccine, the first, the second and the booster, to do the swab. And we were asked the same morning, because it had to be, not only a third generation buffer, but also done in the last few hours. We had to take a swab because otherwise none of us could have had access to the election of the President of the Republic. [[Applause]] He denies you on his own. Do things and then implement others. How do you feel in front of the Italians when the swab goes well for you beyond the vaccines? That morning I didn't understand why, even though I had all three vaccines, I had to take a swab. There is something in your facts and narration that does not come back and see that time is a gentleman from this point of view. For the truth will come out, and you will be disproved by the facts. Why do you keep not thinking about those families, where maybe there is only one person who brings home the salary and who will not be able to put together lunch with dinner for their children? Despite the data that you all know and that I have reminded you, continue to make mistakes. Brothers of Italy cannot be there, not because we are against vaccines; I want to say it clearly. Not only does one person speak, of course, who did all three doses of vaccine, but I also remember that we have always said that vaccines were absolutely fundamental in the fight against Coronavirus because they saved from the cemetery and hospital, certainly not from the contagion. I don't even want to remember when on July 22nd last year the President of the Council Draghi in a press conference told all Italians that the green pass gave the security to attend safe places [[Applause]] , because it was not possible to contagion. How many lies, how many things have you told that they were not right, that science has denied. Afterwards, long after what we said, we certainly did not want to replace doctors, we were right because the vaccine does not exclude from contagion. It is true, and I say it forcefully, that excludes serious illness. And so today we take note of the Government's will to continue to make mistakes; we also take note, once again, that you put trust. I remember when some Members of the Movimento 5 Stars said that Parliament's role had to be absolutely central. Once again, however, you will vote for the confidence of a government that is being trampled on by Parliament, which does not enable us all to do our work in the Commissions and by tabling amendments. Nothing, all this does not apply to you and then, very often, your mouths are filled with a word called democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u49	IORI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unexpected has broken into our lives, first with a pandemic and now with a war not far from us. In these hours all our attention is focused on what is happening at the eastern border of our continent, where Russia has decided to undertake a violent aggression against a free and sovereign state. I would like to reiterate our closeness to children, women, men who are suffering unspeakable pains and people in need of care and assistance also in relation to their vaccination situation. In this international context, which is so alarming, we are rightly continuing to do our work, which in this case concerns the other major emergency of our time, the pandemic. The Draghi Government has faced the pandemic resurgence of recent months with measures strongly supported by the Democratic Party and based on the principles of graduality, reasoned risk, prudence in relation to national and international scientific data, to try to preserve our lives. A choice that - we have to say it clearly - paid, because, in the difficult months between November and January, while many other countries were forced to close or to go back to the initial openings, we were able to manage the acute phase without taking draconian measures that would further penalise citizens, businesses and families. Covid, in fact, is fought not with propaganda, but with a serious and progressive approach, based on data and not on opinions. The vaccination campaign - we are third parties in Europe for doses given - has enabled us to deal with difficult times with responsibility, and that is why we have supported the need to introduce the vaccination obligation for the over 50. Moreover, the extension of the vaccination obligation also for university staff, institutions of high artistic training, higher technical institutes; the extension of the commitment of green certifications for services to the person, for public offices, for postal, banking, financial services, for commercial activities (subject to those necessary to ensure the satisfaction of essential needs) are some of the measures that have concretely allowed to contain the contagions, the shelters, the deaths and at the same time have allowed our economy to share. The new measures announced aim to allow for a progressive road map in this direction, which combines health protection and economic recovery. The second theme worthy of attention is the green pass. We are well aware of the controversies - instrumental in many cases - that have concerned this instrument. Well, changes have been introduced to the House that must be read in relation to the change of the current epidemiological framework, very different from the one in which the decree-law was issued. However, I would like to stress that the green pass was an important tool, which encouraged vaccinations and provided a clear message to citizens who acted responsibly. Let us also remember that Covid has had an indirect devastating effect on many other health areas: cancer screening, chemotherapy treatments, the treatment of chronic diseases. Well, vaccines have made it possible to reduce the pressure on hospitals and, increased the audience of vaccinees, it has been possible to return to a clinical management that has put the many suffering people back at the centre in these long months. Moreover, the introduction of the principle of the right of continuity of visits to residential, social-assistant, social-health facilities in hospices; the new measures to deal with cases posed by schools in sports competitions and the introduction of the principle of the right of continuity are the many new elements that give the sense of seriousness to the road travelled. I want to focus on one of the most important issues: school, which has suffered in a very significant way the consequences of the health crisis. In this sense, I am happy with the work that the Democratic Party is doing and here, in the Senate, our Group. I would point out in particular two issues: first of all, it is important to have established that school institutions are in any case required to guarantee and make effective the principle of inclusion of students with disabilities and special educational needs, even in the case of suspension and reorganisation of activities. The second is a very strong and important signal, namely the establishment of the Educational Restoration Fund, to be used to promote initiatives for the recovery and consolidation of learning related to school hours in lost presence by students who have been subjected to isolation measures due to infection, through free extracurricular activities, cultural activities, sports, summer stays, study support, psychological and pedagogical support. The Covid-19 has profoundly changed the face of our community, putting in the foreground the need to restore centrality to the person in its complexity and, consequently, rethinking the services in the key of proximity and multidisciplinaryity. In this context, the school was and remains a fundamental element of the reconstruction and development of communities, because it is the institution indispensable to keep it united, to make it grow and to allow the youngest to participate, to be included in the collective life. Unfortunately the pandemic has widened the differences and has brought out new fragility in the social fabric. Children in particular have suffered from the effects of restrictions, starting from the lack of teaching in presence, which has increased inequalities in educational paths, learning opportunities and relational ones. Let us remember that there are 10 million under 18 citizens who have no form of support except the excellent work of third sector organisations. Now the challenge in the coming months will be precisely to strengthen and rebuild educational alliances, to widen the networks of collaboration between educational institutions, local authorities and the third sector, with all associations operating on the territory, from sports centers to speakers. This is the tool to strengthen the educational provision from the youngest age to the adult one: to support families, to combat school dispersal and child poverty, to sew up the social fabric by putting the person and growth at the centre. The intersection of all these worlds should gravitate around the school, building community education pacts based on two indissoluble elements: co-design and co-responsibility of educational action. We need to find ways to get back to the youngest, to co-build communities to get back together. Meanwhile it is urgent to continue with the gradualness and rationality that have characterized the action of the Government, because the storm is not behind and it serves vision and vision. The country needs to build its own future and not a permanent election campaign. I hope that all political forces will show firmness and responsibility in this direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u52	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we can say that we have left the great fear behind. The line of prudence and graduality seems to have paid. The days of the mileage queues for tampons in front of the pharmacies, of the ambulance sirens for hospitals, of the polemics and demonstrations of those who had stubbornly decided not to vaccinate seem far away, also because in these hours we are all facing another dramatic emergency, which calls into question democracy and freedom in our Europe. We are facing a war that is within the confines of our Europe; we should say "close" rather than "inside," but in our country tens of thousands of Ukrainian women and men are already living to which our solidarity goes. We will not leave them alone to fight Putin's Russia that invaded their country. Today we are in the Chamber to examine the bill, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 24 February, which converted Decree-Law No 1 of 7 January 2022 into law, introducing urgent measures to deal with the emergency Covid-19, especially in workplaces, schools and higher education institutions. Let's face it: all of us count the days that are missing on March 31, the announced end of the state of emergency due to the pandemic by Covid. Only two months ago there were more than 108,000 contagions a day, which yesterday were more than halved (46.631); of course, the deaths are still too much (233), but the data that give hope are the positive rate, which has dropped to 8.8%, and the number of hospitalized in intensive therapies and medical areas, which with constancy decrease day after day: two months ago there were 14,600 beds occupied in the medical areas, today there are 10,000; two months ago there were 1,500 places occupied in intensive therapies, today less than half (709). The balance of these two years of pandemics is dramatic: 155,000 dead, almost 13 million infected. But we are optimistic - and especially science - because the vaccination campaign has worked and the vaccine has saved thousands of lives. 83.4 percent of the population completed the primary vaccination cycle, 85.45 percent is partially protected and, considering the over 12, 91.24 percent of the population is. What we are about to vote on is the decree-law that introduces until 15 June 2022 the obligation of vaccination against the Covid-19 for subjects aged 50 years or older, obviously excluding those for whom there is a clinical contra-indication to the vaccination under consideration and those who have contracted the Covid. However, the measure that will be remembered of the decree-law under consideration is the obligation of the strengthened green pass, that is generated exclusively by vaccination or healing for access to public and private workplaces and judicial offices by subjects aged 50 years or older. I have listened to Mrs Santanchè, who accuses the Left and the unions of not having defended the workers. Yet, precisely the line of rigour, the green pass, the vaccines have allowed this country to continue marching, they have saved the companies, our economy and therefore the workers. That is why I do not understand this emphasis of my colleague, Mrs Santanchè. We know that this has been a painful measure and we all hope that, with the end of the state of emergency at 31 March, we can progressively eliminate many limitations that this entails. I say to the representative of the Government that I hope that the strengthened green pass in the workplace will cease. However, we must be clear on one point: as long as science does not say so, the end of the state of emergency does not in itself decree the end of the pandemic; we will certainly see the places where the green pass will be needed, but even today the exit from the obligations will have to take place gradually. I don't think the time has already come to live with the disease; certainly it is no longer necessary to wear the mask in the open air, except in case of assembly, but indoors? In eight days, according to the decree-law under consideration, for example, the consumption of food and drink at the theatre, in concert halls, in the cinema, in the stadiums that are gradually filling up. We all want to avoid these measures. We all love freedom. It is not that those who support or have supported the line of rigour do not love freedom. We all love freedom and we all think that everyone's health was our lifeline, written in the Constitution. The effects of the highly contagious Omicron variant were faced because vaccines and rigor worked. Now we can look to the future with more optimism, even if the winds of war blowing over our Europe worry us very much. In announcing the vote in favour of the Senators of LEU-Ecosolidali, I would like to highlight two points, which I always put to the attention of the House in my speeches. The time has come to reflect together on the need for health reform. It is because we have been able to rely on public health, despite the cuts and the penalisation of territorial medicine, that we have endured, even if with a dramatic toll of victims. Today, which we are emerging from the emergency, we must strive to give organicity and tackle unsolved nodes, to make a qualitative leap. Finally, in order to return to normal life, we must secure the planet and vaccinate everyone, even women and men living in poor countries, because the Covid knows no borders. So we vote "yes" to trust as Senators of LEU-Ecosolidali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u55	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). President, government, colleagues, first of all good afternoon. Today we must express and express a strong vote in favour of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 1 of 2022. I listened carefully to the debate and listened carefully to the speeches of colleagues from other political forces. I have to say from this point of view that sometimes, precisely because we are dealing with many topics and probably in memory they confuse the different aspects, we feel the difficulty of putting in line everything that has happened and the many turns and demands that we have witnessed. Once he protested because it had to be opened; then he protested because it had to be closed; then he protested because the schools were open; then he protested because they were closed; then he protested for the vaccine; then he protested because maybe there was no obligation for doctors. In short, I believe that the fundamental point that leads us to vote firmly in favour of this decree-law and the line that the Government has held over the last few months is that it is a clear shore of a path, which has been followed for a year now with the clear will to keep the bar straight on certain issues. What does it mean to keep the bar straight? As my colleagues have said, Italians have responded to vaccination: 89-90 percent of people have been vaccinated; obviously the call for responsibility has been accepted. Schools are open (other point of focus) and above all we have a very clear perspective with reference to the end of the state of emergency. My colleagues, in their previous speeches, mentioned 31 March, and I think it should be pointed out that this morning, in the Commission, the Government gave a favourable opinion on agendas, subject to rewording, with reference to the date of 31 March as the end of the state of emergency and also to the timetable of measures to be taken to get out of the pandemic situation. I therefore believe that this is the most important perspective that we must bear in mind and that must be our next goal, in order to always try to have precise objectives in mind. So the announcement has been made and it has been followed by other statements, and there are still the opinions made this morning in the Commission: this means therefore that from 31 March we will no longer have "colored" regions; that will cease the obligation of these masks, which are not optimal to keep, at least outdoors, and that then, gradually but inexorably, will also be revised the use of the instrument of the green pass, which - in our opinion - has guaranteed Italy not to close and to work. [[Applause]] I believe that the work done by the Forza Italia Group in the House of Deputies should also be mentioned in this regard. It is true that we examine these decree-laws quickly, but let us not forget - because memory must not be very short - that before we lived of DPCM, that it was expressly requested that the DPCM passed to decree-laws and that in the sixty days necessary for their conversion it is obviously possible that things change and change. I therefore believe that the parliamentary work carried out by the Forza Italia Group in the House of Deputies, which has been positive, should be mentioned. It will, of course, remain at the regulatory level and this is not a waste of work. Amendments have been adopted, with particular reference to the assistance of people with cognitive skills problems - I am thinking of Alzheimer's disease - and this is because of our Group. Amendments have therefore been adopted to protect fragile people and improved amending proposals for the recovery of hours in favour of students who have lost hours of class. Therefore, even more so, our Group will vote in favour of this measure, because it has been able to carry out responsibly a definite improvement of the text. We know perfectly well that the path is long and we are so shaken by what has happened in Ukraine that sometimes, when we talk about pandemics, we seem to face a smaller problem, compared to a much bigger one. I would therefore like to conclude my speech with a very simple reflection. I always respect the opinions of others - as I think all the members of this House - even if I do not share them. Very often we hear about violation of fundamental freedoms, when we talk about the green pass or the limits that have been set because of the pandemic. I believe that what has happened and is happening in Ukraine makes us understand that words must be weighed. When it comes to freedom and rights that are violated or dictatorships, perhaps we should look at what precisely is a right that is violated and a dictatorship, and in any case a situation of violation of freedoms. There may be limitations imposed on respect and, above all, on the protection of other rights, and there may be violations which are an abuse and a real dictatorship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u58	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that it would be more appropriate, when discussing a decree-law, to talk about it directly and not perhaps in general about the importance of vaccinations or the green pass, as did those who intervened before me, retracing the whole history of the pandemic. Let us rest rather on the decree under consideration, which was issued in the first days of January, which we will of course vote on, because trust has been placed and we will vote on it for a sense of responsibility, as we have always done, because we have always responded to responsibility by people and by the responsible political group. It is certain, however, that, if there had been no confidence and we had to vote on the measure, we would probably have abstained. As already in the Chamber of Deputies, in fact, we have highlighted some criticalities of this decree-law, starting from the fact that perhaps the obligation of vaccination for the over 50 and for those at risk would have been better to predict it a little before January 7. Among other things, this measure today becomes somewhat anachronistic, because two months ago it could have its justifications on the basis of the very alarming data in terms of both death, occupation of intensive therapies, and hospitalizations, while today we are - fortunately - in a completely different situation. There is, however, another element that justifies our perplexities, because these are critical issues that have also highlighted our ministers within the Government, namely the issue of DAD for non-vaccined children. This decree provides that children between five and eleven years of age who are not vaccinated will end up in DAD compared to those who are vaccinated. This is discrimination, indeed - let us be clear - it is a masked obligation that we have not shared, first of all because we are talking about children. [[Applause.]] Among other things, someone - I say this to Undersecretary Sileri - must explain to us why there is all this insistence on children from five to eleven years old only in Italy, when caution is preached throughout Europe or at least vaccination is advised to children if they are fragile, if they have certain diseases or if immunodepressed. We would like to understand why this happens only in Italy, also because then there is a recent study conducted in eleven states of the United States that shows that children between the five and the eleven years are hospitalized more for the influence than for the Covid, because then you have to go to check all the data well. We understand the obligation for the over 50 and for a population group that was undoubtedly particularly at risk, but this insistence on children someone has to explain it to us. There is also another subject that has been introduced in this decree with an amendment: the difference in treatment between Italians and foreigners. If a foreigner arrives in Italy and has had two doses of vaccine for more than six months, just the swab and can easily enter the hotel or go to the restaurant. The Italian citizen cannot do this because, if he has taken two doses or had a cure and it has been six months, the super green pass expires. It is right to help tourism, we would be missing something else - we have the Minister for Tourism and we are the first to be satisfied from this point of view - but we cannot discriminate between a European citizen and an Italian citizen. [[Applause]] The point - as I said - is not so much this decree-law itself, but it is what will happen at the end of the state of emergency. Gentlemen Undersecretaries, Minister Hope, if the emergency ends, what will happen from April 1st? This chronoprogram for which you gradually get to the date of June 15 does not stand: if the emergency ends on March 31, the legal basis of the green pass fails. [[Applause]] This is what we need to highlight. Otherwise, the green pass becomes a political tool and no longer a health instrument. If we are not in emergency, why keep the super green pass, green pass and more? In fact, it is the same virologists who advise, given that the situation at the moment has improved considerably and it is assumed that at the end of March it will be even better, to give freedom to the citizens, since we do not know what could happen in October. We hope that everything will be fine and that the pandemic will be over, but we can possibly think of restrictions if things do not go well in the autumn. This is the period in which to guarantee freedom and serenity to the whole population. Now is the time to do so and not arrive until June. What does it mean to remove the super green pass for outdoor restaurants? It's a joke. Do things right, also because already now with the state of emergency of the sentences of the TAR of Lazio have suspended the provision of non-wage to those who do not want to vaccinate, because the judges consider necessary a balance between the constitutional principle of health protection and the right to sustenance. At this stage, with the arrival of the war, with all the economic difficulties and the increase of the bills, we can think of it as we want; but, if one does not want to vaccinate, it is unreasonable to take away his salary and not let him work. [[Applause]] I repeat: it is unreasonable. Mr. Undersecretary, everyone here thinks the same way; almost everyone. Do not abuse the patience of citizens and Parliament, because there is a unity of consensus. Since 1 April there will be some measures in this House and there will be some votes in this House. So tell that to Minister Hope, among other things founder of the party called Article One. Article 1 of the Constitution states that "Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour." [[Applause]] But he's the first to take the job off. Remember him, with elegance and politeness, because we know his character. So, there would be more, use all the precautions, but remind him, since he is still the secretary of that party. I have spoken about compensations, about the fact that this is the right time, about not abusing the patience of the Italians and of Parliament, but above all I wanted to say - this is the issue - that at a particular moment of difficulty, of acute phase of the pandemic, there is a need for restrictive measures. But if things go better and everyone rightly thinks that we must fight to defend democracy and freedom, let us begin to defend the freedom of our fellow countrymen. [[Applause]] I conclude by saying, also to the Ministry itself, that the Covid-19 is there. Nobody denies that. Prudence and caution, but we cannot, as a country, be obsessed with Covid-19. What's the result? The alarm cry of Italian oncology associations, with screenings that were almost all blocked. I quote data. There is a risk that in the coming years, from now to 2040, there will be a 32% increase in cancers, precisely because screening is not done, for a whole range of reasons: because we need to swab and because hospitals are occupied by something else. We work on this, as we work on the Law Lorenzin. I have asked several questions and have them also presented to the Parent Company in 12a. Commission, Senator Fregolent. The law, passed by Parliament on 22 December 2017, provided for significant benefits for research into paediatric cancers. Until now, Mr Undersecretaries and Mr Ministers, the implementing decrees have not yet been enacted. How is that possible? [[Applause]] Just the battle, just all the effort. I thank the Ministry for everything that has been done in the fight against Covid-19 and for everything that you continue to do. Colleagues, however, does not exist only the Covid-19. You die from many other pathologies and there are many children who would need those implementing decrees. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u61	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the evaluation of this measure, which the House is debating today and which will approve, we cannot fail to consider the temporal factor, namely the location at the exact time when it was planned and decided by the Government. Obviously, at that time the epidemiological situation of the pandemic - as many have already said - the curves of the contagions and the employment rates of our intensive therapies and Covid-19 beds in the hospital structures gave, on the whole, very worrying and extremely different signals from the current ones. They, on the whole, did not allow us to glimpse the gradual and progressive improvement in the general situation which, at present, puts us in a state of relative tranquility and allows - on the one hand - a progressive and gradual relaxation of the containment measures previously adopted; on the other hand, to look with confidence at the future and at the end of the state of emergency, scheduled for 31 March 2022. From the objective evaluation of the data collected and of the epidemiological reality in the different epidemic waves, in the phases of acuteization and in the rise of the contagions one cannot fail to recognize the fundamental role played, in an extremely positive sense, by the progress of the vaccination campaign. The various measures adopted, even with the obvious and objective general difficulties, related to the economic, social and health situation of our country, followed a logic and a path based on scientific data and suggestions of the direction booth, after having made the appropriate political assessments. The adoption of the green pass itself has been both a means of protection for the vaccinated and - at the same time - a means of protecting those who have not been vaccinated, hesitant and reept. Responsible membership of the vaccination campaign has certainly received a significant boost from the adoption of this measure. I want to believe that the information and awareness campaigns, increasingly capillaries and above all capable of motivating, have swept away many of the perplexities and hesitations of the many uncertain and reluctant to vaccinate; almost as if the tens of thousands of lives broken by the violence and aggression of the virus were just a bad dream or almost a surreal situation. On the contrary, they have been and still constitute a very sad and raw reality. The obligation of the green pass has undoubtedly given an important boost to the vaccination campaign - I repeat - allowing the recruitment of undecided and non-receptive citizens to scientific indications. The important thing was to reach the widest possible percentage of vaccinees and this has been done. Currently about 90 percent of the subjects have completed the vaccination cycle and are moving towards immunity of flock or community. These figures place our country at the top of the world by percentage of the vaccinated population. With this in mind, the measure of the vaccination obligation for subjects aged 50 years or older, the norm provided for in this decree-law, with obvious exclusions on a temporary or definitive basis, depending on the cases in which there are clinical contraindications to vaccination and for those who have previously contracted the Covid-19, wants to be an additional means to protect those age groups in which, according to obvious and objective statistics, the deleterious effects of virulence and disease from Covid are much more serious, progressive and, at times, unstoppable. The rapid progression of the disease is observed mainly in the non-vaccined or when there are more or less known concomitant pathological conditions. The data reported on the percentages of places occupied in dedicated intensive Covid therapies clearly photograph reality and are indisputable, with a ratio of about 80 percent of non-vaccine subjects and about 20 of those vaccinated (the latter always with serious concomitant pathologies). I would also like to point out that symptomatic forms are capable of making their clinical effects felt on the quality of life of patients even in the following years with long Covid syndrome, a recognized and increasingly frequent pathological entity. As we all know, the state of emergency will end at the end of March, as President Draghi has already pointed out. As our President Conte has also said, this result is the result of the efforts and resilience of all citizens and our community. We have gone through difficult times, with a path of great suffering; now we look to the future with confidence and the prospect of a return to normality. A plan must be put in place to gradually loosen all measures, an overall plan to revise the anti-Covid measures, in the light - as already mentioned - of the improvement of the epidemiological curve and the reduction of pressure on health structures. If we have reached this point, we cannot fail to recognise the effectiveness of the measures taken. At this new stage, changes and initiatives are needed to balance the right to health with the right to work, allowing an effective and decisive economic restart together with a gradual return to social and cultural life. However, we do not need sudden accelerations, which could subsequently lead to as many rapid braking. There must be a gradual progression, which - on the one hand - looks at the right demands of the entrepreneurial, commercial, economic and productive activities of our country and, in general, at the social needs urged by all citizens, but which - on the other hand - always takes into account the suggestions of science and the assessments of the epidemiological reality in its current state and in the future perspective. 13.35 a.m. (Mauton followed). With this in mind, the request for a global confrontation by President Conte and all the Movimento 5 Stars, which also includes the revision of the green pass, with a gradual plan for the elimination of its use. [[Applause]] It is not a question of being more or less open-minded or of passing the message - wrong, in my opinion - of free everyone; it is necessary simply to be realistic and balanced. The 5 Star Movement has always shown, in the difficult and sometimes controversial management of the pandemic, consistency, sense of responsibility, loyalty and commitment, in the sole interest of the citizens. Therefore, he will also vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u63	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u64	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, the leader of the Romeo League said that if the government had not put their trust, they would have abstained. Therefore, confidence is the Commission's blackmail of Parliament and obviously blackmail is the same as Italians who, if they do not vaccinate, cannot go to work; and if they do not work, they do not have a salary. Then I ask the government: but how should Italians live? Is anyone making the point when the health emergency in the country is gone? You are continuing to build and keep on building something purely bureaucratic; there is nothing about health care, this is just a bad, deceptive and hypocritical bureaucratic issue. That's why Italians have now opened their eyes and are losing patience. Some people think the Italians are gonna forget. No, they will not forget, because you have produced deep lacerations; there are people who are giving up their jobs and wages to carry out a battle of resistance that has all the sacrosanct right to be respected. And you are not doing this, because once again you are putting a question of trust - among other things, yet another - to a Parliament that is now debased; the underlying issue, however, is that you are putting a blackmail on the country. Guys can't go to the gym without a green pass: how is it possible for guys to keep going, at a time that was full of tension? They also experienced the clashes of adults: at least a little 'of the gym let him do it, without the obligation of this green pass! Do we want to talk about other issues that are now completely out of line with any logic? We no longer have a name and a surname: we are a magic square; how many times have we had to prove that we are someone, that we have a right by showing a magic square? Not even the identity card is shown so frequently. I'd say we're done. We had the opportunity to reset everything first with the question - but you said no, and now with the vote you will say no, because there is confidence in a government that only blackmails. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, then it is your last decision, but the Italians will not forget. It is up to you, at this moment, to decide whether Italians still have the opportunity to have rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u66	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u67	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, let us be clear: I have been vaccinated three times and I will not disdain the fourth dose if it is necessary. I appreciate the construction of Article 32 of the Constitution, which, in paragraph 2, ultimately contemplates the possibility of a vaccination obligation laid down by law, when necessary and necessary. Yet, in this case, it does not seem to me that the Government has presented scientific evidence to show that this obligation actually serves, above or under the age of fifty (generational). Above all, I find that the consequences and consequences have not been evaluated. In my opinion, it would have been probably enough what is laid down in Regulation (EU) 2021/953 of the European Parliament and of the Council and, to follow, the provisions on distance, masks and everything that has helped and directed us over the years. And yet what is ultimately a political measure has repercussions on this House as well as on work. This is a very serious matter, because, for a political and non-healthy measure, some elected representatives of the people are arbitrarily prevented from being present and voting here and today. It is a serious prejudice, which today - you will say - does not make a difference, but which, in principle and without prejudice to evaluation, could do so, if there were no obvious impediment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u70	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, by voting for the conversion of this decree-law, we are continuing on a road of impositions, obligations, bureaucracy and harassment which have nothing to do with health needs, at least at this time. Yet, from many colleagues in the League and the Movimento 5 Stars - but not the PD, because they are all absolutely in favour of constraints, vaccines on vaccines, obligations and impositions - I have heard distinctions. I have heard that it is no longer necessary and that we should immediately meet the demands of people who have not been vaccinated and who cannot work, but do not: they cannot assert their opinion, because there is yet another question of trust. But I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the face of these impositions by the Government, which puts confidence in this, the distinctions are not enough. That will remain the case: we will see who voted in favour and who voted against. Time is gallant man and you will remember in the future what you are doing. Now you have the last chance to recover, because until now you have voted for all the madness that this government has told you. This is the last useful moment: Remember that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u71	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u72	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2542, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 1 of January 7, 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings in the centre of this House. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Casini is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Casini. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2542, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 1 of January 7, 2022, into the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 229 Senators voting 228 Majority 115 Favourites 193 Contrars 35]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 1 are therefore excluded. At this point, the House must be sanitized and I suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.28 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u73	The next item is the debate on draft law No 988-B, approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Taricco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u74	Mr President, we are here today to approve at fourth reading the text of the provisions for the protection, development and competitiveness of agricultural and agri-food production and organic aquaculture. The text you have in your hands is strongly awaited by the world of agriculture in general and organic farming in particular, precisely because it provides a whole series of fundamental tools to address the challenges that agriculture in general and organic farming in particular face, especially in the light of the objectives of the new Community agricultural policy and the Farm to Fork strategy, which sets a very high and important objective for organic farming, namely to reach 25% of all agriculture. In order to face this challenge, the draft law under consideration, which - as I said - is much awaited by the agricultural world, tackles and sets out a whole series of instruments, starting from a technical programming table that aims to activate a national action plan for the conversion to organic, for the information to consumers, for the monitoring and control, for the support of district policies, for the certification of quality and for the control of the certifications themselves, for the research, for the traceability and for many other strategic objectives. The measure provides for the definition of a brand of organic farming realized in our country; this is particularly important, precisely because in Italy organic farming is the subject of great attention, control, verification and certification, which does not happen all over Europe and all over the world. To be able to say that a certain product has been made with the fees, controls and checks of our agriculture is an absolutely fundamental tool for consumers. A national seed plan is put in place, a development fund for organic farming is activated, supply chain integrations, sector research, vocational training courses, biological districts, the discipline of interbranch organisations and that of product organisations are supported. Framework agreements and supply chain arrangements are supported, the whole issue of seed certification is legally defined and the government is delegated to revise, harmonise and rationalise the rules on controls. This is the theme of the bill when we examine it. Very briefly, we are voting on the text at fourth reading, because the Chamber of Deputies has made an amendment to paragraph 3 of Article 1, deleting the second paragraph, which made explicit reference to biodynamics, and has extended, in paragraph 1 of Article 21, the action of the safeguard clauses, which no longer act only on the implementation of the norm, but also on the implementation of the legislative decrees which, following the delegation referred to in Article 19, the Government will issue. That is why we are here today to vote on the text at the fourth reading. In view of the fact that we have already discussed this measure at the time, when we approved it at second reading, and that there are all the documents available, I conclude my speech, to leave room for discussion on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u75	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u76	Mr President, I would like to thank the House and the Commission for finally completing this measure on organic farming, which is very important, as the rapporteur has said, because the Farm to Fork programme invites us to invest in organic farming and the new Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which will come into force shortly - so the Regional Rural Development Programmes (RDPs) will shortly be there - not only enhance the generational transition of farms, but also the investment in organic farming. It was therefore important for Parliament to produce a law worthy of this name, in order to regulate the mark. The organic market, according to Nomisma, in 2020 had reached 6,9 billion euros, of which an important share refers to export, which is worth 2.6 billion euros: so the Italian food market is really very important. I must say that I am very saddened by the fact that this draft law has had such a long process, because it has been intended from the outset to introduce biodynamic farming into it and I hope that Parliament will eventually be able to adopt a law and also an agenda, which we have tabled with Senator Cattaneo, who calls for the removal of... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fattori, forgive me for interrupting, but I have to ask you to wear the mask. FACTORS (Mixed). You're right, even if I'm spaced, that's right. I forgot. Sorry. There are other emergencies that make us forget that the pandemic isn't over yet. I was saying that I am very saddened by the fact that the process of the bill has been slowed down since the first reading to introduce the term "biodynamics" into the bill. That was the reason why we are at the fourth reading today, otherwise we would have given this opportunity to our farmers for months and months. The effort to make the measure in question consistent with a modern agricultural market has been very large and even now, in Article 5 and Article 8, we find the term 'biodynamics', although Article 1 does not even define it. For the first time we had introduced, within an Italian law, a registered trademark, which among other things weighs on those who require additional costs. I want to bring the voices of farmers, who are suffering a great deal at the moment, both because of the pandemic and because of the international upheaval. The current emergency is to guarantee farmers a fair price for agricultural products. The Committee on Agriculture has been working on the draft law on the minimum price guaranteed to farmers for a long time, and I call on this House to consider that all of us, apart from the chatter, then feed ourselves on real food, the food that farmers produce. The risk is that they will no longer be able to bring food to our tables, if we continue to pass laws that, instead of helping them, bear additional costs. Of course, I am now announcing my group's vote in favour of this measure, which, I would like to point out, guarantees the path towards sustainable agriculture and the reduction of pesticides. At the same time, I would ask you to pay attention to the agenda presented by Senator Cattaneo and many other colleagues, with whom we intend to commit the Government to finally remove the adjective "biodynamic" from a serious law, which would have needed to be passed much faster and which concerns the fate of our environment and an important sector such as organic farming, as well as the lives of our farmers, our farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs. I invite everyone to vote in favour of the bill and the agenda presented to finally free us from the esotericism that is often associated for some reason with a serious entrepreneurship like the agricultural one, no less serious than all other activities of Italian entrepreneurship. We must stop looking at agriculture as the world of dolphins, poppies and violets, as is often said, because it is a world in which there are serious and prepared entrepreneurs, who support our economy and our country, bringing on our tables the best agro-food in the world. Dignity is needed and this sector needs to be regarded as an important and difficult entrepreneurial sector. I would therefore no longer like to hear, as is often the case in political disputes, about arms stolen from agriculture, because agriculture is the most complex activity in which we need more expertise and preparation, both technical, economic and entrepreneurial. Thank you and we hope to discuss agriculture more often in this House, perhaps even with greater attention and presence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, we are finally here today to vote for this measure, which, speaking of farmers and farmers, was much awaited in the context of parliamentary work. In this difficult period in which in the post-pandemic phase and in the current war phase the economy is in difficulty, there is a need for answers. Italian agri-food is a milestone in our economy [[Applause]] That is why we must support it. It will be the future driving force of the economy; we will need goods, but above all healthy and genuine products, which can be used to drive the whole economy. Article 1 defines organic production as a comprehensive system of farm management and food production based on the interaction between best practices in the environment, climate action and the protection of natural resources. This is a very long-awaited signal, but it must be clear that, as I have already said at the time of the previous reading of the measure, feeding and feeding on organic products is a choice, as well as organic production: it is a choice of principle, but also an economic opportunity, given the demand of consumers, both in Italy and in the world. But do not become organic farming, the antithesis of agriculture with conventional methods: they are two realities that can and must coexist. Returning to the text of the measure, Article 6 establishes the Italian organic brand to characterize the organic products obtained from Italian raw material, marked by the indication "Italian organic," which is a protection for farmers and producers and a guarantee for consumers, since it will certify organic products made from 100% Italian raw materials. Beyond the controversy that has arisen in recent days, the world of agriculture and agro-food demands answers immediately. It is a signal, in a long-awaited measure, not to be stopped because it is thanks to this measure that the agricultural and agri-food economy will benefit more to redistribute on the economy of the territory and in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u78	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u79	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this general debate because I would like to retrace with you some passages of this bill which I believe are important and positive, and I would also like to bring forward to you the presentation of an agenda which will then be put back to the House. I would like to start on 20 May, when I tabled three amendments in this House on the law we are debating today, aimed at removing explicit references to biodynamic agriculture, especially as regards its equivalence to organic farming, paragraph 3 of Article 1. I have to say that I felt obliged to read in this House some of the esoteric practices that are part of biodynamic agriculture and I remember that many of you have told me that when the draft law came to the vote they did not know exactly what biodynamics were and, after learning it, some of you have told me that they had wondered how it was possible to mention certain practices in the final text of a state law in 2021, while science was, as it is still being, exalted by all sides for its role in fighting the pandemic. I remind you that those three amendments collected between 30 and 40 votes in favour, but the great majority of the senators had chosen to reject them, many also - it was explained to me - with the motivation not to slow down the process of the law. The only vote against in this House was my vote, the only abstention being that of Senator Fattori and the text has returned to the House. In the Committee on Agriculture, in July last year, the majority of Members, always in order not to slow down the process of the law, rejected any amendment on this subject and this - and I am sorry - despite many scientific societies having coordinated in an unprecedented mobilization to help us against the risk of legitimizing the magical thought in a rule of primary rank of initiative of our Parliament. Six of the largest Italian scientific societies in the agricultural sector have defined this choice as unacceptable for the scientific community. It is the associations that bring together our experts and scholars. I would like to remind you: the Italian Association of Agricultural Scientific Society, the National Academy of Agriculture, the Italian Federation of Life Sciences, the National Union of Academies for Agricultural Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, the Academy of Georgofili. In addition to the companies already mentioned, many of the most authoritative Italian scientific and research institutions have been mobilized: I am referring to the Accademia dei Lincei (also the scientific advisory body of the Presidency of the Republic), the Italian Toxicology Society, the Italian Society of Agricultural Genetics, the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities. Well, after a stop of more than six months, on 8 February last, the bill arrived in the Chamber and at the last useful moment the Members, with 421 votes in favour and none against, decided to intervene in a clear and unequivocal way to remove from a bill being approved the recognition of esoteric and non-scientific practices. As I have learned, the decision of the Chamber was the result of the desire to take advantage of the assurances that President Mattarella had addressed to Professor Giorgio Parisi, Nobel laureate for physics, last November inaugurating the academic year of the Wisdom of Rome. Professor Parisi, already from the previous summer, when he was president of the Lincei, had raised the firm concern regarding the presence of explicit references to biodynamics in the bill being approved, which he described as a frankly sorcerer's practice. I would like to mention, precisely in relation to the work of the House, in particular Mr Riccardo Magi, who, both in the Commission and in this House, has tabled and defended amendments aimed at abolishing that equivalence between biological and biodynamic. I think we must thank the House's entire Committee on Agriculture, the whole Government, starting with the Minister for Relations with Parliament, as well as the 421 Members. I believe that only through this choral commitment has that equivalence been removed from the scope and scope of Article 1 of that provision. That there were legal problems, the Committee on Legislation also pointed out this in an opinion calling on the House Commission to reconsider the equivalence between biological and biodynamic because there is no legislative definition of the latter. For its part, the House's Foreign Law Office at the beginning of June last year pointed out that biodynamic agriculture, albeit freely practised, was absent from all references in the legislation of France, Spain and even Germany, seat of Demeter international, the multinational of biodynamic certification. Yet, despite the agreement of all the Groups on Article 1, we know that Articles 5 and 8 have not been touched on in the House, in accordance with the principle of double compliance. These are articles that, even in different forms, promote biodynamics. Article 5 provides for a representative of the biodynamic associations, further and autonomous compared to those of organic farming, at the ministerial technical table established ad hoc. In Article 8, which regulates the national plan for organic seed, there is the reference to biodynamic seed. Colleagues, these provisions today appear to be unintelligible, since the equivalence to Article 1 has fallen and therefore there is no reason to consider biodynamic agriculture in the eyes of the law as autonomous with respect to organic farming, which includes it. Following the report of the Senate Agriculture Commission last Wednesday, I saw that colleagues from various groups had raised this issue. The resolution of this issue was based on the presentation of an agenda: a procedure on which many of the speakers in that debate agreed. It is for this reason that I have decided to present an agenda open to the subscription of all my colleagues who wish to do so, and already signed by my colleagues Zanda, Rizzotti, Fattori, Binetti, Lonardo, Unterberger, Bonino, Richetti, Masini, Quarto, Abbot, Bressa, Steger, Laniece, Di Marzio, Durnwalder and Perosino. This agenda commits the Government to exercise promptly the legislative delegation referred to in Article 19 of the draft law on the revision of the system of controls and, at the same time, to support all legislative initiatives aimed at eliminating direct references to the practice of agriculture by biodynamic method, as referred to in Articles 5 and 8 of this draft law. I too would like to share with you a reflection on the agricultural world, a rather complex world, which includes an important category of professionals and entrepreneurs, who make the fatal leaps, really, to comply with constraints that often conflict with the same entrepreneurial choices and that aim to produce healthy and safe food for us; a careful category, which must be attentive, to environmental and economic-social sustainability. Each measure must be calibrated for this, taking into account the scientific evidence available, in order to give relevance to a principle that goes beyond specific methods, i.e. integrated agriculture. A secular and scientifically founded concept of sustainability, which allows us, as Italians and Europeans, not to throw to the nettles, literally, centuries of excellence in the field of agricultural production and to depend less on abroad for our daily sustenance. This is what should be communicated to citizens, to encourage them to introduce more fruits and vegetables on their tables, following the guidelines of healthy eating, without unfounded fears, without the need to spend more. This is the national interest that I would like to see protected by a policy based on scientific evidence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u80	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u81	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues, strengthening the organic chain, the unique Italian organic brand, biological districts, controls, monitoring, data analysis and traceability: these are the fundamental issues for us in the draft law n. 988, on which, together with colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture of the House and the Senate, we have worked in recent months and which we are happy, today, to approve definitively. This is a text long awaited by producers and organizations. I thank the Government and the Undersecretary Battistoni, for his presence, but also for being an important point of reference, not only for us of Forza Italia. The agricultural sector cannot fail to be in the spotlight. If this has happened in the past, we must now, even more so, demonstrate the change of pace. The sector is under the spotlight for the excellent economic results, being among the few growing even during the pandemic. I am thinking, precisely, of organic farming, which has grown by 5%, with 2.1 million hectares cultivated using organic methods. As well as for sustainability, where our farmers' attention to the environment has grown by 57%, but also for what the agricultural sector has represented and represents at a time like what we are experiencing: certainty of healthy food on our tables. Therefore, it is clear that this law was a priority and of urgent approval, reminding myself that, in the Senate, it had already been fired in May 2021, as a signal of listening to an entire sector, which has long supported our gross domestic product, despite the innumerable difficulties linked, for example, to climate change, to the difficulties of access to credit, to the income of farmers, increasingly eroded and which, consequently, does not make all the necessary investments sustainable. In recent months, other alarming variables have been added to the problems that have been known for a long time to those who deal with agriculture, on which they are trying to work. For example, expensive energy, which is necessarily reflected in final prices and which has caused many companies to plummet: an increase in unsustainable percentage terms. Related to the problem of expensive energy there is another tragic problem: the war in Ukraine. My personal thoughts go to the Ukrainian people and to the families of those who unfortunately have lost their lives these days. [[Applause]] This has further highlighted our excessive dependence on gas and raw materials from abroad. Of course, this war will be reflected in the choices of our producers and consumers' pockets with the prices of essential goods that will undergo further increases as well as decreases in production. In this context, organic production, with its disciplines attentive not only to the environment, but to the consumption of raw materials, to energy sources, to the reduced consumption of fertilizers and plant protection products, whose prices have skyrocketed, can and must represent one of the allies to the reduction of the problems listed. It should be said that the Italian organic is ahead; it is ahead in terms of hectares, two million in Italy, about 16% of the utilized agricultural area; it is ahead of the European average of organic farming. In fact, the European average is 8%, compared with 16% in Italy. I would remind you that the objective of the European Community is to increase organic production to 25% by 2050. Since 2010, the number of organic operators has increased by 69 percent, while hectares have grown by 79 percent. Regions such as Calabria, Puglia and Sicily are among the first to mark these increases. Our organic producers are ahead. Precisely for this reason, it is essential to approve laws such as that at our examination, because they are signs of constant proximity to a resilient sector that brings the made in Italy to the top in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u82	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law which contains provisions for the protection, development and competitiveness of organically-based agricultural production and aquaculture comes to the attention of the House unexpectedly. While recognizing the need to equip the country with such an important and long-awaited measure, it leaves me very perplexed the way in which today it has been placed on the agenda. Now it seems that every little comparison is being choked, even the tabling of amendments is being precluded. What happened to the centrality of Parliament, which was also invoked by President Mattarella? We in the Commission argued that the term biodynamics, which disappeared in Article 1, should also be removed from the other articles, while agreeing that an agenda would be presented in which we would make the necessary comments and requests to the Government. To do this, however, we had to pray this morning and I thank the Government for having accepted the request. I don't think that's right. I think it's very serious. As far as I am concerned, I must stress that what comes to this House today is a worse text and certainly not better than the previous version. The text has been amended by the Chamber of Deputies, but while it is deleted from Article 1 of the text in question any reference to the biodynamic method (reference for which the whole scientific society has been raised and in particular the Group 2003, very contrary because the esoteric biodynamic is without scientific foundations), it is left instead to Article 5, relating to the technical table for organic production. [[Brusio]] I apologize, friends of the League, I am always very careful when you talk, but I think you always do the opposite when you talk to others. On the other hand, it is left to article 5, relating to the technical table for organic production and article 8, paragraph 1, which regulates the national plan of biological seeds the reference to biodynamics. This is not the first time this has happened in this parliamentary term. It is typical of this legislature that what comes out of the door comes out of the window or that what comes out of the window comes back out of the door. (16.06) (Lonardo followed). To respond probably - indeed, surely - to some powerful lobby has ended up removing the biodynamic method from the long-awaited provision that should have regulated the biological method, but the representatives are left at the Technical Table, granting this method a preferential lane and, even more serious that could create not a few problems, in article 8, paragraph 1, that is to say at a very delicate moment of the whole path which is that of the adoption of the National Plan for organic seeds, the latter must not only be suitable for the biological method, but also evidently for the biodynamic one. In the text of the law, therefore, there is a contradiction in terms, which affects this measure at two fundamental moments: value and transparency. The discussions in the Commission have been long and heartfelt, and I thank the President and the Commission for that. I quote from my colleague Silvana Abate, who was absent for health reasons, who raised with determination and legal arguments the burdensome question, together with me and Senator Fattori. We join by signing the agenda, prepared by the authoritative Senator Cattaneo, who had already tabled at first reading amendments repealing any reference to the biodynamic method to Articles 1, 5 and 8 contained in the measure in question. I hope that the agenda will be voted on. It would be a way to give voice also to those who think differently and who manage to grasp among the lines the dangers that are nested in a fundamental measure and I think it is very useful for the future of the community - I am talking about biological - that I personally will vote convincedly because, precisely, the biological is fundamental while I believe that the biodynamic is very tendentious. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, we are today called upon to approve the draft law on the development and competitiveness of organic farming, agri-food and aquaculture. The organic farming sector is constantly growing and Italy represents the third European country with over 2 million hectares cultivated by 80,000 farms. It is a cultivation that grows year by year and represents 16% of the agricultural area used in our country. Organic products are very popular and it is a growing market, increased by consumption that increases every year. In Italy the organic product market has a turnover of 3.6 billion annually and the decrease of imports from third countries allows us to give a greater value to Italian products, whose demand, on the other hand, grows abroad. Thanks to the great growth in both consumption and production, organic farming is now able to generate new jobs and above all to expand youth entrepreneurship. In fact, 20% of young farmers are approaching organic farming, which is considered as a concrete possibility to expand their economic activities, particularly in hill and foothill areas, where intensive agriculture is not very sustainable, as is the case in flat land. This allows to enhance the typicality of local and regional products, as happened in Trentino Alto Adige where, alongside the numerous agricultural crops, organic districts have been promoted, understood as local production systems integrated with agricultural vocation, characterized by a significant presence of organic production. In addition, the methods of breeding and processing typical of the place have been protected. The rule we are debating today can, therefore, add value to our agriculture by supporting our high quality products, which represent the modern response to the local traditions that come from the roots of our culture and the identity of our territories, and it is a law that our farmers have been asking us for years. The forecast of the supply chain table (Article 16) for organic products will help to promote and organise an efficient market for organic products and ensure the conclusion of so-called supply chain contracts. Organic farming is considered to be a privileged production technique for achieving all the environmental objectives envisaged. This is in a very specific context, in which the European Union, with the green new deal, the Farm to fork and with the protection of biodiversity, has set a clear horizon and commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, protecting biodiversity and creating a less environmentally friendly food production system. The European Union also plans to invest over EUR 40 million annually to promote the organic farming method, and sees this type of crop as an instrument to enhance and protect the protection of biodiversity, for a more sustainable agriculture. The action plan envisages supporting consumption, increasing organic production throughout Europe and introducing a new regulation to simplify procedures, revisit controls and strengthen them for organic products coming from third countries. The above is part of a more general framework of European agricultural and environmental policies, aimed at reducing the use of plant protection products by 50% and the loss of soil nutrients by 50%, improving their quality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on and finish. Thank you. Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). The draft law on the subject today underlines that organic production is a comprehensive system for the management of the farm and the protection of food production; a method based on the interaction between best environmental practices, aimed at safeguarding natural resources and sustainable development. These production methods are based on prepared and specific disciplinary methods, applied in compliance with the provisions and regulations of the European Union and national rules on organic farming, with the obligation to provide all information on the origin, quality and traceability of organic products. Thus there will be greater guarantees of third parties in the subjects authorized to control. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u85	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u86	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u87	Mr President, I am only speaking to give the House two clarifications that I think are necessary, since everything has been said about biodynamics and more. It has also been said that we gave money to esotericism and such things, when in no case is a single euro expected to be paid to what is not biological. Now it must be understood: the biodynamic, as it is done in Italy, in all three disciplines that authorize the certification, provides as an obligation the biological certification. Therefore, all products that today in Italy are certified biodynamics are, to all intents and purposes, also organic, therefore treated like all other organic products. So it is not true that money is given to esotericism. There is, however, one issue that has again been mentioned in two speeches in this House. We are not talking about an economic society - Demeter - that manages the matter. This is a photograph from 20 years ago. Today in Italy there are three companies that make certification: in addition to Demeter, there are Agribiodynamics and Biodynamics Verdèa, which also certify biodynamics, which are based in Italy and carry out their ordinary activities. We are therefore dealing with a certification system, just as with all other products that use a certified trademark. The second consideration is that I would just like to inform the House that the so-called biodynamic preparations, of which we have so much discussed and which are the object of the dispute on esoteric issues, in Europe are authorized to use in organic agriculture by Regulation No 2092 of 1991, then reiterated in Regulation No 834 of 2007 and Regulation No 848 of 2018, which have been transposed in our country by ministerial decrees transposing European regulations since 1991 to follow, therefore are officially produced authorized for use in agriculture and organic agriculture. I say this only for clarity, otherwise it generates the feeling that we are talking about who knows what: they are products authorized since 1991 in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u88	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u89	Mr President, I would like to ask for a short recess in order to examine the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u90	I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.16 a.m. and resumed at 16.22 p.m.) I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u91	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1100 agenda, provided that the following changes are made to the text: the removal of the part of the premises until "the text under discussion today" and the removal of the word "at once" from the system.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u92	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Senator Cattaneo, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1,100 proposed by the representative of the Government? CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 2 to 20 have not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u95	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, two out of three Italians now buy bio, demonstrating a greater sensitivity towards the quality of food and the environment. To approve the law on organic farming, which saw Italy Viva firmly promoting the initiative, thanks to the work of my colleague Gadda, in the Chamber of Deputies, the first signatory of the measure... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Mrs Garavini deserves to be heard or, at least, to be left free in her presentation. I therefore invite you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u97	Garavini (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that approving the organic farming law means first and foremost meeting the needs of both consumers and producers. It is not by chance that from the agricultural world, through their respective trade associations, the call for rapid approval of this text comes. It is in fact a bill that responds to the demands of the agricultural and organic sector, because it aims to defend producers and consumers and to guarantee the transparency of purchases, with concrete measures. Among the various particularly qualifying aspects, it is envisaged, for example, the introduction of an ad hoc label, which identifies as articles 100% made in Italy only organic products obtained from national raw materials. In addition, controls are enhanced and the use of digital platforms is encouraged to ensure full traceability of products. They are therefore all measures aimed at defending the sector. We are pleased that with today's vote there is a point of mediation, able to overcome the rhetoric that there would be opposition between traditional agriculture, on the one hand, and organic agriculture, on the other: the measure under consideration attests that it is not so; organic crops are proving to be a real flywheel for our made in Italy, to the point of making Italy the second country in the world by volume of exports of organic products, after the United States. It is an incredible fact, if you compare the size of Italy with those of the USA. Among other things, this type of cultivation has the merit of favoring the economically weaker regions, in particular those of the South, such as Sicily, Calabria and Campania, which are the first for quantities of organic product, because there are, among other things, optimal climatic characteristics, which allow a lower use of plant protection drugs. The biological in fact cannot be produced at every latitude and our country has the most favorable climatic and landscape conditions, in a territory that 70 percent is hilly and mountainous. In short, organic farming is good for the people who use it, it is good for the territories in which it is produced and it is good for the farmers who cultivate it. Last year the purchases of organic products made in Italy, for example, have reached the record of 7.5 billion euros in value, with 2 million hectares of cultivated land. They are dimensions that speak for themselves and contribute decisively to the achievement of the objectives set out in the Farm to Fork strategy in the European Union's green new deal, which aims to have at least a quarter of the agricultural production dedicated to bio in our country as well. In order to respond to Europe's demands on the green deal, it is necessary to facilitate the transition to organic farming by our companies and to do so we need ad hoc rules. We need laws like this, which has the great merit of filling that regulatory vacuum that has not allowed the sector to express itself in all its potentials to date. The European guidelines are clear and various exploitations on this issue are not based on the reality of thousands of companies, which are allowing many areas at risk of abandonment not only to continue to live, but also to find new opportunities for development, in a modern, sustainable and innovative way, with 80 000 enterprises and an increase in employment equal to 71 percent in the last ten years, so much so that Italy is leader in Europe in organic. It is therefore a sector that is far from minority, but strategic, which represents, among other things, a significant share of our made in Italy, both in terms of the internal market and at international level in terms of exports. It is a sector that needs to be supported, especially at a time as difficult as it is at present. It is to be feared, in fact, that for the Italian agri-food industry the next few months will be even harder than the past for many reasons, starting from the increase in the cost of agricultural gas oil, passing through the lack of packaging, up to the disproportionate increase in the cost of fertilizers and fertilizers: real, heavy problems, which fall on our farmers, which will now have to be compared with the harmful consequences of the ongoing conflict, also in the light of the various sanctions adopted in recent days against Russia. So, Mr President, in a country like ours, in which the arable land has fallen sharply in recent years, we must strongly say that we need more agriculture and more models of agriculture, including organic farming, adapted to different climatic and territorial conditions. We are convinced that the agricultural sector is a pillar of the country's economy and that it must be strongly supported, with supply chain policies that strengthen it. In particular, organic farming is an ideal area - and these days it is very important to detect it - to combine science and connection with the land. Today more than in the past, science is of fundamental importance to face the challenge of ecological transition, on the one hand, but also for the modernization of production processes, on the other, also in the agricultural field and can help to combine economic, environmental and social sustainability in a virtuous circuit that aims to preserve our agro-food production model, which has managed to make biodiversity and the relationship with the territory a competitive advantage in the world. In this way we also remove any alibi to those who oppose organic farming, accusing it of being the first step towards the production of synthetic foods. On the contrary - and we repeat this once again - organic farming protects our model of agricultural production, it does not alter it, it protects it. This bill goes in the direction of strengthening therefore a productive sector that does good to all our agricultural induced and recognizes the work, the commitment, the dignity and also the resilience of a sector, the biological one, important for the sustainable development of the country. To conclude, Mr President, I would also like to stress how proud we are of all our farmers, people who do work even physically very hard, exposed more than others to climatic and economic variables. I would like to express our gratitude for the many products of great excellence that they can offer, products that so frequently make us famous all over the world. I would also like to thank them for being able to guarantee with great effort and sacrifice the supply of our tables in the toughest moments of the first lockdown and the pandemic. In short, Mr President, I think that today's vote is a good page for our country, because approving this measure means making the interest of our whole society and of a real economy in real growth. Therefore, in thanking the rapporteur, Mr Taricco, the President of the Committee on Agriculture and all my colleagues, as well as the presidency of the Senate for wanting to schedule the measure quickly, I welcome the vote in favour of my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u100	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, today finally ends the obstacle course of this measure which, with the fourth reading in the Senate, we can say that it will be finally adopted. I say this because it is important and also to emphasize, listening to the speeches of so many colleagues, as is highlighted by the importance of agriculture, but - I am addressing the Government and my colleagues in the majority - beyond the words and all the compliments we give to our farmers and our farmers, it would be appropriate to be even more concrete, because basically concreteness is also measured with how much resources the Government makes available to agriculture. Unfortunately, in the various measures that we have seen, from the budget law to the PNRR, these resources are not adequate, neither at the level of this sector which is defined as primary, but which is also fundamental for our economy. The draft law that we are finally going to approve at the fourth reading in a definitive way is certainly an important step, a framework law, in fact, that puts order to the organic production sector in our nation, because, as has already been pointed out and as we have said so many times in the various explanations of vote and in the various interventions that we have done also in the previous readings, it is an important sector for Italian agriculture, as it is for the whole of Europe. There was therefore a need to put black on white and to codify a whole series of issues in order to allow our companies to work quietly. There are important aspects that have been mentioned: the organic brand, the constitution of the districts, the resources for promotion, but I would like to invite my colleagues to give a little thought together with me. Be careful not to pursue false myths as well. By this I mean that we certainly cannot think of concentrating agriculture entirely on the organic sector, because, as we know, organic farming has a much lower yield than the traditional one, which should instead be encouraged through investment and research, in order to enable it - being in turn an important sector - to produce enough food to feed our population. The world population is approaching, in the coming years, the nine billion people, who must be fed, and I do not think it is fair to them, nor to our fellow citizens, because I have heard many of my colleagues say that this is an important niche, that there are people who are willing to spend. I believe that this is true, but I think it is equally important to ensure that all citizens are able to feed properly, because we cannot, however, think that we then have A- and B-series citizens, who, on the basis of their economic possibilities, can feed better or worse than others. This is a very important social reasoning, which is particularly close to my heart. It is therefore good that this bill has regularised the whole sector, but let us be careful about these aspects. Today, unfortunately, the situation that has erupted in Ukraine, the war that some of you have already mentioned, leads us to a reflection regarding the food supply of our country, because there is not only an energy problem, but we also have one that we will have to face and on which we will have to confront with regard to food self-sufficiency. Today about 25% of the durum wheat we import comes from Ukraine and Russia: you understand that this, together with the agricultural policies of Canada, the United States and Australia, also has a heavy impact on costs, but basically it must lead us to reflect on what we are doing in our country to achieve self-sufficiency in food, at least in certain sectors. Unfortunately, we do not have it in any area, but there is no national strategic plan for food security today. On this we should confront each other and we must invest resources and certainly have a vision, all united for the next few years. Having said that, I would also like to make clear some of the things that have happened in the course of this provision. Moreover, I am pleased that Senator Cattaneo has accepted the rewordings proposed by the Government, because from here too a unanimous act and a commitment are born so that the nuances that still remain in the bill can be corrected. As Brothers of Italy, we have always supported its approval, as I told you, because the sector certainly needs it. However, we have always fought the equalization that exists within the law between biodynamic and biological, so much so that at second reading we had proposed in the Committee on Agriculture amendments for the repeal of paragraph 3 of Article 1, which were rejected. However, we agreed with all the other group leaders that we would not have tabled amendments in this House to facilitate the process of the measure. On that occasion, Senator Cattaneo tabled amendments on which we, in line with the line we had in the Commission, voted in favour. The measure went to the Chamber and an amendment was made to article 1, but unfortunately - as has already been pointed out - to article 5, which concerns the technical table of the Ministry for Organic, and to article 8, which concerns the national plan, has still remained the reference to biodynamics. I want to hope that it is a forgetfulness of a non-political character, but a drafting error, the correction of which was prevented by the haste for the approval of the House and for the fourth reading in the Senate. I don't want to think that it's a way to get the biodynamics out of the front door and then bring them back in the window, by involving a representative of this category at the technical table, and also recognize it within the national plan for the resources that need to be distributed. As I said, I am pleased that Senator Cattaneo presented this agenda and accepted the rewordings, because it is clear that there is a clear commitment from the Government to ensure that we can vote on the timely amendments to Article 5 and Article 8 of the law, which will be tabled in the next steps. I will not repeat so many things that have been said, partly because we have repeatedly spoken about this subject. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u103	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, today I believe that we can say, without a subject of denial, that for agriculture it is a day of celebration, expected - as I said before - for almost thirty years: in fact, thirty years the organic farming method has been operating in our country and was waiting, after a series of attempts in all the legislation that preceded us, for a law on organic farming to be passed. With today's vote, we are putting this important instrument on the table. It is not a solution to the problems of agriculture, which are still many and we have many on the horizon, but it is certainly an absolutely important answer for the sector. It is a festive day with a basic bitterness, I must honestly say, for the exploitation - unworthy, I dare say - of this affair was made, and in those ways. It has been said that we were giving money to esoteric practices and that is not true; it has been said that there was a private company as a single reference and that is not true, because there are three subjects that make certification; we have talked about biodynamic preparations, which, as I said before, have been legally authorised by the European Union and the Italian Ministerial Decrees implementing them since 1991. It has been said that that term, biodynamic, bore the equalization. I remember only the documents available to all those who, besides speaking, want to try to read the things written there: that term came from the House, because the biodynamic term we received it from there; it is at the Acts, the House and the Senate, the document of the Central Inspectorate of the protection of quality and repression fraud of agri-food products (Icqrf), of the Ministry of Agriculture, which asks that the term be left to ensure greater effectiveness in controls. Today, with the current norm, that reference to biodynamics is controllable, as biological, only by virtue of its own disciplinary, while, by putting it into law, it was by law. I have to say that, from this point of view, the text which is still adopted does not detract from the effectiveness of the checks, because in fact, in paragraph 3 of Article 1 it contains: For the purposes of this law, production methods based on prepared and specific specifications applied in compliance with the provisions of the European Union regulations and national rules on organic farming shall be treated as organic farming methods. Since biodynamic production uses preparations recognised by Europe and by ministerial decrees and has in its production specifications the obligation of organic certification, it is in fact part of this article. I think these points were necessary. I have a sort of retrothinking: that he wanted to attack on the hornetam and other issues not to mention biodynamics and what it really is. Biodynamics is a method that can be used or not and that can be bought or not. I am not a particular fan of the biodynamic method as such, but I am of the truth, as far as possible. The biodynamic method centers production on rotations, subvesces and the attention to humus in the soil, requires rotations with land left to rest to support the diversity of the environment, basically, and prohibits the use of herbicides, chemical fertilizers and ferments in the wine. I don't want anyone talking about the hornbeam, not to mention that, and I don't want anyone talking about the hornbeam and the biodynamic to shoot on the Red Cross, as they say, and indirectly attacking the biological. The fact that today we are here to approve the organic law is a very important fact, because organic is an extraordinary wealth for our country. I quote only two figures: in Italy there are 2 million hectares now cultivated organic, with over 80,000 operators in the growing sector, with 16% of agriculture, 4.6 billion domestic consumption, growing compared to last year by 5%, and with a spending for families that, with equal production, has grown by 133% in the last year. The latest polls say that nine out of ten families have confidence in organic and that one in two, when it can and the price is affordable, buy organic. Export has grown by 11% in the last year and, in the last ten years, by 156 percent and today it is worth almost 3 billion euros. There is an internal market worth 4.6 billion and the European Union, in its environmental sustainability strategy, shows us the objective of bringing it to 25% of all agriculture. These numbers and this photograph must be of great satisfaction to all of us. We have made an important service to agriculture and our country. I want to be very clear. I believe that we have on the horizon - and the commitment of the Agriculture Commission to this has always been dedicated - the objective of addressing and solving all the problems of all forms of agriculture, exploiting all the potential there are. There is no debate on this. However, I believe that precisely because we have this objective, this segment, destined to become a quarter of our country's and Europe's agriculture, must be valued. I believe that with today's pace we are giving important support in the right direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u106	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, today, after a long time, as Senator Taricco rightly pointed out, we finally come to the conclusion of the adoption of the measure at our examination, which is absolutely fundamental. The bill followed a long parliamentary process, which began in early 2018, although, to tell the truth, we had tried to address this issue even in previous legislation. The theme of organic farming is today, even more than yesterday, absolutely central and fundamental for our country. We need to be clear once and for all. This is a central issue for the conversion process. It is less fashionable, but the ecological transition is not only about energy, but also about land and agriculture's activities. In all the European programmes, as we have also recently pointed out, there is a reference to the theme and the strong idea of increasing all areas cultivated on organic land and, above all, to the Farm to Fork strategy and to biodiversity. It is precisely the Farm to Fork strategy that explicitly points to the objective that we must achieve in Europe: to achieve a certified organic farming area of 25%. Italy from this point of view is the country that has invested the most, that has done the most and that has been somehow the guideline in Europe. It is one of the highly expanding sectors; I do not repeat the figures that have already been mentioned, which I consider to be extremely significant and which relate to the increase not only of the cultivated area, but also of the sale of products and the consumer's liking. You understand well that we, who are almost 16 percent, must not lose the advantage we have, but put in place the instrumentation, the laws and everything we can do to ensure that this advantage, even competitive, is maintained and increased. I say this very clearly: all those who have hindered, using various pretexts, the approval of this law, do a damage to our country, to the producers and, in general, to the made in Italy. Organic farming was in fact the first sector to rediscover territoriality, to stay also in the internal territories, those that had the greatest difficulties, explaining that our agriculture is not unique, but that there are many agricultures related to the territory. This is our advantage, on which we have worked in recent years to ensure that more and more there was a strong appreciation of our territories and agriculture. I would very much like these crusades that we have witnessed to be made also to fight - and I hope that at some point it will be done from a scientific point of view - the abuse of chemicals and pesticides and soil depletion. That, yes, is in favour of science, the truth, the health of citizens and the economic advantage that we can draw from it. Colleagues, do not think that the fight against climate change - of which agriculture is one of the central elements - is done only and only with the energy transition. It is also done, for example, by no longer impoverishing our soils, putting in place such an agriculture that the soil maintains its main function, therefore also to absorb CO2, and that therefore helps ecosystems to regenerate (this is an absolutely fundamental element), reducing, among other things, the impact of chemistry and the use of pesticides that today even more, in the difficult situation in which we find ourselves - and not only because of the war, because the increases had already been - is a further advantage. I would also like to say something else: we must plant it once and for all to think that organic farming is that of the children of flowers or improvisation, because it is based on absolutely scientific methods and on the in-depth knowledge of the cycle of nature, interaction and complexity, which is often not easy to understand, but this is what it is. Above all, having worked a lot on this belief can help us even more today to improve in modifying - and it is essential to do so - our cultivation techniques. Colleagues, I am not an integralist, but I think that there are many lessons coming from organic farming and we need more science in organic farming, because - I repeat - it is based on scientific assumptions. Compared to all the controversy that has been raised about biodynamics, we must not now discuss practices or not, because the law was very clear about sticking to the protocols and regulations of organics and strengthening the system of controls, to guarantee all producers and consumers. We have to tell ourselves this once and for all. Well, the change has been made, but - I repeat - we must not lose sight of the objective. Today we will finally approve this bill. The government represented here will help us even more - thanks to the delegation contained - to put in place the tools that serve our producers, knowing that we have had and have a competitive advantage. We have had absolutely positive indicators with regard to all performances; think only of exports, whose data are significant, and also and above all to the growth of consumption, which means that a relationship of trust has also been created - which, more importantly, will be increased by the revision of the control system - so that the consumer, the citizen, has well understood how important it is for the environment, for ecosystems and for his health to start or continue to consume bio. Also the numbers of biodynamics - I would like to say - are important; they are a percentage that someone may consider small, but in my opinion also that is significant in the more general section of the biological. I would also like to say that we are also an exporting country on biodynamic agriculture. I always wonder what other interests are behind it. As far as we are concerned, we will vote in favour of the bill of conversion, which we have been waiting for a long time. Our interests are clear, as are those of the rapporteur, whom I thank for the work and patience, because they are the interests of our agriculture, our country, ecosystems and the health of our citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u109	DE BONIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's vote on the organic bill, we finally have the opportunity to bring Italian agriculture to the 21st century. In 2007 the first presentation by Senator Bonino, together with Paolo De Castro, of the text which, since then, equated biological to biodynamic. Today, Senator Bonino has changed her mind, but the tragic events we are witnessing show us that the transition to more sustainable development is a necessity that we can no longer postpone. In this context, a measure for the agricultural sector can also make a valuable contribution to the change that we urgently need. The draft law, which has been awaited for many years, fully fits in with the objectives of the European green new deal and the EU Farm to Fork strategy. In the absence of a national regulatory instrument, Italy has managed, through market instruments, to achieve considerable objectives: it is the fourth for production in Europe, for cultivated areas and for number of producers. Bio productions therefore represent a point of excellence of the Italian agri-food system, in which Forza Italia firmly believes, supporting entrepreneurs engaged in this sector. [[Applause]] It is a growing market trend, with about 2 million hectares and over 80,000 farms. In 2020 the turnover of this market, as other colleagues have also said, reached a share of 7 billion euros, an increase of 142% since 2010. Internal consumption is unstoppable. They are excellent results, but we are convinced that much more can be done, also thanks to the present bill. In fact, our country is naturally called in Europe to this conception of agriculture. In particular, the Mezzogiorno has a vocation that makes Sicily, Calabria and Puglia the areas chosen for the production of organic and biodynamic products. This type of agriculture promotes the health of citizens. Consumers have understood that by eating healthy food they save on health spending, they promote the protection of the environment and the ecosystem, they reduce, as has been said, the impoverishment of the soil and the loss of organic substance of our land and they favour the entire economic fabric of the primary sector, especially - and in this regard I invite all colleagues to reflect - in times of crisis such as the current one. In fact, the rotations and the lower energy and chemical input requirements protect against inflationary shocks and the lack of technical means necessary for intensive agriculture. [[Applause]] This morning some farmers of Coldiretti interviewed complained about the difficulty of fertilizing their arable land because of the rising prices of fertilizers and herbicides. Well: organic farming, with organic fertilization and with legume rotations, would have allowed to cope with the absence of these substances. So we have to earn. If Italy had already invested ten years ago in this sector, today we would certainly have a more comfortable, more useful and more favourable economic framework for the whole country system. [[Applause]] The bio districts, the possibility of registering the organic brand Made in Italy, the rationalization of the controls and other mechanisms contained in the norm can really facilitate the further expansion of a sector that, as I said, meets the favor of consumers, in Italy and abroad. What must be ensured, however, is that organics do not become the prerogative of a few elitist, stronger subjects, but really constitute a new method of production and widespread enterprise, which is for the benefit of producers and rural communities that today see the abandonment of the earth as the only possibility to avoid a serious accumulation of losses. As Italy we really have the opportunity to make ourselves leader in Europe of this revival of the primary sector and, among other things, also to guarantee the autonomy of supply and production, that in these days we have seen to be a fundamental theme of the national and international balances. Europe needs a change of paradigm, which can start from the primary sector and point that way to the rest of the economy, but does not discriminate against anyone. We have seen how having excluded the explicit reference to biodynamics from Articles 1 and 21 should not change much, because biodynamics is not a lobby, but a rigorous branch of the biological method, as was also said by Senator Taricco, of which however it respects all the norms. There will therefore be no problems in obtaining incentives. Producers can rest assured, they can continue to produce biodynamic crops in Italy, just in the perspective of a free economy that Forza Italia has always reiterated as its banner in agricultural policy. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that biodynamic agriculture, Senator Cattaneo, is already contained in European legislation: the European regulations on biodynamics were borrowed from biodynamics and, as has been said, biodynamic preparations have been regulated in Europe since 1991, and the representative of biodynamics has always been present in the technical table at the Ministry. Biodynamics, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is not a novelty of this bill: when there is a witch hunt, it is from inquisitors that we must defend ourselves. Finally, I would like to remind the House that the International Academy of Biodynamic Agriculture is one of the democratic organizations that the UN Declaration on the Rights of Farmers and other people working in rural areas calls on States to protect, as a garrison for rural populations exposed to speculation and attacks. For these reasons, I voted in favour of this measure by the Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u112	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, organic farming is a very important issue for our country, but I would like to mention the numbers of our agriculture, which is worth almost 32 billion euros; Italy is the first country at European level, if we think that French agriculture is worth 30 billion and Spanish agriculture is worth 29 billion. Organic is worth 3.5 billion euros and biodynamics is worth 200 million euros. It is important to legislate on all issues, as the rapporteur said earlier, but it is also essential to understand the size of the area of interest of the measure. The bill is important and fits into a context of great difficulty for Italian agriculture. I would say that today is also a moment of great celebration for the inauguration of the agricultural fair in Verona, an extraordinary event at international level, where there will certainly be some equipment, there will be moments of information and communication about especially organic farming. I believe, however, that the value we give to this measure, which is of great importance to more than 70,000 companies, is substantial, although these days it is already said that we are close to 80,000 individual companies at national level that are carrying out this activity. They are young people who, in a continuous growing, are looking for a precise agriculture, but above all give the opportunity to produce genuine food. In the defence of this agriculture we are also looking for the protection of the health of the consumer, which is fundamental. Over the last decade, sales of organic products have grown by more than 122 percent, an important figure; the success of consumption supports the increase in production in our country, as has been said before by colleagues. We are the first European producers and we are the second in the world, but with a product control capacity that only Italy has at European and global level. We must recognise this to our agriculture sector, but above all we must recognise it to our producers, who are struggling and also living a bureaucratic practice which, through this measure, we will try to simplify, not in order to make sure that controls and checks are abandoned, but in order to make it more immediate and faster from the computer point of view. In this context of the industry's full ferment, the draft law under consideration is inserted, which can therefore make an important contribution to the whole of our world. Among the most qualifying points - I would like to remind you - the measure provides for the introduction of a brand for Italian bio, in order to mark as 100 percent made in Italy only organic products obtained from national raw material. In fact, there is - and we must also say this in relation to Italian soiling and to all the counterfeits of the Italian product in the world - a real alarm for the invasion of products from non-EU countries, with an increase in the quantity of product by more than 10% per year and with about one third of products from Asia, where there is a very high control difficulty, as we were able to verify in the hearings held in the Committee on Agriculture. The brand is also an important tool for strengthening the presence of national products on foreign markets. Much has been done by the Ministry of Agriculture for the dissemination and support of these products. I would like to thank the Undersecretary Battistoni for his commitment to the promotion of supply chains, which is very important. [[Applause]] We also look very carefully at innovation, especially in the youth world. In fact, the bill provides for the possibility of creating digital platforms to ensure full information about the origin, quality and traceability of products, with a delegation to the Government - and here the activity of our Ministers and our Subsecretaries returns to the field - to review the legislation on controls and guarantee the autonomy of certification bodies. Important elements are introduced in the law also for the definition and recognition of biodistricts, as well as introducing in our system the forms of representation properly recognized and valued (which was missing today), innovative for the biological, as up to now provided only for other specific sectors. Our wish is to contribute to sustaining with this law a larger system, that of national agro-food, for which new development prospects can be opened up, making it appealing to the younger generations and ensuring that there is a profitability, that today is severely put into crisis in our agriculture by many factors, by the very serious and uncontrolled increase of energy costs and by the increase of raw materials (other fundamental aspect). If anyone paid attention yesterday, he would have noticed that cereal lists have marked frightening increases per tonne of product, as far as national production is concerned. On the other hand, we have the problem of African swine fever, which has not been eradicated at all; on the contrary, we are in the process of discussing this measure. There is also the problem of avian influenza, which involves large territories of our country. Finally, there is the very serious situation of the war, which also involves a blockade of exports to those countries whose purchases up to now have implemented the production phase very much. For all these reasons, President, we, as Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, will vote in favour of the measure and we hope that in the meantime we will be able to give strength and energy to the other measures to help the Italian agricultural and agri-food sector, always in the vision of a consumer attentive especially to its health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u115	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Battistoni, a text approved by the Chamber of Deputies in December 2018, which was amended by the Senate and which was again amended by the Chamber of Deputies at third reading on 9 February, which we adopted earlier, with a vote in favour. The two changes which have just been made relate to Article 1 and Article 21 of the Decree-Law. The amendment to article 1, paragraph 3, has in fact eliminated the explicit equivalence of agriculture with biodynamic method to the biological one, leaving a general possibility of equivalence with the biological method to those forms of agriculture that follow its disciplinary protocols. I thank Senator Taricco for the great work he has done and for the spirit of truth he has put in his intervention and in his precise details, such as those on the Community regulations on biologicals, transposed by ministerial decrees, which since 1991 - therefore for thirty years - allow the use of biodynamic preparations in biological methods. We have accepted the agenda of Senator Cattaneo, because, while further expelling the biodynamic from this legislation, in fact the biodynamic remains in the organic in full title. The second amendment took place on Article 21, extending to the legislative decrees implementing the provisions of the draft law their applicability to the Regions under Special Statute and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. The text as a whole is a reference law for organic farming, invoked for a long time, whose drafting has required many measures, to respond to the many requests received by the operators of the sector. This is a very important issue, because it occupies important places in Europe and in the world, both for cultivated area and for the number of companies operating in the sector. All this happens in a context in which the European Union, with the green new deal and with the Farm to fork, sets itself the objective of achieving, in the coming years, 25% of the area cultivated for organic farming, investing more than EUR 40 million in its promotion, because it revisits in this type of agriculture a tool for the fight against climate change, for the protection and protection of biodiversity and for a more sustainable agriculture. It will do so with an action plan aimed at supporting consumption and increasing production and conversion throughout Europe. All of this is therefore part of a general picture of agricultural and environmental policies, which aims to reduce the use of plant protection products by 50%, the loss of nutrients in soils and by 50% of the use of antimicrobials in animal care. The measure that we are going to approve today defines the concept of organic farming, largely based on Community regulations. It defines the role that the Provinces and the Regions will play, it is expected the establishment of a technical table and the establishment of a brand of organic farming, for a clear message, that generates value and economy, that speaks of respect for nature and health, simplicity, return to authenticity and traditions, attention at every stage of processing. A national action plan is envisaged, both for organic production and for its products, adopted every three years, with the aim of facilitating the conversion to the organic method and supporting the establishment of associative forms, which help agricultural enterprises, including by promoting new settlements and improving their certification and control system. A national plan for organic seed is also envisaged, supporting research, as is the case with all innovative practices. It is essential, for organic farming, that it is not a topic of individual farms, but be extended to the territories: hence the establishment of the biological districts, in order to streamline the certifications, considering them at the level of the territory. The whole issue of the recognition and the discipline of the supply chains is addressed, characterizing them on this type of company. With regard to the important issue of controls, the Government is delegated to revise, harmonise and rationalise the regulations. We have a real framework law in our hands, which we believe will enable the sector to achieve ambitious objectives, to reduce the use of pesticides, to increase the resistance of agricultural crops and soil fertility and, therefore, to greater resilience to climate change that we are experiencing. To work the earth with the biological method means to use a cultivation technique and a way of producing food that respects the natural life cycles. After years of use of chemicals and synthesis, we find ourselves with very little organic substance in the soils and with a worrying presence of residues of plant protection drugs in the waters. Strict production standards are therefore essential, which contribute to respect for the environment, from which product quality derives, as well as animal welfare. The consumer wants to eat healthy and ethically and it is also a value the italianity of the product. The whole world envies our cuisine and the raw materials that grow in our fields, more if they are characterized by guarantee and quality brands to protect the consumer. If there really is a new awareness of the importance of agricultural soil and natural soil, as well as of an environment as a whole unpolluted, it is time to demonstrate this through policies aimed at these purposes. Organic farming is one of the real possibilities we have. For this reason, for the reasons I have explained, I am convinced that the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u116	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u119	Drago (FdI). Mr President, can a company with a turnover of more than $8 billion afford staff cuts? Unfortunately, in Italy it seems so. This is what is happening in Catania, Sicily, and the company concerned is a multinational company known all over the world for the production of anti-Covid vaccines: we talk about Pfizer, in conjunction with BioNTech. On this issue as Brothers of Italy we filed a question last February 15, but an urgent intervention is urgent. On 4 March, workers and local trade unions will make a demonstration asking for clarity, because they have no certainty of the prospects. We are talking about redundancies for 130 permanent workers, 50 temporary figures and 60 other positions from here to August, until a semi-automatic machine is installed that will reduce the necessary staff by at least 50 percent. The seat of Catania is a historical seat, in 1954, which has received praise also from the American multinational Pfizer, it is a seat that has been recognized for the high level of skills of the workers and works in the field of aseptic productions. The strange thing is that on February 7 a communication was delivered to the trade union representatives for a procedure of reduction of the staff, but on February 3, after a long silence during which the disposal of a production compartment was carried out, the company communicated that it would undertake a procedure of reduction of the staff, although having allocated 26 million euros for investments in the site, a quota that would not be sufficient to the adaptations required by the Annex 1, guidelines issued by the regulatory agencies for the production of the drugs. In essence, therefore, this intervention requires an immediate solution, a technical table with the Ministry, in agreement with the Sicilian Region, and possibly also an immediate answer to the question 4-06585 filed on February 15th. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u120	Thank you, Senator Drago, I join your plea for the consequences of the crisis in Pfizer.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u123	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, if there is violence, there can be no love. Love presupposes respect for the identity of the other person, for his freedom, includes joy for the realization of the other. No one can be the object of possession by another person, possession is not love. Announcing for the other is not love. When you do not accept the autonomy of the other person, the relationship becomes asymmetrical and painful. Thus for some subjects rejection, separation from the partner triggers libertic behavior, the result of an archaic culture of men who cannot stand that the woman is realized and emancipated, even that she is happy. Well, in our society, all this happens despite the acquired rights and equal opportunities that the Constitutional Charter guarantees. That is why it is not uncommon for a woman to abandon a man to trigger violence, which sometimes results in feminicide, which is nothing more than the murder of a woman for the mere fact of being a woman, in order to suppress her rights, even her happiness. In December 2021 98 women were killed in family or affective relationships, of which 66 were killed by the partner or former partner. So the killer usually has the keys to the house, but unfortunately the cases of domestic violence are not always able to intercept in time, although generally the feminicide is only the conclusion of an escalation that starts with minor crimes such as family abuse, stalking, threats, injuries. This is what happened last week in Sardinia, in Porto Torres, where a Ploaghe mason killed by blows of acceptance the father-in-law, a former policeman, and seriously wounded his wife and mother-in-law under the eyes of twins. In this case, it was a double attempted murder. Let us remember, Mr President, that the recent reform of Cartabia has taken place on this point, filling a deep gap in the code of red. Article 2 complements the provisions to protect victims of domestic and gender-based violence by extending their scope to victims of these crimes in attempted form and victims of attempted murder. In particular, the scope of some provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure to protect victims, which is currently limited to some criminal cases (family mistreatment, aggravated and group sexual violence, sexual acts with minors, corruption of minors, persecutors, personal injury), has been extended to victims of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u124	Senator, your time is up. Finish your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u125	Evangelist (IV-PSI). ...delights of domestic violence in attempted form and victims of attempted murder, to which the provisions of Law No 69 of 2019 will apply with the novels introduced. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u128	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to an issue that directly affects the Campania Region and precisely the locality of Persano, in the Municipality of Serre, in the province of Salerno, and that reflects its effects on the credibility of our country in international relations, but above all on the environmental impact of bad choices. This is the story of 7,900 tons of waste that Tunisia sent back to the sender after claiming that from Italy had left more than two hundred containers containing undifferentiated waste mixed with hospital waste. As a result of the alleged unlawful behaviour of Italian companies that have treated and shipped waste from Italy to Tunisia, the Tunisian authorities have opened investigations following which the Campania Region has entered into an agreement for the return of waste to Italy. Since February 22, these dubious wastes station in the port of Salerno and the risk of an environmental disaster in Campania is once again around the corner. Environmental associations have tried in every way possible to stop the repatriation of these wastes of dubious origin, but unfortunately the worst was not in any way averted, despite the seals of the containers appeared tampered with and there was no certainty about their content. To complete the picture already dramatic itself is the choice of the final destination of these container, that will be transferred to locality Persano, in the Municipality of Serre, in the province of Salerno, in view of their start to disposal and recovery near ulterior destinations. The site in question is located within a naturalistic area of high environmental value, the WWF oasis of Persano in Salerno, so-called wetland of national importance characterized by the presence of uncontaminated natural environments. Once again, paying the costs of negligence will be territories of high geological value. The Sele plain and the Campania Region are unfortunately not new to such disasters. That is why today I am forced to appeal to all the institutions involved, so that this territory can be protected when possible from inestimable environmental damage that will see as blameless victims the new generations and the environmental heritage of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u131	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, I shall be very brief. Mine is a very important complaint concerning ASL in Rome 3 and basically involves children and their families. ASL Roma 3 includes a very vast territory, which is that of the X Town Hall of Rome Capital, XI, XII and also the Municipality of Fiumicino: we are talking about a very, very vast basin. At ASL Roma 3 there is a serious shortage of childhood neuropsychiatris, evolutionary age psychologists, social workers and speech therapists, with serious repercussions not only on families but also on teachers. These figures are also essential for achieving school inclusion. On the other hand, it appears that the current staff of ASL Roma 3 is considerably undersized and in no way, if not limited to, can guarantee the service of mental health protection and rehabilitation of the evolutionary age. Following, therefore, the solicitations of the committee, which I thank, promoter of the service of child neuropsychiatry of ASL Roma 3 and the Groups of the Movimento 5 Stars of the X, XI and XII City Hall and of the Municipality of Fiumicino, ASL Roma 3 recently represented having started a process of research of personnel. We, at national level, know that, with the decree support- bis we have allocated about 20 million for the strengthening of territorial and hospital services of childhood neuropsychiatry and adolescence, also providing for the derogation to the assumptions limits. I am now promoting myself, together with my Roman colleagues, to ask the Lazio Region for help, so that it supports this ASL, which, by mistake perhaps, is late. This is very important, to help not one family, not two, but hundreds of families and their children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u134	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, I bring to the attention of this House one of the many cases of abuse of the power of a magistrate. Dr. Antonia Giammaria, public prosecutor of Rome, former deputy chief cabinet of the former minister Calenda, who would have had the duty to behave with impartiality, correctness, diligence, hard work, reserve and balance in the performance of his role, on the contrary, as can be read also in the recourse to the TAR of Lazio del Codacons and contextual request for fair reparation to the prosecutor of the Court of Appeal, seems to have played his role in an arbitrary way. For submitting a question, on July 17, 2018, on the appointment of Dr. Capecchi to Director Agcom, I received a warranty notice, for crime referred to in Article 595 of the Criminal Code, signed on September 11, 2018 by Dr. Giammaria. Called on September 25, 2018 by an official officer of the Finance Guard, who worked at Agcom itself, of which Dr. Capecchi was general manager, in the presence of my lawyer, Francesco Strigari, I reiterated that the act of inspection union was part of the prerogatives referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution. Criminal proceedings were therefore to be closed within a reasonable period of time. Nevertheless, the Giammaria prosecutor asked for an extension of the investigation. On 20 July 2021, almost two years after the expiry of the extension, the lawyer Strigari submitted a request for a reminder, asking Giammira to promote to the gip the request to dismiss for non-susistence of crime and for the unindicability of the opinions expressed pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution. Right of criticism and doubts were evident from the curriculum, written by the Capecchi himself and published on the net. Public interest of Italian citizens and continence: the forms I used in that question were calm and clear, the tones never offensive nor scurril. On 30 July 2021 he repeated his second request for a reminder; on 26 October the third request. Only on October 17 the public prosecutor Giammaria finally asks that the gip want to arrange the filing of the procedure, after having observed that, from the examination of the acts, no elements have emerged that allow to configure the hypothesis of ascribed crime and that no other elements of sufficient investigative cue have been indicated. It follows that, for the above considerations, a request for storage must be made. The following day, on 18 October, then 3 years and one month after the notice of guarantee, the judge for preliminary investigations, Patrone, read the request for filing filed by the prosecutor, considered that the justification of the request is fully acceptable, in the light of the documents submitted arranges the filing. Mr President, I have always had great respect for the judiciary, but abuses such as those described by a prosecutor who believes that he can keep a citizen, although a senator, hanging for 37 months under the sword of Damocles of a non-existent crime, deserve to be severely sanctioned by a CSM, whose grave scandal dishonours the entire judiciary, irreparably undermining the residual confidence in justice. I hope that from now on the prosecutors, when calling for Article 68 of the Constitution, will not hold the senators and Members hanging under that sword of Damocles for three years.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-411.ana.u136	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 9 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is adjourned (17.41 a.m.).
