ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for the Interior will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Faraone has the right to explain Question 3-03194 on budgetary measures to support the competitiveness of enterprises in the current economic situation, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u4	Mr President, Minister, the subject of our question concerns the economic situation in our country. Two years after the beginning of the pandemic, with the consequent health and economic crisis, the Russian-Ukrainian war has unfortunately been added, which is causing the strong risk of a global recession in the Continent; in our country, which has a more fragile economy and a greater dependence on Russian gas, this risk of recession is however much stronger. The surge in energy and gas prices are having a major impact on companies, which are now in great difficulty in maintaining their production capacity and in coping with the payment of expenditure on utilities. There are also repercussions on households and workers; prices are rising, but wages are still the same. The extra cost estimated for Italian companies in 2022, due only to the increase in electricity prices amounts to almost 36 billion. We must intervene and we must do so urgently. This evolution of the energy scenario, according to the calculations carried out by the Confindustria Study Centre, entails an increase in costs for the Italian manufacturing industry for the supply of energy, ranging from around 8 billion euros in 2019 to over 20 billion euros in 2021 and over 37 in 2022, i.e. an increase in the total cost of 350 percent in 2021 and 650 percent compared to the costs of 2020. So businesses can never stand up to it. According to Unioncamere-BMTI's balance sheet on the evolution of tariffs paid in the last year by Italian small and medium-sized enterprises of 13 January 2022, it also emerges that the increase in international natural gas prices is heavily weighed, due to the market imbalances between the increase in global gas demand and supply rigidities. Given that the government's 2022 growth estimates have decreased by around 3% compared to 4.7 percent, we would like to understand what actions the government will put in place. The latter has already intervened and is intervening, but if we do not act urgently, the risks for the future will be great.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u5	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Franco, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u6	Mr President, the Government is aware of the inflationary impact of the sudden rise in the prices of certain raw materials, including energy, also following the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine. In order to contain energy costs, the Government has intervened several times since last summer, last with the so-called energy decree of 21 March, which has allocated 2.7 billion to reduce excise duties on fuels and support the liquidity of the companies most affected by the increase in the price of gas and electricity. To these ulterior resources in favor of the hauliers for approximately 560 million. These resources are in addition to those provided for in previous legislative measures of around 16 billion. Overall, the measures introduced so far exceed 19 billion, of which some 14 are allocated to the first two quarters of the current year. The Government's energy plan also plans to reduce the Italian dependence by diversifying in the shortest possible time the sources of supply in compliance with the commitments in the matter of decarbonization. This plan is fully consistent with that launched by the European Commission to reduce the European Union's dependence on Russian gas supplies before 2030. In the Stability Programme 2022, the macroeconomic and public finance framework will be developed and risk factors linked to the ongoing war will be considered. The extension of the application of the general safeguard clause currently planned to expire at the end of this year is being considered very carefully at European level. As regards the question of possible further business measures, the Government is considering the new temporary framework on State aid adopted yesterday by the European Commission to support the economy in the context of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In this act, interventions in favour of companies for liquidity needs and compensatory measures for energy costs are provided, within certain limits and conditions, which appear in line with the interventions put in place by the Italian Government with the recent decree-laws. In addition, particularly in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly favourable conditions remain for the granting of public guarantees on loans. For liquidity needs determined by the increase in energy costs, guarantees shall be free until 30 June 2022. The update of the macroeconomic forecasts of public finance will allow an in-depth assessment of the need for further business support measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u7	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u8	Mr President, I am pleased with the Government's response. The immediate action by the Government itself in relation to the energy crisis, the daughter of this war, was certainly important. Of course, the measures we have taken are not enough. We will have to take more to avoid the recession, a word that seemed so distant from the current language of the last period. These measures will also have to be taken to maintain the consensus that the Government enjoys at this time, for the positive action it is taking in relation to the international crisis in place and also to economic measures and the management of the pandemic. Consensus means avoiding the further growth of new nationalist pulsations, of euroscepticism which would lead to the disintegration of a value that we have instead found, namely European unity. So the two days and the measures that will be taken by the Government later in Europe will be absolutely decisive in order to maintain the necessary consensus to create the conditions for Italians to have the answers they deserve.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u9	Senator De Bertoldi has the right to explain the question 3-03191 on the introduction of tax credits to support companies as a result of the increase in energy costs for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, Brothers of Italy draw the attention of the Draghi Government and the Minister to a topic of great importance: our businesses and our citizens are broken by the pandemic, the energy crisis and the international crisis. They need immediate answers and not further problems. So, Minister, with regard to energy, the tax credits that have also been provided for in the recent Ukraine decree, for companies that need energy and gas, are certainly acceptable. But, Minister, we are calling for an improvement, both in terms of the percentage of intervention and the duration of this intervention and of greater accessibility to the measure. But above all, Minister, we are talking about a very serious issue which, at this moment, is in danger of really blowing up - as they say - many Italian companies. I am talking about the issue of limiting the transfer of tax credits. This theme today brings together the credits of building bonuses, the credits of the superbonus 110% and the tax credits recognised for the energy crisis. This limitation, Minister - believe me - does not help to reduce fraud and is penalising the whole of our country. It penalises citizens, who today are unable to move forward, to see their work finished and who often have credits in their belly that they can no longer give up because no one buys more. They penalise companies, which are no longer able to find banks that buy credit from them, because of restrictions on the circulation of credit. So we're facing a risk of failure. Minister, I have almost finished, but I really do ask you and the Government to speak on these issues immediately. I repeat loudly that, when there is credit traceability, the identification of the credit and a financial platform on which they run, to which are added the visas of conformity of the professionals, at that point it makes no sense to provide limitations to the transfer of the credit. We really hope, Minister, with strong energy on your part, to change the path that has led, is leading and will bring - alas - serious problems to our country. We do not want to restrict the sale of credits, but we obviously ask for checks for all bonuses, as evidenced by the fact that in the superbonus 110% there were no frauds. With those checks in the superbonus 110%, there will be no fraud in the other building bonuses or even in the energy tax credits. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Franco, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to point out that by Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March 2022, the preferential measures aimed at covering the higher charges resulting from the increase in energy prices have been reinforced precisely by means of tax credits. In particular, Article 3 provided for a contribution, in the form of a tax credit, to undertakings for the purchase of electricity, equal to 12% of the expenditure incurred in the second quarter of 2022. Article 4 provides for the provision of a contribution to companies for the purchase of natural gas, equivalent to 20% of the expenditure incurred in the second quarter of 2022. Article 5 has increased the tax credits for energy-intensive companies and companies with a high consumption of natural gas to 25% and 20% respectively, instead of 20% and 15% previously foreseen. Article 18 provided for a contribution, still in the form of a tax credit, for the purchase of fuels for the exercise of agricultural and fisheries activities, equal to 20% of the expenditure incurred in the first quarter of 2022. The above tax credits can be used by the recipient undertakings for payment by way of compensation for the taxes and contributions due by them; in particular, they may be used, inter alia, for the payment of the withholding tax which those persons act as substitutes for VAT, income tax, Irap, social security contributions and INAIL premiums. In addition to the direct use which, taking into account the variety and extent of the countervailable payments, is likely to be prevalent, it has been envisaged that the beneficiary companies will be able to dispose of the so-called tax credits. Beyond the first sale, it is expected that two further transfers will be made to credit institutions and other financial intermediaries. This discipline on the eligibility of claims meets two objectives: on the one hand, to ensure the full exercise of the powers granted to taxpayers benefiting from tax concessions; on the other hand, to implement an effective anti-fraud control, preventing transfers of credit by persons who are not entitled to the credit. In fact, it is recalled that, in the context of the disposals of building bonuses, significant phenomena of fraud have been found. There was therefore an intervention to safeguard the erial interests which would not be adequately protected by admitting the right to dispose of claims without limitation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Bertoldi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u12	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, I must declare the absolute dissatisfaction with an answer that I feared, but that I hoped could change. There is no objective reason - and I say this again, Minister - to persevere in error. You are persevering - and you are doing this in front of 60 million Italians - in the error of predicting limitations to the sale of the credit, which are of no use, because in the superbonus 110% fraud is practically reduced to zero. At a time when there is a visa of conformity, where the professionals who apply it are insured and therefore liable to the State, there is no risk of fraud. The limits to the sale of credits lead to a single result, Minister: to paralyse the market. Today the ceiling is sold out. Poste buys only from private individuals and the main national banks have exhausted the tax capacity and do not buy. I'm asking you to really think. For the good of the Italians, put an end to the absurd limitation in the transfer of tax credits. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u13	Senator Lupo has the right to explain the question 3-03189 on the transfer of the participation of the Ministry of Economy in the airline ITA Airways, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that Minister Franco has come to this House to report on the national carrier ITA Airways, of which the Ministry of Transport owns the property. In recent months we have asked several times to be able to listen to you, Minister, also for further clarification, nothing more, about the negotiation conducted in Europe to get to the new flag company. I'm limited to a very short history, given the times. With the decree-law so-called care Italy has been authorized the formation of a new company entirely controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the exercise of the business activity in the field of the air transport of people and goods; the scheme of industrial plan 2021-2025 of this company has been submitted to the opinion of the parliamentary committees of merit. Approved the plan by the board of directors of the new ITA Airways company, the same was transmitted also to the 8a Permanent Senate Commission which gave a favourable opinion, with technical and substantive comments. Subsequently, on 15 July 2021, the European Commission sent the Italian institutions a letter in which it positively assessed the ITA Airways industrial plan, as amended - and I would say re-modified - following the interlocations between the Ministry's technicians and the EU. So the plan has been approved, yes, taking into account the changes requested by the Commission, which are not formally, officially and in detail known to this Parliament. Finally, on 11 February 2022, the Council of Ministers presented the draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers initiating the process of alienation of the participation of the Ministry of Economy and Finance by ITA Airways. And the same measure, now published in the Official Journal, provides that in a first phase the Ministry maintains a minority quota and not control of ITA Airways. Subsequently, all shares in ITA could be disposed of. We learn from press sources that there would be proposals on the ground. However, considering that the constitution of ITA and the contribution of capital by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to the same ITA have been deliberated by the Parliament, that it is national company and the same Parliament has considered to contribute to save this company or in any case to start the new society, we ask ourselves what is the strategic vision of the Ministry and our Government regarding this carrier, that it is a strategic asset for our Country. So, we ask you to know what your visions are, as well as of course officializing that you will most likely want to resign as shares. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u15	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Franco, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u16	Mr President, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers governing the alienation of ITA was adopted on 11 February. Following the registration of the Court of Auditors and the publication in the Official Journal, on March 3, the Ministry transmitted the DPCM to the ITA summits and initiated the procedure for selecting financial and legal advisors, which ended on March 17. The DPCM authorizes the MEF to dispose of a majority holding defined not in quantitative terms but in result terms (the remaining holding must not be controlling); to do so by means of a public offer of sale or private negotiation; to dispose of the remaining minority holding at a later stage of which the time horizon is not defined. The DPCM states that alienation arrangements must ensure the stability of ownership, the industrial dimension of integration, the exploitation of national hubs, the development of long-range strategic markets and employment prospects. It states that, in the event of private negotiation, procedures must be competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory. It provides for appropriate governance arrangements to be established in order to maintain minority participation. The DCCM, therefore, emphasizes three essential aspects for ITA: the industrial dimension (similar to a solid and profitable company); the prospects of growth of the society (the access to strategic markets and long-range operations are considered crucial); the employment (the growth of ITA must result in the development of quality and sustainable employment). The MEF manages the four-step sales process, which represents market practice. The first step is to identify the most effective method of alienation in order to enhance the participation of the State and the objectives set in the DPCM. The second is as follows: in the case of private negotiation, conduct a market investigation to verify the existence of interested operators and investors and call for expression of interest. The third phase is the opening of the date room at ITA, due diligence by the parties concerned and the receipt of binding offers, including industrial plans; the fourth: analysis of the offers and choice of the counterparty with which to start the exclusive negotiations, conduct the negotiation and, after carrying out the necessary obligations with the supervisory authority, signature of the contract of sale and of the governance agreements. The start-up and progressive strengthening of ITA's activity, together with the presence of several parties apparently interested in its purchase, should ensure the success of the transaction. The MEF will keep Parliament constantly informed. We are fully prepared, at political and technical level, to be audited in relation to the disposal process now under way, when Parliament considers it appropriate. Of course, strict compliance with the rules governing the proper functioning of the markets will have to be ensured. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the power to respond to Senator Wolf for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u17	Minister, thank you for doing the chronicle yourself, as I did in the preamble. To me what interested to know, honestly, is not the technical part related to how the beginning of this path was formed, but the strategic vision that the Country has of the carrier. And when I talk about strategic vision, I see it at 360 degrees. Strategic vision means understanding whether we are going to consolidate the market and whether we are talking about commercial alliances, rather than structural, trying to give space to our flag carrier. To say that we do long-range traits, without thinking about a consolidation of the market, I think it's a bit difficult. To consolidate, we need to make a strategic and commercial alliance with other scheduled carriers and, of course, to do this, we need to eliminate the technical part and go deeper into the functioning of the market. The past of the flag company is indeed very particular, also because of the politics, but above all, unfortunately, because of the wrong strategic choices. That is why, Minister, since we have requested your intervention in the Commission, I would ask you to come to the Commission for a hearing. He'd be very kind to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u18	Senator D'Arienzo has the right to explain the question 3-03192 on the recent neo-fascist demonstrations and re-enactments, particularly in the city of Verona, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u19	Mrs Minister, on several occasions - as many know - Verona has been the scene of various initiatives and political demonstrations and aggressions, both of a Nazi-fascist nature, such as to make the city appear as the political hub of this type of organization. In reality Verona, which is a gold medal at the value of the Resistance, is not a fascist city - as is simplistically repeated - but is dragged into the chronicles of this nature by some, few subjects, among which I personally always distinguish the minds from the arms, a bit like it happens everywhere and as happened also in the case of the aggression at the national headquarters of the CGIL. In fact, they are both dangerous to democracy. In Verona, the Forces of Order were attacked on October 28, 2020, during a demonstration that had to do with the pandemic. The dangerous activism of these organisations, which is likely to be evaluated by the institutions and local authorities, makes it possible to create the conviction of the legitimacy of these behaviours, while creating conditions that can be repeated in other realities. I therefore believe it is dangerous to believe that the phenomenon is limited only to the city of Verona, because political welds in the extreme right across the national territory are objective, in addition to the contagion that these serious demonstrations can cause around the country. Of course, you have prevention and repression tasks, but we need a cultural commitment that cannot be asked of the Minister of the Interior and even less of the Forces of the Order. With regard to its competences, however, the request is to understand and know what initiatives are in the field to ensure an effective contrast against this dangerous snare, in order to prevent the repetition of episodes of violence that also challenge the lives of people and to counter these commemorative initiatives, fully respecting the values of our Constitution born from the Resistance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u20	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to say that, with regard to the disturbances that occurred in 2020, which involved people close to CasaPound, Forza Nuova, as well as supporters of the Hellas Verona, the development of the investigations, which are still underway, has allowed the referral of 15 subjects, including some minors, for serious crimes such as devastation, resistance and violence to the public official, personal injuries aggravated. Coming now to the most recent facts about the aggression that took place on February 8 in the Veronetta district by some militants of CasaPound-Student Block to the detriment of two people, the investigative activities have so far led to the denunciation of seven activists of the movement, three of them for crimes of aggravated injury, private violence and threat in competition. As for the event held last February 10 on the occasion of the "Day of remembrance," I point out that this is an initiative organized by a partnership that has officially become a cultural association since the 1990s, with its own statute regularly deposited and registered. During this event, which is always forewarned, which takes place every 10 February from the 2000s, no particular episodes of disorder and public safety occurred. It should be pointed out, however, that beyond the episodes evoked by the questioning parliamentarians, the network of Digos follows with particular and constant attention the activity of groups and members of the radical right. In this sense it should be noted that, in the province of Verona, March 4 was subjected to the measure of prevention of the special surveillance of public security for a year a well-known leader of the local movement Forza Nuova. Moreover, last March 8 in the same province were carried out searches against 23 militants of CasaPound, of which two minors responsible for a violent attack committed recently in damage of five minors attributable to the so-called baby gangs. Right-wing extremists have been referred to for crimes of multiple injuries and aggravated private violence. I would refer that in order to prevent further criticalities in terms of order and public security, specific wide-ranging control services on the territory, as well as monitoring of Internet sites and social networks, have been planned in the provincial committee for public order and security, with the aim of promptly intercepting signals of possible violent conduct and ensuring the strictest compliance with the provisions of the Mancino law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Arienzo has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u22	Thank you, Mrs Minister, for your answer to the question that the State is present, and that is the most important thing. I repeat that it is simplistic to reduce the activism of the extreme right in particular in a city, because the contagion unfortunately concerns the entire country, but the State must do everything to prevent the rooting, proselytism and every form of public expression, because it is not democratic to guarantee voice to those who incite violence and to those who call to criminals who have brought crematoria ovens and racial laws This is not democracy. I therefore believe that it is not only necessary to be alarmed when a banner appears, which is the external evidence: in our country and not only in the city of Verona, much happens under trace, therefore the contrast to the fascist culture and its diffusion is obtained also with the constant presence of the republican institutions. I would therefore ask you to consider, Madam Minister, in the presence of a further and possible serious fact also of your presence within the provincial committee for public order and security.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u23	Senator De Falco has the right to explain the question 3-02978 on the procedures for visits to detention centres for return for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his presence. With some Members of Parliament, both senators and Members, we are beginning to make sense of this parliamentary mandate, which otherwise, because of the overwhelming preponderance of the Government towards Parliament, would make little sense. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to make it clear why I am going to explain this. His Ministry is responsible for the chain of command that then controls the managers of the detention centers for return (CPR), that is those places of detention without law that we also have in Italy, in analogy with what happens in the so vituperata Libya. For these places, among other things, the law is very clear, and I make the following normative reference: Article 67 of Law No 345 of 1975 on penitentiary law (which also applies to these centres, according to Article 19 of Decree-Law No 13 of 2017), indicates among those who can visit prisons without the need for authorization, Minister, and therefore without any authorization procedure also the members of this Parliament. Well, this full subjective right, as defined by the TAR of Sicily, extends, always by law (according to the second paragraph of the aforementioned article 67), to all those who, at the choice of the parliamentarians - and not of the police station, nor of the prefecture, as Dr. Plantadosis would think - accompany him, assisting him in the fulfillment of the inspection mandate. On April 24, 2021 I entered the CPR in Rome, contacting the prefect, Dr. Plantadosis, who, after the communication - because this is necessary - let me in. Later, however, for another three times - perhaps as a result of the inspection report and perhaps, I must think, as a result of some malaise in his administration - he prohibited me and my companions from entering, assuming that they were not my parliamentary collaborators. What's that got to do with anything? The companion chooses me - the MP chooses him - and in the law there is no area of discretion for the Administration of the interior in this field. So I ask you briefly, given that there is very little time, why your administration pervicaciously insists on violating the law. Why? On the basis of which provisions? I also spoke to your chief of staff, Dr. Frattase. [[Call the president back.]] Finally, Mr President, I want and we want to understand, as Members of Parliament, how your Ministry is allowed to break the law repeatedly and repeatedly. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u25	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u26	Following the extension to the CPRs of the discipline dictated to the prison institutions by the law referred to by the honourable Member, CPRs, in addition to parliamentarians, can also access those who accompany them by reason of their office. They also have the same principle that no prior administrative authorisation is required. In view of the evident affinity of the situations involving access and the underlying requirements of security and protection of confidentiality, the modalities established for prison institutions by the circular of the Ministry of Justice, Department of Penitentiary Administration, of 7 November 2013 are also applicable for CPRs. According to this circular, it is necessary for the companions to adopt the existence of a stable and continuous professional collaboration with the parliamentarians, not being sufficient to supplement this form of relationship any episodic collaboration. For this purpose, the circular provides that, before the access begins, must be collected, using a special form, the written attestations with which the interested parties specify under their responsibility which is the relationship between them and the collaborator. In the repeated interlocutions between Senator De Falco and various representatives of the Interior Administration on the afternoon of 4 December, it was clearly stated that the provisions contained in the circular of the Ministry of Justice should be applied, even in the part where they provide that the parliamentarians present the attestation of which we have said. It was made available to Senator De Falco, by the staff of the police station at the CPR of Ponte Galeria, the form in which the parliamentarians should, in application of the forecasts, declare the type of qualified relationship existing with the persons accompanying him. Senator De Falco, after initially refusing to submit the form, later agreed to the request, however producing a statement in which the persons who should have followed him in the access were generically indicated as accompanying persons, without any other specification regarding the relationship with them. The prefecture of Rome, therefore, did not authorize the entry of the companions. Senator De Falco asked that he be given a statement of the reasons for the refusal of entry, which was the responsibility of the police officer present on the spot. I conclude by pointing out that from the development of the facts it is not possible to recognize any form of impediment or limitation to the full exercise of the parliamentary prerogatives always recognized, having always been guaranteed to Senator De Falco the possibility to access the CPR in the ways that I have just illustrated.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u27	I give the floor to Senator De Falco to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u28	Mr President, things have not gone as the Minister says. It is true, in fact, that there is this circular that you are talking about, but in the meantime a circular that restricts the right-duty of the parliamentarians established by primary law is aberrant. A circular could establish the methods, modalities, but cannot constitute a procedure, where the rule excludes that there may be any kind of prior authorisation. This is also stated by the TAR of Sicily. The administration has no right to discriminate in any way. Moreover, in the circumstances of December 4, after nine hours of waiting (if I am not mistaken), I signed everything I was told. Dr. Plantadosis asked me a statement of my own hand that I made; he also asked that the companions write on the form to which he refers; they did so by specifying that they were companions pursuant to Article 67 of the Law on the Penitentiary Order. What more do you want? Do you want us to warn you to do the inspections? What more do you want? Do you want to prevent the congressman from doing that, too? Do you want to delete, close every area after the legislative one? That's crazy. You're wrong. You cannot conculcate the right-duty of the parliamentarians. You can't do that. We'll move on, we'll go to the courts, Madam Minister. You will lose, because you are the government, not the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u29	Senator Dal Mas has the right to explain question 3-03190 on measures to manage the influx of refugees from Ukraine for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, the purpose of the question is to deepen the issues relating to the dramatic events of these days, which see our country engaged in an absolutely acceptable way, from my point of view, in an exemplary effort of widespread reception of the approximately 60,000 (or perhaps more) refugees currently coming from Ukraine, considering that there are more than 4 million people on the move from that country. It is a particular and temporary immigration, made up of people who are fleeing the war. Within these figures, there is a very important and significant figure relating to the presence of minors and women. In fact, there are unaccompanied minors and we will ask for the due attention also to support the effort that the municipalities will have to face for their subsistence and their acceptance. There are also issues related to health needs, as we are talking about children who do not, in fact, have a traditional vaccine type coverage like ours and not just compared to the Covid. Therefore, they are potentially exposed children who expose the host community to risk situations. My question therefore also concerns these aspects. I finish the exhibition with a last reference to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which is the border region, most exposed, at this time, to the arrival and transit of Ukrainians and which has coordination functions. In a while, with good weather, there will be the risk of increasing the flow from the Balkan route and we do not want these situations to cross. I would also ask you, Minister, if you have any forecasts of this and are making assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u31	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the first sensitive issue concerning minors, I would like to remind you of the immediate adoption of a civil protection order with which it was identified in the figure of the head of the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration of the Ministry of the Interior, the Commissioner responsible for coordinating measures for the reception and assistance of unaccompanied foreign minors from Ukraine. One of the most felt needs is to obtain a complete census of the phenomenon, especially by increasing border controls, so that the danger of shadow zones that favour criminal interests and trafficking is neutralized. In this respect, I can say that all children crossing the border are identified and that the possibility of children entering Italy at school age has also been guaranteed to have access to school activities. This morning, following a discussion with the President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, Minister Gelmini, Minister of Education and Commissioner Curcio, it emerged that there are more than 5,000 Ukrainian children who have already had first contact with our educational institutions and for whom a first form of integration and integration has been created in our country. Currently, 277 minors are included in the reception circuit, of which 192 are from families authorized by the court for minors and 82 from structures authorized by that court. As regards health concerns, already by order No 873 of early March, the head of the Civil Protection Department has laid down provisions on anti-Covid prophylaxis and vaccinations also for other diseases and trust isolation of Ukrainian refugees. In Decree-Law No 21, which has just been adopted, the allocation of financial resources to be allocated to the regions for health services to which Ukrainian refugees will access as soon as, with the release of temporary protection, they are enrolled in the National Health Service. The same decree also provided for extraordinary forms of support for the reception of displaced persons, activating and enhancing in subsidiarity the contribution of Regions, municipalities and third sector. In relation to the risk of misuse of resources feared by interrogators, all the procedures provided for in the regulatory and emergency framework are being implemented in order to combine the need for speed and flexibility in the preparation of structures with the maintenance of levels of control to prevent the risk of diversion of appropriations to non-allowed destinations. By way of example, with regard to the reception and integration system, the Civil Protection Order No 872 of 4 March authorised local authorities to activate reception places in derogation from certain rules of the sector but, in any case, without prejudice to the principles of economicity, effectiveness, correctness and transparency, as well as the provisions of the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws and Prevention Measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u33	Senator Dal Mas may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u34	To listen to her, I should declare myself satisfied. Obviously, it would be a reason for the country's satisfaction if everything worked as well as we hope and this crisis resolved quickly and soon. Unfortunately, there are difficulties and concerns, Madam Minister, are well founded. The Italian citizen is faced with daily emergencies such as expensive bills and has difficulty in paying the costs of energy, light and gas and is now also facing this new problem. I would add that in my opinion it is right that this should be so, because I am a convinced supporter of this argument, namely that the country we are talking about, Ukraine, has been attacked by Russia and I believe that it is our duty to defend the freedom and the principle of self-determination of peoples. In the face of this, however, I ask and hope that the Government will have the awareness and certainty that there are situations in which we must act quickly and quickly. Friuli-Venezia Giulia is today a transit region for this route - we hope temporary - for the Ukrainians and is bearing a difficult weight. We therefore ask you for special support and we would like to know whether, within the 450 million of the last decree for Ukraine, you have provided for a distribution of resources in relation to the different burden on the different regions, with reference to the demand that is being made at the moment. I am referring in particular to Friuli, but to a different extent also to Lombardy or Sicily. There are different situations and needs and I ask you and I will ask you to deepen this issue, because frankly we have not yet understood exactly the distribution of these resources from the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u35	Senator Zuliani has the right to explain the question 3-03193 on the criteria for allocating funds for the development of disadvantaged areas between municipalities for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u36	Minister Lamorgese, it is noted in the premise that Article 28 of the Decree-Law of 1 March 2022, n. 17, introducing urgent measures for the containment of the costs of electricity and natural gas, for the development of renewable energies, for the relaunch of industrial policies, the so-called decree energy, in conversion to the Chamber of Deputies, allocates additional 905 million euros total, additional compared to the 3.3 billion euros already allocated to allow the sliding of the ranking of the eligible and unfunded works of that decree of the Ministry of the Interior of 30 December 2021, relating to contributions destined to the municipalities with population over 15,000 inhabitants for investments of urban regeneration referred to in Article 1, paragraph 42 of the law 27 December 2019, n. 160, merged in the Mission 5-Inclusion and Cohesion, Component 2-Social Infrastructures, families, community and third sector, Investment 2.1 - Investment in urban regeneration projects aimed at reducing marginalisation and social degradation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. This additional intervention was also necessary, especially in the light of the introduction of the parameters for the division of the social and material vulnerability index (IVSM), whose specific weight has led to the exclusion from the ranking of numerous municipalities in the North. The Law of 30 December 2021, n. 234, budget law for 2022, established, in article 1, paragraph 581, a fund with a budget of 50 million euros, intended for municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, that have suffered a reduction of more than 5 percent of the population compared to 2011, that have an average income per capita of more than 3,000 euros less than the national average, and that have the IVSM above the national average. The implementing decree has not yet been published, but, in the projections developed by the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), it is evident that even in this case the Municipalities located in the North Regions are severely damaged by this criterion of allotment: only 2.7 percent of the Municipalities of the North Regions would have access to this fund, for the 0.7% of the funds allocated. Given that, in the awareness of the importance of support for the development of economically disadvantaged territorial areas, it is also considered as important, also and especially in the light of the serious economic crisis of the last two years, and that, from the international crisis, it is assumed that it will continue for a not very short period, to develop a policy of more equitable redistribution of state contributions to local authorities, in order to support their development throughout the national territory. The question therefore arises as to whether the Minister does not consider it appropriate to take prompt action on the definition of the criteria for allocating resources to local authorities, taking seriously account of the objective of territorial cohesion while respecting a fair distribution of resources, in order to avoid the repetition of situations of disparity as happened in the case of the allocation of resources relating to urban regeneration projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u37	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u38	Mr President, the issue raised by the questioners has already been the subject of a first refinancing operation. In fact, Decree-Law No. 17 of March 1 has significantly increased the financial resources for about one billion euros, allowing the sliding of the ranking and the financing of all the projects submitted by the municipalities and considered eligible. As is widely known, the criteria for selecting urban regeneration projects have been defined in implementation of Article 1, paragraph 581, of Law No 234 of 2021, the budget law for 2022, including the one mentioned by honourable interrogators referring to the social and material vulnerability index (IVSM), as defined by Istat. A possible change could therefore only be made with a similar regulatory instrument. This is a criterion that the legislator has identified because of the objective need to recognise a preference for the most disadvantaged local realities, in line with the aim of legislative intervention, which has also been assessed as meeting the strategic objectives of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). Therefore, on the basis of this normative data, by decree of the Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Department for Regional Affairs and the autonomous ones, of imminent refinement, will be financed additional 541 works previously remained excluded due to incapience of the funds. I inform you that the municipalities that will benefit from the sliding of the ranking, because of the provisions just mentioned, are altogether 169, of which 146 of the North, 14 of the South and the Islands and 9 of the Central Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u39	Senator Zuliani has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am partially satisfied. The Minister has explained to us that a legislative intervention would be needed to legislate in this respect and to guarantee an allocation on the part to 40-60 percent. We believe it is necessary to continue with this legislative intervention because, given the hand - of ANCI Lombardia, not of the League - it is clear that, beyond the municipalities that are financed and of which the Minister has spoken, we would not respect the 40% South and 60% North part but not because we have something against the territories of the South, because that is not the case, but because, for example, even at a recent hearing of Minister Bianchi, Senator Candiani, who is a signatory to the question, rightly said that there is a risk of creating social tensions that are absolutely unnecessary at this time. We remember in fact that while for Molise are given 6 euros per capita per inhabitant, in the Lombardy Region 4 thousandths per inhabitant, 6 thousandths in Veneto and 12 in Emilia Romagna and Piedmont. We call on the Government to commit itself to an automatism that will ensure that this part is respected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u41	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u44	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, imagine cars whizzing through the dusty curves and hairpins of the Madonie at the stratospheric, for the times, speeds of 50 kilometres per hour. Extraordinary was to be the feeling that the inhabitants and the audience felt witnessing the first Florio Targa on the edge of those roads that saw passing, in 1906, only mules, carts and perhaps some carriages. That of speed was precisely the dream of Vincenzo Florio, who together with his family had imagined to launch Sicily towards the future. It had really done so not only through the sporting events that celebrated the new century - the Targa Florio, the plane tour of Sicily and the sailing regattas - but above all thanks to the momentum that between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries the Florio family gave to the entrepreneurship linked to the naval trade, the fishing, the transformation of tuna, the production of wine and, not least, also thanks to the cultural patronage of the same Florio family that gave to Sicily jewels of art Liberty: one among all Villa Igia. Patronage that even came to finance the Expo organized in Palermo in 1891 whose staging was entrusted to Ernesto Basile. In this context Franca Florio, sister-in-law of Vincenzo, rewarded Cagno, the first winner of the plaque, with a bas-relief even signed Lalique. Since then the success of the Targa Florio was legendary: first in the world championship, attracting participants and audiences from all over the world, and since 1977 transformed into a rally version, held until today, the event still attracts thousands of fans on the circuit and the attention of many car manufacturers who test and present the new models. The circuit and the complex of the tribune have already been recognized as a historical and cultural heritage by the Sicilian Region and to a path of valorization of the same are engaged for a long time the Automobile Club of Italy, the Metropolitan City of Palermo and the Municipality of Termini Imerese on whose territory insist the tribune and the Municipalities of the Madonie crossed by the route: Cerda, Caltavuturo, Castellana, Petralia Sottana and Soprana, Sclafani Bagni, Castelbuono, Collesano Campofelice di Roccella, Scillato and Geraci Siculo. This path of protection and valorization that to date sees also a plan introduced from the Metropolitan City to assert on the PNRR aimed to the creation of a park dedicated to the Florio Targa and the automobilismo called Floriopoli, risks to be scarred from the construction, on part of the itinerary, of a roundabout to service of the works tied to the plan of Italian Railway Network (RFI) within the plan relative to the doubling of the railway Palermo-Catania-Messina. In this sense it would be modified not only the path but that the landscape related to the history that I told you. For this reason together with the mayor and the junta of the city of Termini Imerese, today we ask - I, among other things, with a question - a variant of plan that without affecting the important plan of doubling railway, can move the connected road works in order not to prejudice the circuit of the Florio Targa. We make our own the will of Vincenzo Florio who recommended us: "Continue my work, because I created it to challenge time". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u45	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-418.ana.u46	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 29 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 16.04 a.m.)
