ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 7 April. The agenda for today's sitting provides for the discussion of the decree-law on African swine fever, at the end of which the sitting will be suspended until 6 p.m. At 6 p.m., until its conclusion, the general discussion of the decree-law on the crisis in Ukraine will take place. To this end, the sitting shall not include closing hours. The examination of the measure will continue at tomorrow's sitting. At 3 p.m. tomorrow the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Defence, Labour and Social Policy and Health. Next week's schedule provides for discussion of the following measures: draft law on the mandate of the mayors, control of management and inconferibility of tasks, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; from the writing venue, the institution of the National Day of the memory of the Alps, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission; from the writing venue, the bill containing provisions for simultaneous registration to two higher education courses, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; where concluded by the Commission, the bill of delegation to the Government for the support and enhancement of the family. Thursday, April 7, at 15, the question time will take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 29 March 2022, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 7 April: [[Wednesday, March 30 h. 9,30 - Drawing of Law No. 2533 - Decree-Law No. 9, African swine fever (expands on April 18) - Drawing of Law No. 2562 - Decree-Law No. 14, Crisis in Ukraine (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expands on April 26) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 31, 15) Thursday 31 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday, April 5, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2462 and related - Mandate of the mayors, control of management and inconferibilità of assignments (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1371 - Establishment of the National Day of the memory of the Alps (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Drawing of law n. 2415 and connected - Provisions in the matter of simultaneous enrolment to two higher education courses (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (approved by the House of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2459 - Delegations to the Government for the support and enhancement of the family (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (if concluded by the Commission) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 7, 15 hours) Wednesday 6 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 7 " h. 9,30 am]] Amendments to the Bill No 2462 and related (Sent of Mayors, Control of Management and Inconferibility of Tasks) should be tabled by 12 noon on Friday 1 April. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 2459 (Delegations to the Government for the support and enhancement of the family) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2533 (Decree-Law No 9, African swine fever) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 42'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 2562 (Decree-Law No. 14, Crisis in Ukraine) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 42' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 30' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2533. The rapporteurs, Senators Biti and Bergesio, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Biti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u7	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my co-rapporteur, Senator Bergesio, the Presidents of the Commission, all the Commissioners and the representative of the Government. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps at first this measure has not been underestimated, but, as it is a disease that concerns - fortunately - only pigs, it has not been treated with the attention it deserves. African swine fever is brought by a virus of the family asfivirus, extremely resistant, so much so that its spread is very easy. It is transmitted not only inter species, and therefore between suidae (slinging or pigs), but each of us, with our own shoes, going into the woods and coming into contact where the virus has passed, can spread it. Italy had already dealt with the African swine fever virus in Sardinia, with another variant compared to the one now present in Piedmont and Liguria. Eradicalo only in Sardinia - all of us know to be an island, which would allow a certain ease in the containment of animals and, therefore, of the diffusion itself - was really difficult. Now we find ourselves with this new variant, which comes from Eastern Europe and which, for now, has hit only the wild species, that is the wild boar, involving several individuals: until a few days ago had been found positive more than 70. A whole range of prescriptions and measures have already been put in place to try to block the spread of this infectious disease. Fortunately - as I said - it is not a zoonosis and, therefore, it is not a disease that also infects man. However, the last two years should teach us that infectious diseases must never be caught under the ambush, they must never be considered not important. In this case - and Senator Bergesio will speak more widely about it - we must absolutely prevent this disease from moving from the wild boar, that is, from the wild pig, to the domestic pig; otherwise - God forbid - all the farms in our country would be at risk and would lead to collapse an entire supply chain for us fundamental. The Commission had a basic text. The need was to proceed quickly and well. From all those we have heard, who have been really many (of course the Ministry, in the figure of the director, but also zooprofilattic institutes, veterinary services, associations and universities) and who we thank for the contributions they have given us, we were asked to act quickly and also to try to allocate resources. Initially this decree-law was a financial invariance and, therefore, I would like to thank - for my part, but I really think I can do so from the whole Commission - the Government and Minister Patuanelli who decided to allocate resources to this measure. It was not so obvious that it was possible, but it was an objective that we had set ourselves and that we were able to pursue. The Commission has also worked to make important changes and to try to give some more power to the extraordinary Commissioner, already identified by the Presidency of the Council, who has the task of coordinating the regions to eradicate the disease where she is already present and to try not to spread it where it has not yet arrived. With the amendments voted on last night, we have finally given the Commissioner some more power - and the resources have also gone in that direction - especially to put networks in place. Perhaps some colleagues will think that it is nothing, but in reality this disease stops blocking the movement of animals and wild boars. So, if for now highways and large roads of communication have made sure that wild boars did not go from one side to the other, thus preventing an even greater spread, much is now in charge of the Commissioner and the Regions, who will have to build barriers with fences to try to block the animals and not let them escape by spreading the disease in this way. I'm gonna finish. I really thank the Commissioners because we have all remained on the substance of the measure, despite the differences that - I am glad - are present in this Parliament. We had positions at the beginning also very distant, but sometimes a problem resolves starting from two different points to achieve the same goal. This happened during the work of our Commission: the objective of all the members of the 9th and 12th Commissions was to act quickly to block the spread of African swine fever. We have really limited ourselves to the merit of this moment of serious emergency concerning the suidae (the boars for now, and we hope that it will never touch the domestic pigs). Mr President, a small consideration must be given to the management of wildlife, which probably needs to be dealt with in a mature and serious manner in the Commission's discussions, as the Commission has shown it is capable of doing on this occasion. There are many infectious diseases, specific species but also zoonoses, which certainly need to pay attention to this issue, without of course thinking about the great problems of farmers, which I will not deal with in order not to override the merit of today's issue. The work has been very important, so I thank both the Parent President and President Vallardi, all the Commissioners and the Government again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u8	I call the rapporteur, Senator Bergesio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u9	Mr President, I too would like to thank all those who have committed themselves to this measure, as well as the members of the Government who have been very carefully present in the Commission. The measure to our examination is very important and is born not against someone, but to give a hand and help a relevant chain of our country, that of pig farming, both in the phase of production and of transformation, that has received very heavy shocks in the last months, with a dry loss per week of over 25 million euros. It is a real loss, especially because African swine fever has entered a complicated environment and in an area where pig production is very demanding and numerous, such as that of the Piedmont Region, where over 3,500 companies operate in the sector with a million and three hundred thousand heads out of eight million products in our country. On the other hand, this chain is part of an Italian context in which we have a total of about 25,000 companies working in the livestock production sector and over 3,500 in the processing sector. All this makes us think - and it has made us think from the outset - that it was important to give the necessary powers to try to eradicate - this is the exact term on this front - African swine fever, just as other countries of the European Union have done, such as Belgium, which was able to intervene in a very short time. The measure basically recalls three principles: the first concerns the regions which must draw up, be approved and have plans for the eradication of swine fever and for the containment of wildlife. The second principle is the role of the Commissioner, with his powers and resources available. On this point, the Commissions and the Government have worked well because, in the end, we have succeeded, by tabling some amendments - about fifteen in total - to make the measure a turning point, making it concrete and feasible, especially because - I am talking about Decree-Law No 9 - without resources and in such a context it was impossible for the Commissioner to operate. Thanks to the intervention of the Minister of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies Patuanelli, as well as of the other ministries that shared the commitment, 10 million euros were allocated, resources taken from what was included in the decree support-b, the 50 million euros measure, 15 of which serve companies and enterprises to implement the biosafety principles also recalled by this decree. On the other hand, we felt it would be useful to resume, from the remaining EUR 35 million for the processing sector, EUR 10 million to use them immediately in this context, because the Commissioner cannot act if he does not have the resources available. This means - it is a commitment of the Minister, a commitment of ours and a commitment of the Government - that these resources must be refilled and restored as soon as possible - we have also presented an agenda on this matter - so that it is ensured that in the first useful measure they must be restored in the correct context, which is that of the pig supply chain which is suffering very serious losses. In amending the measure, we have also succeeded in giving the Commissioner clear powers as to how to act in its immediate day-to-day operation. The issue of fences, which my colleague Mrs Biti spoke about well before, was also very important, but we cannot only talk about fences or containment methods if we cannot then implement them because of urbanistic problems, landscapes, cultural heritage and everything that our country faces when we have something to do and it is unfortunately discovered that simplification exists only verbally and not substantially. Here too, we have managed to establish a rule with deadlines to be met, but they are very fast: if there is no response in twenty days, there is progress, especially on the issue of the public benefit that is given full mandate to the Commissioner. For this reason I believe that the measure under consideration has taken up a number of important articles also on the topic of biosafety, on which will be presented an implementing decree, on which I invite the government to indicate clear measures, asking that indications be given at national level especially to the farms and the breeders so that they can act in accordance with a system that makes it possible to preserve the breeding from external insertions. I am thinking, for example, of the demarcation, closure of all accesses, of the revenue of the means, of the personnel and - fundamental - of the material within the farm. I am still thinking of the protection of sheds, the management of dead animals, the entry of all types of loads and also, and above all, the biosafety of those who enter, those who work and those who work at the health level in the area of controls, management and prevention. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that this is a measure that guides our country especially because in sectors, such as poultry, important progress has already been made, while on pig farming there is still some difficulty. I think, however, there are conditions for doing well. We considered it useful - as I said before - to present the agenda mentioned; I appeal to the Government so that in the next measures it is possible to amend and directly, perhaps with decree-law, to return the resources to the sector, which - as already noted - is suffering. We now have countries around the world asking for certifications that should not be required, because pig meat or processed meat, ham and cold cuts must come from areas or areas free from African swine fever. This is absolutely not conceivable, because we know that in the infected area there are two farms and in it the animals are killed. There is therefore no problem from this point of view and above all we must act immediately to contain the situation. Hence also the passage with the Regions that must act. I would remind you that many of them have not yet transmitted plans for the eradication of swine fever and, above all, prevention. Also those Regions must be operational, because it is essential that, from the point of view of the control of the Ministry of Health, but also of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) and of all those called to make important checks, there is awareness of what is happening throughout the country. We are here today to listen to the speeches that will take place during the general debate, but above all to say that perhaps it is not the best possible measure that could be taken, but we have all changed it together, making it immediately feasible. There is no doubt that other important measures will be possible in the forthcoming measures. Someone asked us about the resources for all those sectors that are in crisis, in spite of pig farming on the territory; we also talk about those who carry out tourism activities, of receiving tourists, of those who operate on the territory in many ways. However, this has not been possible in the measure before us. As it was not possible to amend Law No 157 of 1992, as requested by several parties with knowledge of the facts, since no one has invented anything. I call for this aspect, which our Group has always advocated, to be taken into account. It is essential that the 30-year-old rule should be amended. These are not only wildlife damage, but also damage to the cultivation and safety of cities. Huge problems in our country must be tackled at the level of agricultural production, also and above all on the containment of wildlife. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u11	Mr President, Government, the measure on swine fever is certainly very important. We discussed this intensively in the 9th and 12th Commissions. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President Parente and the two rapporteurs, Senator Biti and Senator Bergesio. Good work's been done. And this does not mean that it was a simple job, because the theme of swine fever, which I hope remains circumscribed, is very serious for our country, especially for the territories of Liguria and Piedmont. It is a very serious and important issue on which two worlds have clashed and it has therefore served the great work of mediation of the rapporteurs and the Presidents to try to find a synthesis. Two worlds have clashed, the one to protect animals, the animalist world, and - on the other hand - the world of hunters, both with their own reasons and positions to defend. This has complicated the work in the Commission, but it has been possible to sum up the measure that we are going to vote on today, especially in defence of the breeding world, which is a natural part of this country's economy. There is no doubt that important consideration must be given to the fact that swine fever has further highlighted the problem of wildlife and, above all, the damage caused by wild animals. I would remind you that a year ago the 9th Commission adopted, almost unanimously, a resolution calling for an amendment to Law 157 of 1992 aimed at reducing damage from wild animals. I believe that we absolutely must put our hands on a reform of Law 157 of 1992, because in this country we have too much damage from wild animals. I speak of it as an animalist, as a friend of animals, but when too many animals go to destroy the work of an entire year of our farmers, they are probably not so much friends of man anymore. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to intervene with rationality not only for the eradication of swine fever, but also to decrease the excessive number of animals, returning them to their territories: for example, I do not believe that seeing wild boars around Rome is a great sign of civilization; I do not believe that wild boars around many other cities of our country are a sign of civilization and I do not think they are even so good within those realities, so we absolutely have to intervene. The League has always been on these positions and as a party it is a friend of animals, but it also stands in defence of the work of our farmers and we know, at this particularly difficult time for our agriculture, how much they need help. That's why we did this important job. Today we will vote for economic aid not only to fence and eradicate swine fever, but also to achieve a milestone in the initiative to revisit Law 157 of 1992, which we absolutely need. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u12	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u13	Mr President, a lot has already been said. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and for the work they have done in the Commission, which certainly tried to sew the various sensitivities which - as President Vallardi also said - emerged during the debate. As Senator Biti said, the farmers asked us to intervene immediately. I would like to make a comment on this, because from the first report about the presence of African swine fever in an animal found dead at the enactment of the decree-law that we are discussing today it has been two months; from that 17 February it has passed another month: in three months, therefore, we have only succeeded - I say it not to make controversy, but because it must be the object of reflection - to activate the bureaucracy and it has been done the simplest thing, that is to say to establish to do nothing: everything has been blocked, all the hunting activities, all the play and work activities in the woods. I say this, Mr President, because there is very likely something to be reviewed throughout the legislative system which regulates the hunting aspects in Italy. It seems to me that Mr Vallardi and Mr Bergesio have also referred to this. I'd like to make a simple note. Many documents have already been presented in the direction of amending Italian legislation on the containment of wildlife. One, in particular, is a report that the Agriculture Commission voted unanimously: only four were abstention votes, but all the others were positive. This report, which concerned a deal on wildlife damage, was voted on on 30 June last year. Mr President, allow me to make these remarks. That report referred to many species of animals which are, in fact, a damage to agriculture but, in particular, the wild boar. The wild boar is spoken of as a particularly overcrowded and overestimated species. There is an excessive amount of animals compared to the sustainability of the territory, which poses many problems. I briefly leave the problem of road safety aside, because most of the accidents that occur and, unfortunately, victims are also caused by these people. I leave aside the damage to agriculture, the destruction of crops. That is what was said in that report. These are a few lines, which I would like to read to remind myself, but also to the House: Among the implications that make it necessary and urgent to intervene on the excessive proliferation of the species are the health risks that the excessive spread of the boar can exert towards the livestock sector. The disproportionate number of wild boars exponentially increases the risk of introduction of certain diseases such as African swine fever (PSA), which can create important health risks for the subsequent spread of pathogens, and then continues. We had written this and approved it in the Commission on 30 June last year. Mr President, I should also like to say to my fellow senators, perhaps a little distracted, that there were about twenty points in that report which gave clear indications to the government on how to try to combat the spread. Let me mention a few: to establish a sustainable control plan for the wild boar species; to rethink the approach to the management of wild boar in the territory, aiming at effective prevention; to activate, in order to enact effective rules that fill legislative gaps; to amend Law No 157 of 1992. Mr President, I am saying all this because, when dealing with situations in a demagogic way, then instead of preventing them, we are forced to deal with emergencies as we are now. We have repeatedly requested, at the meeting of the Leaders in the Commission, that we be able to bring this document to the House, but we have always found obstructionism, particularly on the part of some forces that face the problem in a demagogic way. [[Applause]] I am referring to the Mixed Group and Senator De Petris, who have always opposed bringing the measure to the House for her debate. I also wonder who Senator De Petris represents, because within the Mixed Group there are completely different positions on the subject. I am thinking, for example, of Senators Abbot and Fattori, who have signed and signed this document; yet, their Leader in the Commission has always opposed it. Here too, therefore, there is a matter to be clarified. In the same way, I say very clearly that the same Movimento 5 Stars had opposed the discussion of the document. Even the Democratic Party has not had a very strong attitude from time to time: indeed, it was very lukewarm. I say this because, if this measure had passed through this House and had been able to debate it and approve it, surely with some changes, perhaps we would have dealt with this situation differently today. The other day, in the Health Commission, at the end of the sitting, the President of the Commission asked me why the regions, despite the decree, have not yet implemented any prevention plan. It is simple: the regulatory system is confused and does not allow institutions to operate. Mr President, I believe that in this House there is certainly a strong political responsibility for some forces, at this moment in the majority, which, with their pre-emptive, environmentalist and animalist attitude, are questioning the whole livestock supply chain, which corresponds to 1.5 points of national GDP for livestock only. If we expand the debate on food processing and food processing, we are talking about tens of thousands of jobs and billions of economies that we might see blurred. Even today, only on the news that there is African swine fever in Italy, fortunately - for now - in that restricted area, many foreign nations have blocked imports from Italy. This is what we are talking about and not about boars who are seen walking through the streets of Rome or other cities. [[Applause]] We need to take action on this. As to the merits of the provision, the decree was born deflated. The Commissioner was only a coordinator and had no means, powers and resources to put in place decisive, timely and fast action. I appreciate the work done by our rapporteurs because, in some way, some resources have finally arrived, but we are talking about EUR 10 million. We are investing EUR 10 million in a supply chain worth billions. More attention had to be paid to the fact that 10 million euros (even if well come because - as they say - old husband, better than nothing) are too few. You have to have the conscience to invest. Now we want to make fences, but how long will it take to make it 260 kilometers? In these weeks the wild boar population will certainly become five or six times higher than the present one and, therefore, at that point, there will be further pressure to the outside. You have to be aware of what you do. If we do not take strong and targeted actions for immediate eradication within the red zone, trying to reduce the amount of those grits, which are around not only the red zone, but throughout Italy - it is proved that the large number of wild boars brings, in fact, this disease - we will not be able to solve the problem I repeat that when we face such problems we must do it with our feet on the ground, in a concrete way and not with the ideological forms that very often - unfortunately - so many movements of the majority are adopting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u14	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure, approved by the Council of Ministers, contains urgent measures to eradicate the spread of African swine fever. Eradicating the plague in wild boars and preventing infection in farmed pigs is an important intervention for the protection of the national pig population and of the entire chain. It should be pointed out that in Sardinia PSA was practically eradicated and belongs to genotype 1. The PSA arrived in Piedmont, Emilia-Romagna and Liguria is of genotype 2 and, if it were to expand, it would be really dangerous for the mega pigsty of the Po Valley. Those of Sardinia and the other regions are two distinct situations, but Sardinia can be an example to understand the initial mistakes. There were more or less sporadic cases, which for some decades were not worthy of special health care, perhaps because the virus did not cause damage to human health. The main consequences of this were the economic consequences for farmers and cold cuts, especially for the European Union's blockade of exports of products from the entire Sardinian pig sector. In a few years a pillar of the Sardinian economy had been destroyed. But what were the actions of the then regional administration, which for long years had been limited to selective killing in herds affected by the virus? As we all know, the major problem and anti-popular solution was the widespread practice of wild grazing of pigs in the vast state estates of Supramonte and Gennargentu. The free pasture of pigs, in continuous contact with wild boars (a very erratic species), was the main cause of the spread of the disease, leading the administration to the establishment of a project unit for the eradication of PSA, formed by health representatives, FoReSTAS, agriculture and environment. The regional government thus begins with the adoption of an extraordinary action plan to combat the disease for the years 2015-2017; the plan subsequently approved by the European Commission for its co-financing. It is precisely thanks to the continuous checks that last month, in the territory of Urzulei in Sardinia, forty pigs were killed, as they were not registered to the zootechnic registry and without owners and health checks. These activities are part of the action to combat the PSA virus, which sees the illegal breeding of pigs as one of the most important risk factors for the continuation of the virus in those territories. As the European Commissioners pointed out after the mission in 2021, these unregistered pigs constitute the real transmission belt of the virus between the wild population and domestic animals. But the measures taken as soon as they were taken have resulted in a total commitment of the entire regional veterinary structure and of the hundreds of wild boar hunters companies, which have made a decisive contribution, limiting the number of wild animals and providing the findings necessary to assess the spread of the disease. In summary, the plans provide for the division of the municipalities into red and white hunting areas, with requirements, concessions and various prohibitions in relation to the cases of PSA possibly certified by the analysis of the findings. The teams operating in the red zones had to equip themselves with an onerous aseptic pit for the destruction of the bowels and residues of the slaughter of wild boars and the appreciation of the meat cannot take place without the certified negativity, after delivery of the results of the analysis of the findings. Yes, positive results: in a few years PSA in Sardinia has almost completely disappeared. The plan of the project unit is continuing, with the result that most of the municipalities on the island has become white. We therefore look forward with confidence to the European Commission' s report, which visited the PSA health monitoring chain last November; on the basis of their response, we can finally call for the end of the pigmeat embargo for Sardinia and for export to be released. The current measure will prevent the regions affected from this exhausting ordeal, which we have experienced. So let us hope that the experience that Sardinia has experienced will contribute in some way to avoiding the mistakes made in the past and that the urgent measures taken by the Government, with the suggestions and amendments tabled in the Commissions and arrived in this House, can put an end to the spread of this terrible virus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u16	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u17	Mr President, at last a decree-law on this problem, in times - alas - not too fast; but it is understandable that the technical times of bureaucracy unfortunately do not help, as a colleague said earlier. The problem, however, is serious, because, after a pandemic phase that certainly did not help, indeed has tried heavily these territories, swine fever has somewhat further aggravated the situation, for now limited to the Ligurian-Piedmontese Apennines. The wild boars are actually vectors of virus propagation, because they do not move on pre-ordered boundaries. The inspections of the EUVET (EU Veterinary Emergency Team), the European Veterinary Service, have defined the criteria and actions to be carried out. It is also true - as was rightly said - that the decision to set about 300 kilometers of fences - to me it actually seems surreal - and at the same time monitor passively and subsequently and possibly select the animals with various forms of hunting serves only and exclusively to lengthen a situation that - not only in my opinion, but as pointed out by many - should be dealt with faster. In Italy we have 1,200 kilometers of Appennino, but now the wild boars arrive also in the cities. Therefore, the reflection attached to Law 157 of 1992 and the selection elements that should be applied throughout the year today must be put at the centre of the situation, while not forgetting that this is an emergency, but the emergency can be prolonged over time and can cause devastating damage. The numbers have been said: 3,500 transformers only in Piedmont; 25,000 pig farms in Italy; a point and a half of GDP. These are very important numbers that cannot be underestimated. It is clear that this decree-law, the funds included in the decree-law support-b, the appointment of an extraordinary Commissioner - an absolutely competent person who is already working and has issued an order in these days - the regions that have been put in a position to operate and are already, in fact, operating, putting in place measures, are all elements that indicate that we are committed to trying to resolve the situation. However - as has been said very well - there is some resource, but let us not forget that it serves much more, also because there is not only the pig system, but also a whole tourist, recreational and environmental system that creates an induced and, even there, economics. It can be more or less impressive, but in any case they are territories that live by that and it is an integrated system that is part of our tradition and of course of our national context. Therefore, I believe that we must act immediately from a financial point of view. Here no one asks for alms or resources aimed at speculating. However, in the face of a total blockade and the impossibility of any action, of trampling a territory in order to avoid rightly bringing the plague around - a clearly not positive situation - we need support. Well come this decree-law. We welcome the possibility of working, but we must immediately put ourselves in a position to support the territories, the supply chains and the integrated system. And, on the other hand - as has been said before - we must have the courage, when emergencies arise - and in Italy in this moment of emergencies I think there are too many - to eliminate all those ideological factors aimed at shouting out against something or simply at capturing consent. Instead, we must think that there are situations that really affect the integrated systems on which our country lives. This is an exhortation that I make, really in tune with the other colleagues who spoke earlier. I think it really is time to put a hand on the hunting law, so as to ensure a systemic balance for this country, that it protects, at the same time, the system of fauna, the world of hunting and the agricultural world, avoiding that such situations are determined, which are then really difficult to chase. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u18	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking with the following statement: Since 1978, since I deal with swine fever, I have never found the situation as difficult as at this time; the disease is present in five continents and in over 50 countries and continues to progress very quickly. This was said by Professor Manuel Sanchez-Vizcaino Rodriguez, a World Health Organization expert and director of the reference laboratory for PSA, who infects domestic and wild pigs with a high mortality rate. We had the pleasure of having the professor auditioned at the Senate. The greatest danger and the first transmission channel - the expert has explained - are represented by the export of the infected pork meat. And as far as Italy is concerned, it is necessary to understand how PSA arrived in order to control it and prevent it from continuing to arrive. "The genetic sequencing of the virus in Italy has not yet been carried out" explained Professor and it is even more important to know the origin, i.e. whether it came from Europe, the European Union or even Asia and how, whether by ship or by road. This is to avoid a second infection and make a rigorous surveillance program. According to the expert, the only possibility we have is the control of the disease, which can be carried out on the basis of three individual actions: early prevention before it spreads, the containment of the infected area and the reduction of the population of wild boars. It is certainly important - as my colleague, Senator Bergesio, together with Senator Biti, has already said - for the measures that are being implemented with this measure. He also recalled how fundamental the action of the individual regions is. As far as my territories of origin are concerned, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the year the regional fauna-venatory plan 2022-2027 was approved, thanks to the work of the Junta, the Regional Council and the Councillor Corazzari, which states that it is an innovative programming document, attentive to environmental requirements and to the comparison with stakeholders. Explains the Councillor Corazzari, with delegation to hunting and fishing: With this plan, for the first time, each with its own specific characteristics, some criticalities related to the wildlife that characterize our territory: wolf and large carnivores on one side and wild boar on the other. On the one hand, by promoting integration with other regional programmers, on the other hand, by promoting, in an overall framework, the control activities of wild boar, especially which, as we know, can also be a source of damage to protected habitats (...) and, more recently, unfortunately, as an active element in the fight against the possible entry of African swine fever into our territory. In recalling the important issue that we are dealing with, that is the health one, let us not forget the implications on the productive and economic fabric and on the breeding of pigs, which represents a fundamental economy for some regions of our country. We have therefore also given importance to the serious economic fallout that might occur. For the same reason, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of any important negative effects that might have on the agricultural sector. It is true that we are talking about the livestock and health sector, but the presence of this wild animal, the wild boar, is already causing major damage to the agricultural sector. I am now quoting an article in a periodical newspaper on agricultural products, "Agrarian Informant," entitled: More corn in the fields: wild boars are content. At this time when we have major production problems about the import of raw materials related to the food and agriculture world, it is important to reflect on the containment of these wilds and on the reasons I have just outlined. I read from the article: "That of Mr. Claudio Orlandi of the Castellina farm in Borgonovo (Piacenza) is the desperate testimony of a farmer, unfortunately, one of the many, who will no longer sow corn because of wild boars. In 2021 it had to re-seminate 23 hectares of maize, of the 25 farms dedicated to the cultivation, and then collect little or nothing with a damage to the cultivations - we speak of a single farmer - which the expert estimated to exceed 45,000 euros. In the article there is also a picture of the cornfield reset by wild boars. I keep quoting: Orlandi conducts a dairy farm with about 320 animals, 150 of which are lactating, the corn of farm origin was a fundamental element of the ration. "From the photos taken with the drone on my fields you can see well where the wild boars ate the first time because in those areas the seedlings are lower, where they are higher there are holes because they entered later, and finally a third where the bare ground remained. At each reseed some damage was also done with the tractor because we had to enter the field trying not to crush the already born plants. A huge job with an increase in costs: seeds, diesel, time." "For years we have been calling for the eradication of wild boars in hill and plain areas where the herds have become sedentary by exchanging our fields for their supermarket" - says Filippo Gasparini, president of Confagricoltura Piacenza -. "Now with the nightmare of swine fever at the gates the killings are suspended. It is a paradoxical situation: we should increase the production of maize, but wild boars eat it but we cannot cut it down." From all this we understand the importance of this measure. I would like to remind you that from other points of view too - for example, if we look at the ecological aspect - there are repercussions for the presence of these wilds. Let us remember that in mountain areas we are working to ensure that the reduction of agricultural production does not take place. But in the mountainous territory unfortunately there are and there are many damages, so we have to work on this. The bushes of the grassy mantles of the mountain territories, where hay is produced and where herbs are collected to feed cows, sheep and goats that produce cheeses typical of our territories, is frustrated, so there is a fall on the livestock, on the breeding and also on agriculture. The ecological aspect is therefore important, but it is not enough to go to the stage of Coldiretti at the events of "City and countryside united against wild boars" if then there is no action that meets the world of breeding. Let us also remember that an emergency is already in place and concerns the world of agriculture. I therefore call on all my fellow Members to reflect on the need to work on this too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u20	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u21	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that at first I too had somewhat underestimated this measure, in the sense that it seemed easy to me: there are infected animals and it is clear that what needs to be done is to bring them down because they are very contagious. This protects both the health of all other wild boars and indirectly the health of all people who feed on wild boar meat; all this taking into account the needs of the food processing industry. It therefore seemed to me to be a simple measure to deal with. As the debate went on in the Commission, I realized that this draft law could actually be a cultural model to reason and reflect on the balance of everyone's rights. I would like to give examples: surely we must consider balancing the rights of those who have to break down wild boars in some way, because they are sources of risk and danger and they want to protect a brand, a series of products, the whole of the breeding. Then there are the rights of those who believe that the risk of infection is all the higher because these animals have such a fast reproductive capacity. It is like saying that the concentration of these animals in circumscribed territories, in contained territories, creates a risk factor in itself. So there are the rights of those who think that such preventive measures, i.e. the killing of these animals, also raise the question of the rights of hunters. But even among hunters there are different rights: there are the rights of those who believe that to deal with this model of hunting you can use models already experienced, such as hunting with dogs, and those who say that the real model is only that of the human-animal relationship through the tool of rifle or other weapon. In the context of the whole debate there are animal rights. We approved, a short time ago, in this House, even an amendment to our Constitution, making room for the recognition of the environment and implicitly for the recognition of animal rights. But when we talk about animals, can we really talk about their rights, since the concept of law must always correspond to the concept of duty? Or should we not talk more simply about a process of protection that we must have towards animals, and therefore about a relationship of care that preserves, within certain limits, their needs, for example the need to feed, the need to live? In this particular case, knowing the speed of reproduction of these animals, we must also take into account the need of sows that keep the young and, therefore, they are concerned that they in turn have to eat. We know that the most dangerous of all these animals is precisely the sow when it perceives the risk condition for its little ones, so there is the right of an animal to guard its little ones. How do we keep the rights of healthy animals together - since we want to talk about rights - with respect to the alleged rights of sick animals? Are there the rights of infected animals or can infected animals meet only the elimination? All this has been more than the systematic subject of our meetings, of the hearings that have been held, of the debate that has been held on the amendments, of the debate that has been in general discussion. Therefore, there are the rights of farmers who want to offer a product on the market, a food product of safe quality, with a sure ability to defend a quality that affects human health; then there are the rights of those who have their lands close to where there are herds of wild boars, because hungry boars blow fences and stick under the ground. Can these people claim their rights, and how can they claim the right to their living space, which is also the right to security around them? Then there are the rights that veterinary medicine must exercise from the center and regional plans, not by chance the first article is all centered on them and on the responsibility of the regions to guarantee the right to health, collectively understood. I also insist that the most insidious of the arguments is the one that touches the key point of determining whether there are rights of animals, how they decline and whether there is a concept of right detached from a concept of duty. It is clear that I cannot, with animals, deal with the subject of their duty, except by protecting myself in some way. We all know a series of episodes that have also occurred in the city of Rome. During the previous Junta we had seen that the wild boars generally arrived and concentrated around the dumpsters, where they could find residues of food and, at times, they also had the strength and power to overturn them with all the mess and chaos that followed. We saw a few days at a point in the city of Rome a sow that, in the middle of the street, nursed all its small boars, even raising, in the situation of risk, that dimension of human sympathy that is always found when someone takes care of subjects, in that case more fragile subjects. A few days ago a quiet wild boar was found, sleeping in a garden, in an area of the city that can not be defined as degraded, place that was the area of Vigna Clara, which falls among the good neighborhoods of the city. The boar was asleep, they were called the Forces of Order, someone intervened and fell asleep. We can say that we have tried to intervene with the greatest possible care. However, once this animal was asleep and taken away, it was killed. This has raised, at all levels, an incredible tension. Was this animal entitled to be put back into captivity? Were you entitled to return to the center area to scare or otherwise to lift any kind of tension and concern there was? I believe that if, from an economic point of view, the measure raises a number of very precise questions and, if from a health point of view, perhaps it poses the simplest of all questions because the infected animal, as such, must be eliminated, from an anthropological point of view it is a positive provocation to reason on whether we should consider their rights, the protection report, our rights, how we should move and how it should be interpreted. This is the first time, after we have approved the amendment of the Constitution on the protection of the environment, that we are faced with an issue that I like to consider anthropological of the highest value, because indirectly it also affects the whole issue of the relationship between animals and scientific research. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u22	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Senator Bergesio and Senator Biti for the work they have done together with all the members of the Commission, their respective Presidents and Minister Patuanelli for their attention to the important measure we are considering today. The members of the Commission have worked actively and constructively, recognizing the serious risk that we are taking. As is well known, since January 7 last, the presence of African swine fever of wild boar in the neighbouring Provinces of Genoa and Alexandria has been detected on the Italian territory. We are aware of the details of the disease, which have already been discussed in detail by the previous rapporteurs and colleagues. The cases found were concentrated in the area between the two motorways A25 and A7, but recently we are witnessing the finding of positive carcasses beyond this perimeter: sign that the highways do not represent an obstacle to the movement of wild boars, with consequent spread of the disease. This requires a reflection on the need to approve the measure in question quickly, so that the resources reach the regions in good time: just think that we are already in April. These are urgent measures aimed at preventing the movement of wild boar by next summer. Soon, in fact, the season of the parts will begin, with a doubling of the number of wild boars and consequently, starting next June, the infection could undergo a significant acceleration determined by the new born. That is why the measure we are debating is urgent. It is therefore essential to strengthen the fences already present on the roads that delimit the infected area, as well as to build ex novo, where possible, physical barriers that secure the boundaries of the restricted area. The fences are certainly the most effective tool to proceed with the containment of wild boars and for this reason have been destined 10 million euros, although we are aware that the orographic conformation of the territory will not make it easy to place them. There is therefore a real possibility that the virus may spread among wild boars in a much larger area, including both particularly rugged mountainous areas, of difficult accessibility and with a high intensity of this population, and urban areas where wild boars live accustomed to man's proximity. Removable fences and temporary structures must be carried out by the regions concerned by way of derogation from the provisions of the building regulations and those on environmental impact assessment and, in the presence of landscape constraints, by means of a simplified procedure. This step is also fundamental in order to keep the times to the maximum for their realization: the times are in fact the crucial factor. One of the objectives for which the Commissions have worked has been the eradication of the disease, although it is aware that this is an arduous goal, which requires seriousness and method in the approach. Synergy between the various administrations involved and stakeholders (including farmers and hunters) will be needed, with the depopulation of wild boars. In this context, leadership and coordination by regions and public veterinary services will be essential. The other objective was to protect the Italian pig supply chain and export, considering that several countries, such as Japan and China, but also Taiwan, Thailand, Mexico, Peru, Ecuador, the Philippines and South Africa, have immediately undertaken a protectionist policy and in this sense have closed their market to meat and all pigmeat products. The Association of Meats and Cold cuts (Assica) and the Union national food supply chains meat and eggs (UnaItalia) estimate, in addition to the damages suffered directly by the breeders in the infected areas and in the surrounding areas, a damage extended to the meat and cold cuts sector of at least 20 million euros per month only for the failure to export. It is therefore not a hunting of wild boars, which, however, if affected by disease, would not live in any case, but the survival of an entire agri-food sector that is fundamental for our economy and for hundreds of companies and workers who ask us to do quickly. The League will continue to work to protect the activities of those living in the red zone and who during this period of the year see different work activities excluded, access to parks and various activities related to tourism and hospitality, currently in great difficulty. In this respect we also had an amendment which we tabled and which unfortunately did not find any room for acceptance. This is certainly a measure of common sense and, even if criticism arrives, because this is the country where it is easier to criticize regardless of building, we are interested in intervening and intervening soon, so that it is not too late and the costs do not become ten times as much. Our response, ladies and gentlemen, must necessarily be as compact and rapid as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u24	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u25	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr La Pietra first took a rather ruthless picture of the management or non-management of wildlife in this country. It is a vision still heavily conditioned by ideology, by a very little knowledge of the balance between wild and domestic and, above all, perhaps conditioned by a vision now too urbanized of rural Italy. If, until thirty years ago, 70 percent of the Italian population lived in rural areas and therefore knew the mechanisms and the life of Italian rurality, while only 30 percent lived in urbanized areas, we are now moving towards a society in which, in a matter of very few years, the percentage of fact is reversed. We will have over 70 percent of people living in cities and 30 percent in rural areas. I leave out all the considerations here concerning those who will maintain and maintain those rural areas in case they become depopulated. On this, I believe that there are other instruments with which we must intervene and on which we must work. That's because I don't give up on this urban-centric vision. On the other hand, I believe that the city is functional when it can rest on a rural hinterland, which allows it to feed itself and still have control of atmospheric agents, so that they do not condition it, as happened with the floods of certain rivers, even in Veneto, with respect to environmental safety. But this is another game. I would rather focus on the anti-rural and anti-agricultural vision of a certain part of this Parliament as well. If anyone can be happy and happy to see wild boar mom feeding wild boars in the center of Rome, I, on the other hand, consider this a failure, not only of the policies of containment of the wild, but also of the policies of urban management, because it is not normal to see a wild animal living in the urban area. That is a twist of this nation, not a serious plan to contain wildlife, for the benefit not only, as in this case, of the pig raised and therefore the possibility of contracting a disease, which appears in Europe in 2014: therefore, there has been some time to study containment mechanisms. The European Union finances a project of more than €10 million for vaccine research. We are very fast, quite rightly, to find a vaccine for the Covid-19, but we are at a time when we should act to contain diseases that weigh heavily on national GDP. In fact, at this moment even our pig chain is heavily conditioned by some possible speculation at the center of the chain itself, which leads farmers to be recognized an increase of a few cents and other contractors, such as slaughterhouses, see increased expenditure on the chain of processors and sausages by more than 28-40 percent. We must be able to ensure that farmers' incomes are stable under normal conditions, which is also heavily influenced by the increase in the cost of feed. The data of the Agricultural Research Council and the analysis of the agricultural economy (Crea) photograph a situation according to which one farm in four pig and cereal sectors will not be able, in the next campaign, to buy the inputs to make the production cycle. This means that 27,000 companies are at risk. We must start from this assumption even when we deal with health and issues such as swine fever which today can only refer to a geographical area, but which certainly have a very wide reflection on the national market. Some nations - Mr La Pietra has rightly mentioned - have already closed the import of processed products from Italy today, penalising the market. We all know - and we all know - that in Europe there is a certain behavior on the part of some sovereign nation. Today the term "sovereignism," in the sense of having a national interest, has returned to fashion, quoted by Macron and not by Giorgia Meloni, Luca De Carlo or Patrizio La Pietra. Those nations today have all the interest in seeing erodes a slice of the market, today the prerogative of the Italians, to replace it with slices of the internal market. I think of France and Germany, who enjoy seeing us bogged down in bureaucracy also with reference to issues such as swine fever, which should unite us and - above all - make us ring a bell of alarm with respect to some vision I do not say old-fashioned, because no one a few years ago would have dreamed of seeing wild boars in the center of Rome, but that is now spoiled by a kind of widespread Heidi syndrome, according to which the goats make you hello, while the pig farmers are great polluters and murderers. Let's clear the field from all these cartoon visions, because that's not the case. The reality is quite different and the majority in Europe has also noticed it, which a few weeks ago had voted on rules such as that of the Farm to Fork or set-aside, which predicted the reduction of production, with the chimera of climate change, which objectively exists. We must therefore rethink our agricultural policies, and thinking about agricultural policies is already a step forward. In fact, so far little has been thought about and zero planned, unless someone gets up in this House to say that they have a serious strategic plan, based on concrete things, that will be illustrated today. I'd love to see it and also discuss it. To date, however, we have seen a counter-order, comrades of Guareschi's memory, according to which what was voted yesterday by the majority in Europe, that is, the Farm to Fork, is not good today. Greater areas are being asked to be cultivated. All perfect, but you don't fool someone who's suspended by a year means having land available with the same yield as those who have been working for maybe ten years. Otherwise, it means understanding little or nothing of agriculture. It's okay to suspend it and even extend it for as long as possible. We are talking about an agriculture - the Italian one - which is objectively one of the most sustainable in Europe. After that, we can improve. We too can improve legislation, since sometimes we do so in short-circuit with what we did last week. We must, however, start with two assumptions. The first is that we must feed a growing world population; the second is that we must guarantee our farmers a safe and secure income. [[Applause]] In fact, there can be no income security systems only for adverse events and there is no guarantee to producers of the changed or changed effects of the market. It is not possible today and we must work on this. 10:55 a.m. (Followed by De Carlo). But we have to do this by taking up this vision that the farmer is the big polluter and the one with the trendy boots, who lives in the city all week and goes to the mountains once a week, is the real environmentalist. You were wrong. [[Applause]] The true environmentalist, the one who preserves the environment forever, is the farmer. The figures tell us: our farmers have reduced the use of pesticides by 20%, while France and Germany, which today teach us, have increased it. We have an emission of 30 million tons of CO2, compared to more than 60 million in Germany and 76 million in France (the same countries that today come to dictate the rules and expect to teach us what sustainability is). We have companies that have invested; there are reports, the last of which is the one that came out of Confagricoltura, which mentions how many companies and how many investments on innovation made by our companies. Unfortunately, we have very bad water management, but it must be improved, because the other nations, yes, have done better than us. We have 11 percent of water held in our rainwater basins, while the other nations have reached almost 50 percent. So let's question ourselves and copy from the great nations, but let's put Italian sustainable agriculture at the centre, even when we do these measures, otherwise we lose focus and go to beat those who made sustainability until yesterday, like pig farmers (also in this case), for the benefit of those who have never done it and today would enjoy the same rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u27	Mr President, under this measure, which is in conversion today, in Liguria and Piedmont some wooded areas are not included in more than one hundred municipalities. This is causing huge damage to the rural economy. Think of all the refuges and bed and breakfasts, not to mention all the activities that are carried out in the woods and meadows and that are precisely excluded to anyone who wants to go hiking or cycling. Now, if it is clear that African swine fever must be contained and it must be avoided that the infection arrives in the establishments where pigs are raised to produce ham and salami, located mainly in Piedmont and Emilia, it is equally evident that this interest must be calibrated with that of the citizens, in particular Ligurian and Genoese, who at this moment are seen excluded some freedoms, such as that of turning in the woods and meadows. I say this because this foreclosure is functional to two objectives: to avoid disturbing wild boars, which could be infected and might be driven by human activities in the woods and meadows to move more, and to prevent people going into the woods and meadows from trampling areas that have been frequented by infected pigs and then bringing the virus into pig farms. These two objectives, however, are frankly not attainable: first, in the Ligurian situation, particularly in Genoa, the wild boars are in the city more than in the woods; therefore it is desirable to think that, not sending men into the woods, the wild boars do not move or move less; secondly, it would be more useful to put containment measures in the farms, preventing those who have been in contact with infected material can bring the disease inside them. In all cases, it should be noted that once again the Government has used the simplest instrument, that of preventing activities, freedoms and citizens' rights, instead of finding a more effective and less invasive path. In particular, the concern is that, once again, this measure requires technical assessments and thus deprives national and regional legislative bodies of any discretionary possibility. By Article 1, the measure lays down to regional plans the forms of containment and, therefore, foreclosure of activities for men, but in compliance with the National Plan for the monitoring and eradication of swine fever and the Manual of emergencies from African swine fever. Both of these measures provide that, if a carcass of infected animals is found, within six kilometres of the finding, any activity in the woods is precluded. You understand then that, if today we have in a vast area, but still delimited, for a number of months, the foreclosure of use of certain places by man, with the possibility of derogations from the Region, one tomorrow these regional plans will have to adhere to the Manual of emergency of swine fever and the National Plan for the surveillance and eradication of swine fever, which provide that every finding precludes an area of six kilometers. This means, potentially, that very large areas will be foreclosed and even for unlimited times. Let me give a concrete example: in Genoa, one of the last finds of carcasses happened near the cemetery of Staglieno, in a very populous city district (so not in the woods, but practically in the city); if you make a circle of six kilometers, this would include the urban park of the Walls, which is practically one of the parks most used by the Genoese, with the whole system of Forts, one of the few places where citizens go to walk. This is frankly too much. If it is imposed, through the system of referrals, that the Regional Plan is in conformity with the Manual of Emergency and the aforementioned National Plan and that every finding includes the radius of six kilometers, it means that in all the areas very close to the city, that are the green lung and the area where the Genoese go, but also other Ligurians - it can happen in many other municipalities, and not only in the Genoese one - will be precluded activities I would say essential, like the trips, the walks, the cycling or even the frequentation of shelters, or other tourist and accommodation activities that will be put in crisis. First of all, essential freedoms for citizens, already proven by previous lockdowns of a much more serious nature, such as those dictated by the pandemic, will be precluded, but this will put into crisis the entire economy of the hinterland, which does not find adequate evidence in these measures. For all this I believe that this measure is unbalanced and will not solve the problem, but it will produce many others, both in terms of limiting the freedom of citizens, and in terms of the economy of the hinterland of the affected municipalities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u28	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining the draft law on urgent measures to halt the spread of African swine fever, converting Decree-Law No 9 of 17 February 2022: an intervention that the Government has made in good time, but which we are now looking for and have already tried to improve through the amendments, correcting the basic text. I too must remember what has been done by both the Agriculture Commission and the Health Commission, to which I belong. Thanking the rapporteurs Biti and Bergesio, with all the other members of the relevant Commissions, I must say that a great work of synergy has been done. And I have to tell you the truth: we started a little discordantly, but in the end last night, at the last meeting, we arrived at just sharing on the amendments, on which, among other things, in this case too, the Government assisted us, making a useful contribution. I would therefore like to thank Mr Patuanelli, but also Mr Sileri and Mr Bini, for there has been a very important interrelationship. This bill of conversion into law brings very important new things, such as, for example, the fact that the Commissioner, who previously seemed really without art or part, now has a fund available to intervene, to be given to the regions. In addition, an important struggle by my party, along with many members of the other parliamentary groups, has led to an increase in resources. We all know, in fact, that when we come to a law conversion of an iso-resources decree-law, we wonder how we can achieve what is foreseen. In this case, an important point has been made by Members of Parliament with this request and there has been a positive return from the Government, which I thank again. Colleagues, I'd like to give you a thought. Again, we are faced with an emergency, as had already been the case with the pandemic, with the enormous difficulty of keeping important issues in balance, such as health and the economy. On the occasion of the epidemic, you saw how difficult it was for us to protect both the health of people and the economy, which consequently had serious repercussions, but we are slowly succeeding. Even in the case of swine fever - as we have heard from colleagues' speeches - human health, the environment and animal health must be balanced. Do you see how difficult it is to balance all these issues, no less important than each other? We therefore need a broad debate, which has been held, each for its own part, and then, without falling into extremes on either side, we need to find a synthesis. I believe that through this conversion into law the synthesis has been found and I am very pleased with that. 11:08 a.m. (Following BOLDRINI). However, I must add that African swine fever really seems to be on our territory if we do not act immediately. In this regard, I would like to make one point: Article 2 (3) provides that the Commissioner may ask the State to act as a substitute if the regions are not complying. This is a very important step, especially in relation to the PNRR, in which, as you know, the replacement of the State in case of non-compliance of the Regions is envisaged. I would very much like this principle of State substitution to exist even when the essential levels of assistance (LEA) in the regions are not guaranteed. We take the cue from this conversion to law so that it can be a help, while talking about other issues, in analogy with other needs, in order to ensure that, when the Regions are inopportune, someone assumes the responsibility to apply what the laws provide, for the good of the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u31	Mr President, in the Senate Environment Commission, we have examined this draft law, which covers all measures to combat the spread of African swine fever (PSA). I also recall that in the Piedmont and Liguria regions, since 7 January 2022, the presence of African swine fever has been established in wild boar populations, with a number of confirmed cases of 46 on 28 February 2022. PSA is a viral disease, not transmitted to humans, fortunately, but highly contagious, which affects domestic and feral pigs, often even fatally. In our observations to article 1, paragraph 1, between the interventions adopted with the instrument of the regional plans we think it necessary to include: a plan of management of the population of wild boars; the coordination with the hunting calendars attributable to the wild boar species within the territories falling within the infected area; the extraordinary management of the breeding pigs and their meats; campaigns of information to the public through the realization and the positioning of adequate signage in the areas involved; the organization of specific training activities for all the users of the environment, including farmers, breeders and hunters; the regulation of the various activities, including those of outdoor in the infected areas and those of active protection. As far as Article 2 is concerned, it is necessary to grant the Commissioner extraordinary powers which are appropriate for the urgent exercise of his duties. The Extraordinary Commissioner should also be granted the coordination of the Central Crisis Unit and the management of relations with ANAS, Motorways Company for Italy and with all other operators or owners of networks or road sections on which the necessary interventions for emergency management will be carried out, including with the possible involvement of civil protection. These diseases - African swine fever, as well as avian influenza, which affects domestic poultry and wild aquatic birds - actually represent two major concerns for animal husbandry not only in Italy, because there are cases around the world. Once again, we gather alarm signals about how our anthropic activities affect the balance of the planet. That is why the ecological transition that is taking place must completely re-establish the food system. Unfortunately, we are also paying for actions that are probably wrong with our economic model, such as the choice of producing high quantities of meat at an increasingly low cost; other factors can be attributed to the illegal trade and transport of animals and meats or to the incorrect disposal of waste produced by farms and infected animals, which can sometimes be included in feedingstuffs for poultry and pigs; we are also talking about wild boar poaching - a very widespread phenomenon - which is usually slaughtered on the spot illegally, contributing to the spread of the virus in question. We must make farms sustainable, which are an important part of our economy, and we must reduce the density of animals raised. It is necessary to protect the habitat and the richness of biodiversity, to carry out natural barriers in order to create a spatial distance between the wild species and the human species and to manage wild boars by planning in the medium and long term the population, also freeing the management of wildlife from hunting interests. We must also fight - I repeat - the poaching of wild boars as a measure for the protection of both biodiversity and human health. In this House I would like to read some clarifications that are given to us by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) to assess how science and our Italian experts deal with the management of African swine fever. The question as to why it is important to suspend any hunting activity in the area infected with African swine fever is as follows: these activities involve a dual risk, namely the movement of potentially infected wild boars in the territory, especially as a result of the use of techniques used by dogs, and the unintentional spread of the virus through footwear, clothing, equipment and vehicles. There is another question that ISPRA has answered by stressing the importance of regulating any type of hunting activity in the area bordering the infected area within at least 10 kilometres of the border. In view of the risks involved in the spread of African swine fever, it is important that hunting methods be adopted to limit the disturbance to wild boar in order not to increase its mobility, together with bio-safety measures that reduce the risk of spreading the virus as a result of contamination of clothing, shoes, materials and so on. Is the occurrence of African swine fever due to the high density of wild boars? Let's see how our experts respond: absolutely not, the appearance of the virus is totally independent of the density of the wild boar populations. This is important. And he adds the ISPRA: The infected wild boar populations closest to Italy live several hundred kilometres away. The appearance of the infection in the wild boar in Piedmont and Liguria is certainly due to the unknowing introduction of the virus by humans. Another question: does the high density of wild boar populations favour the persistence of the virus? Density has no significant effect on the persistence of African swine fever in nature. The considerable resistance of the virus in the environment means that the disease continues to circulate for years, even in wild boar populations with very low density. In conclusion, we must rethink our food production and consumption systems and our relations with wildlife in an ecological dimension that is respectful of all the components that characterize life on the planet. This is the best prevention we can take to preserve our health and that of animals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u32	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has been somewhat divided on the subject we are dealing with today, even though it has succeeded in finding a synthesis. Reading the text of the measure, the question arises as to whether African swine fever should actually be eradicated or whether hunting activities should be deregulated by way of derogation from Law 157 of 1992. The provision of African swine fever is an intervention for health purposes which cannot be linked to recreational recreational activities such as hunting or wildlife control carried out by private citizens. That's what you want to get to, and that's what we've been working on for years. The measure under consideration provides that the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces adopt a regional plan of emergency measures for the management, control and eradication of African swine fever in farmed pigs and wild boar species not subject to strategic environmental assessment (VAS) or environmental impact assessment (Vinca). This is already the first, absolutely negative, derogation that goes against the environment and against the strategies of a sustainable economy that we should instead strive for. The measure allows the automatic use of bloody and generalised measures to eradicate the population of wild boars throughout the national territory not only in areas infected with African swine fever, but also, by referring to a ministerial decree, only the use of bio-safety measures for pig farms even in infected areas. The decree in question also does not adequately consider intensive farms, on which instead it should be reasoned, because from the point of view of the health risk we know very well that these methods of breeding must be revised, and not even the productive activity, given the undeniable potential of the emergence and spread of diseases that the pig factories of industrial type represent. There is therefore a disproportion between the measures envisaged, which is even more evident in view of the provisions of European Regulation 429 of 2016, which provides that the measures are necessary and proportionate to counter the spread of the disease. The decree-law therefore does not meet these requirements and is not in line with Article 9 of the Constitution or Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on animal welfare. We have tried to make up for this with our colleagues. I repeat that regional plans must be used for the eradication of African swine fever by ecological methods, such as fences, and not for the eradication of wild boar. Therefore, that part of the measure is already regulated by Law No 157 of 1992. As stated by ISPRA in the hearings, the considerable resistance of the virus in the environment means that the disease continues to circulate for years even in wild boar populations with very low density (equal to one wild boar every square kilometre), obviously this where it was decided to eradicate the disease by decreasing the population of wild boars, as it is written in the decree-law. In support of what ISPRA has said, in Eastern Europe, where direct measures have been taken to reduce the wild boar population, the results have been disastrous, to the point of increasing the spread of the virus. On the other hand, in Belgium and the Czech Republic, African swine fever has been eradicated exclusively through ecological methods, consisting of the fence of the infected area. That is the difference and, therefore, it is in this direction that I think we are going and will go with the implementing decree in relation to what is indicated in the operating manual for the management of swine fever, thus allowing the disease to take its course. Then, as for whether animals should be killed or not, we know that swine fever kills them when they are isolated and the virus is not transmitted, so we will have to put them on the alert, just to remember what we have done and we are doing with Covid-19. In the case of wild animals, European and Italian legislation does not show any obligation to implement cruel measures; operations such as killing must necessarily take place within the framework of a specific plan and not before the identification of an infected area (I hope this will be done) from which it will be possible to depopulate. So I'm thinking of a buffer area around the infected area, with surveillance to relieve the pressure of the infected area. The amendments tabled with colleagues from the Mixed Group (Paola Nugnes, Matteo Mantero and others) are in line with what has been said to solve these problems; in part they have been approved - and I would like to remind them - while others have been rejected. The Regional Plan for Urgent Interventions should contain as a priority technical bio-safety parameters for pig farms articulated by type of production and method of rearing or holding. The ecological methods must include restrictions on hunting, otherwise we know very well that the virus can spread because of mobility: the animals run away because they try to defend themselves, when there is a gun that reaches them. We have ruled out the use of control systems for wild boar species on an annual basis, regardless of the presence of epidemics taking place in the territory concerned. I would also like to say that we must not derogate from the strategic environmental assessment, nor from the environmental impact assessment, and that precisely we must go towards the fence and the identification of infected areas, thanks also to the contribution of ISPRA. Otherwise, we really risk our territory and our environment and then don't solve the problem. I hope that colleagues and all of us can manage this health emergency in an appropriate way, keeping the hunt aside, which is something that should not be in this decree at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u34	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u35	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the decree to eradicate African swine fever in wild boars and prevent its spread in farmed pigs, we finally give a response to the farmers and businesses, which have already been severely tested by the repercussions of the Covid-19 and the tragic situation in Ukraine. The purpose of this decree is to safeguard animal health, the national production system and exports. This is a real emergency, which risks hitting important sectors of our economy hard. Although swine fever is not dangerous to human health, it is contagious and lethal to animals, in particular to pigs, a sector of excellence in the Italian livestock landscape. The pig sector, in fact, represents one of the main segments of the Italian agro-food industry, both for the production of live animals and for the induced of the processing industry. From the data of the Institute of Services for the Food Market (Ismea), in Italy there are 32,000 farms and over 3,000 companies producing elaborates. Farming generates a value of more than 3 billion euros, equal to 5.7% of the total value of national agriculture. The turnover of the industry, on the other hand, is over €8 billion. A characteristic of the national pig chain is the strong specialization in the salumery sector, to which 70% of the slaughters are destined, and the high incidence of the productions with geographical indication, to which 70% of the Italian animals are destined. In this sector too, therefore, the absolute excellence of our Italian agri-food industry is evident. Although production is mainly concentrated in some areas of the North, regions such as Umbria, Marche and Basilicata are also very interested. The regulatory system is confused, but in the face of this emergency it is imperative to take extraordinary measures, which give certain answers to farmers and dictate guidelines also for tourists, hunters and operators of various types. It is therefore not possible to assume self-righteous positions, which are likely to bring thousands of companies and families to their knees. The experience, also that of the Covid-19, has unfortunately taught us that the increasing promiscuity between wild environments and anthropized environments can cause serious damage to the balance between the natural system and the human system. It is from this lesson that we must move, in order to ensure the human and natural well-being and the keeping of our productive fabrics. This is the most sensible approach to tackling the crisis. It is a crisis that affects not only Italy, but several European countries. African swine fever, in fact, first appeared in Eastern Europe, since 2014, and then spread to other EU countries, including Belgium and Germany, until it arrived in our territory. For the moment, the cases are mostly concentrated in Liguria and Piedmont, but it certainly does not help the high presence of wild boars in the agricultural and urban territories of many areas of Italy, also in our Capital. For this reason, we at Forza Italia believe that the approach of the decree, which allocates EUR 10 million, can provide a valuable tool to stem and eradicate this scourge that has struck our primary sector, already put to the test by many other problems. In particular, the fence strategy for over 250 kilometers serves precisely to avoid those contacts with wild animals and has already proved to be an effective solution in other European countries, as testified also in the hearing at the Health and Health Commission by authoritative experts who reported the progress made in Belgium and the Czech Republic. Among other biosafety interventions, in addition to the killing and destruction of infected animals, facilities are provided to manage dead animals, filter areas and regular and capillary disinfection. It will now be up to the regions to draw up a regional plan for the management, control and eradication of the plague. In order to better coordinate the necessary enforcement actions, the appointment of an extraordinary Commissioner has been rightly envisaged, who will have the task of monitoring all the measures applied to prevent and limit the spread of infection and who will also use the bodies of the National Health Service and the offices responsible for the prevention, eradication and control of animal diseases. With a view to a careful management of public expenditure at a delicate time such as today's, the clause of financial invariance has been envisaged, precisely so as not to burden the state's coffers further. Forza Italia, however, has been actively involved in putting concrete measures against this emergency and will therefore vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u37	Mr President, I am sorry to have to remind you once again that prevention and control must be a precondition to avoid the cyclical repetition of problems which give a concentration of interdependence between health (both human and animal) and economics. Not only that, but everything must be dealt with in a supranational dimension, as our bill no. 1660, of two years ago, had imagined. We hoped that in the PNRR, as well as in other circumstances, it would serve as an inspiration and that, at least in connection with the order - in implementation of the motion adopted unanimously in June last year, as the Government will surely remember - there would be evidence of this. No follow-up can be found. This is another missed opportunity to strengthen veterinary prevention and to relaunch public and private veterinary health. Public and private health must be accompanied by the prediction of the corporate veterinarian as a promoter of the culture of the government of the risks and the reduction of the use of unnecessary drugs, for example antibiotics, which has recorded, thanks to the category, an important decrease in the inappropriateness, estimated at over 30 percent, even if the way to get rid of the antimicrobial resistance is still long. We must imagine that healthy animal husbandry, which is also based on the principles of animal welfare, will have an impact on the quality of products intended for human consumption, which inevitably affects our individual and collective health. [[Applause]] , closing the circle with the growth of the gross domestic product. We must overcome the logic of intervening only with omelets made, investing adequately in human and instrumental resources to ensure structural conditions to deal with the emergence of animal diseases and, above all, to prevent them. [[Applause]] This is not the first time that we are in the presence of swine fever; every time the bill is very salty. Let us make sure that the measure in conversion is accompanied by the decision to finally give way to the legislative resolution that we have promoted and that, like 12a The Commission, in the light of the examination of the amendment phase of the decree-law under discussion, has seen the convergence in the drafting of a single text aimed at reforming veterinary public health, abandoning the ideologies that have certainly contributed so far to delaying the adoption of an organisational model of prevention, evaluation and control, capable of becoming a possible reference at European level. It is a model specifically dedicated to the government of endemic and pandemic risks of zoonous origin, capable of enhancing all producers, not only Italians, who are equipped with higher standards of prevention, biosafety, quality and traceability, gives legitimacy to its recognition as common rules of guarantee in the implementation of the new European legislation on animal health, for the welfare of the consumer; changing the paradigm of the protection of Italian agro-food with a system of evaluation and control able to demonstrate on the field the superiority of our products not only on the organoleptic level (which is recognized us), but also in terms of effective protection and promotion of human health and of the fight against communicable diseases and not, given our way of addressing and solving related problems according to objective and measurable indicators; avoiding any self-referentiality in proving conformity to optimal parameters of prevention, biosafety and health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u38	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the outbreak of swine fever is rife in the forests and hinterland of Liguria and Piedmont, as has already been the case in Germany and Eastern Europe. To date there are 74 confirmed positives, of which 42 in Piedmont and 32 in Liguria. Immediately after the first boar was found dead due to swine fever, on 7 January, a Crisis Unit was set up in the Ministry of Health to manage a situation that was not easy at all. The risk is not to be able to stem a virus that, if it gets out of hand, could put in crisis the entire sector of the processing of pork and meat products. The fear of veterinarians and, above all, operators in the pig sector is that the virus arrives in the farms and at that point, even if only with an infected head detected, would really be a disaster, because the direct consequence is the ban on the export of meat, but also cured meats, from the whole of Italy. Countries like Japan and Cuba have already banned imports of Italian products. Therefore, there is a strong concern about the image damage that this situation can create, becoming also an instrument of economic speculation - we know how unpredictable this aspect is - towards our territory, risking unfairly hitting our farmers who lead their farms to the best, with high bio-safety standards, even if so much should still be done for the attention to animal welfare, intended as distance and care of these farms, and for its protection. The disease is highly infectious - fortunately only among the suidae - and the transmission can take place by direct contact, even by eating meat waste infected, transferring the virus for tens of miles through feces and urine. Then there is the possibility that the same man will become an unconscious vector, through any object contaminated by the virus that could carry with him, with clothing, on the vehicles or on the tools he uses. Hence the ban in infected areas to generate movements of animals, as well as the ban on hunting and all activities involving movements, including means. Obviously any traditional method of hunting that involves the use of dogs or other tools that can be difficult to sanitize and therefore it could hardly contain the transmission of the virus, as the same has a good resistance in the external environment and can remain viable up to a hundred days, surviving inside the cold cuts for a few months and resisting to the high temperatures. Hence the urgency of the measure that we will vote today, on a proposal from ministers Patuanelli and Hope, made necessary to define and quantify the measures useful to eradicate African swine fever in wild boars and to prevent infection among pigs for breeding, in order to protect exports, the national production system and the entire chain. It is a race against time: it is necessary to act promptly to stem the disease and avoid the trespassing in Lombardy, Emilia, Veneto and Tuscany, where there are almost all pig farms in Italy. A rough estimate made by the Ministry of Health and the Food Market Services Institute (ISMEA) shows that, in the case of compensation for the slaughter of animals, resources of about 1,442 billion euros would be needed if the virus arrived in these regions. Professor Manuel Vizcaino, expert at the World Health Organization and director of the reference laboratory for African swine fever in Sardinia (the region that has already addressed the problem), stated at the hearing in the Commission that the situation is really very difficult and the only possibility available is the control of the virus through three actions to be carried out with care: early prevention, the containment of infected air and the reduction of the population of wild boars. This, in summary, is what in fact will be indispensable to bring to completion. Hence the use of fences to confine wild boars and precise and punctual methods to contain the number, which are outside the traditional hunting, which unfortunately has not been able to contain it in all these years. Many scholars, in fact, confirm that it is rather harmful to fauna and often facilitates the prolification of pigs. There have been so many pig feeds, so the regions have failed to manage wildlife, which is now out of hand. Surely everyone, between farmers and citizens, is alarmed by the number that grows to an extent; it must therefore be put in place a containment of this number, but through scientific methods. The discourse therefore goes beyond the discipline of hunting, because in this case we speak of qualified personnel for the selection: the quantities and the modalities of intervention must be planned and everything will be modulated on already defined plans. Early prevention is therefore necessary and we must act urgently. In the decree-law it is expected that each Region will adopt a plan of interventions that also includes the reconnaissance by Province of the consistency of the species, the indication of the ecological methods, the areas of direct intervention, the modalities, the times and the annual objectives, which are important. It is necessary, therefore, to create a road map - as they say - and to be really punctual in the timing. The measure entrusts for one year to a Commissioner (to be extended for another year) the task of coordinating all the actions of the plan necessary for the containment and eradication of the virus (not wild boars), where it is present, i.e. in the reference regions. This plan must be adopted in accordance with what has already been tested in Sardinia, on which the European Union has given no objection, in accordance with the PSA Emergency Manual of April 2021 and after the opinion of ISPRA. All this will have to be carried out with great care, using the provincial guards and the persons authorized to hunt with selective methods and under the supervision of the Command of the forest, environmental and agri-food units of the Carabinieri weapon, as well as of the competent ASL. Zootechnical companies will have to equip themselves with areas for the sanitization of means and people, as well as fences to protect the farms from any possible contact with the outside. All this is done with respect for animal health and balance, which is necessary for healthy biodiversity, to which we must strive. Our attention must be directed precisely to the protection of ecosystems and to the right balance. This intervention wants to go in this direction, also in anticipation of future approaches to what is required by the productive world regarding the proliferation of wildlife. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u40	Colleagues, having regard to the request for suspension from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. for a group meeting and having only 10 minutes, I propose that the rapporteurs' replies be postponed, if I agree, to the resumption of work. Not making any comments, so it remains established. I therefore suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 1.04 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u43	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, I have already informed the Group Leaders and President Alberti Casellati himself that our group meeting has unfortunately started late and is still under way. Having a little more time to finish, if possible, I would ask for a suspension of work until 2:00 p.m., apologizing to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u46	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I believe that it is unacceptable that, at this point, after the work done in the Commissions meeting, where we discussed the measure and examined the amendments, there should be problems relating to the Movimento 5 Star Group for preliminary rulings and - this is the truth - not on matters of substance such as to interrupt the work of this House one more hour. [[Applause]] Since there are no questions for a preliminary ruling that prevent us from leaving immediately with the examination of the amendments, I would ask you not to proceed with the suspension of the work, but to continue with the examination of the amendments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u47	If there is opposition only to the Colleagues of the Brothers of Italy Group, I would give as accepted the request by the Parent Company of the Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u50	DE VECCHIS (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, we would like to continue our work and move on to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u53	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I am asking for a group meeting to continue, which is essential in order to be able to continue with the work in the Commission which has not been completed. There is still much work to be done in the Commissions meeting on the amendments. I believe that the possibility of holding a group meeting has never been denied to anyone. I have already said, among other things, that I have already informed the Heads of Group and that there is the agreement of President Casellati. I therefore ask you to continue the meeting and then resume the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u54	Notice the Assembly that the request of Senator Castellone for the Movimento 5 Star Group was also made to the President of the Senate, who gave the willingness to bring it together. I have the opposition of the Brothers of Italy Group and the Senator Paragon Group. If there are no other dissenting speeches, I would welcome Senator Castellone's request, according to the direction shared by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u57	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would invite the House to express a moment of condolence because this night Maria Romana De Gasperi, daughter of Alcide De Gasperi, an extraordinary woman who has honoured the Republic and the institutions with her life. The House has already done so this morning and I believe it is important that we all gather because this personality - among other things, has left written testimonies, having also been close collaborator of the father, of all the events that have led to the reconstruction of our country - honored Italy and the memory of the great father that we all recognize builder of our Republic. I would ask you, President, to honour the memory of this woman with a minute's silence from the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u58	The Presidency joins his words, President Casini. I know that the President also intended to call on the House to observe a moment of silence and such an important memory, as you anticipated. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence, which will then be renewed in the presence of the President. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u61	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would also like to add a very brief reminder to Mr Casini's and his words.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u62	Senator Zanda, I do not want to interrupt you at all, but surely the House will have a moment for memories and I believe that your words deserve everyone's attention. Therefore, if you like, I will give you the next word, when a moment will be dedicated to the memory of Maria Romana De Gasperi. I suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. [[Comments.]] We have been granted by the President, I have gathered your opinions, the other majority leaders have given their assent, so I suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. [[Comments]] I have had a conversation with the President and all the majority leaders who have asked a political group to hold a one-hour meeting, a request that has never been denied. It seems to me that the House is already emptying, so I would ask the Members of the Brothers of Italy to allow me to continue the work, as agreed with the President. The sitting shall be suspended until 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.12 a.m. and resumed at 14.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u63	I call the rapporteur, Senator Biti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise briefly to thank you for the debate that took place this morning in this House. In so many speeches - I cannot say in all, but certainly in so many - we rapporteurs have grasped the interest and above all the understanding of the emergency state that leads us to have to approve the measure quickly. Perhaps we are already a little late, as said by Senator La Pietra and other senators of Brothers of Italy. Once the measure has arrived in the Senate, all necessary hearings have been held. As I said this morning, there have been many professionals and representatives of bodies that we have audited, because it was necessary - the amendments and the same text of the measure, as approved in the Commission, testify - to hold hearings to find the best solution, certainly not perfect, but perfect and improved. In the meantime, however, tonight we will proceed - I hope in the best way - to the conversion of a decree-law that allows us to work who now has to manage this very difficult emergency. Many interventions have been made on the merits of the measure, some others a little less. I do not want to refer to colleagues or colleagues specifically, but I invite everyone to remain on the subject of the decree-law and, therefore, of the infectious swine fever disease and everything that must be done at this time to delimit it to precise boundaries and erage it where it is present. We cannot afford - I repeat - to lose millions on the pig supply chain, if - God forbid - this disease should be spread. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the work they have done in the Commission. I would like to thank the Government and the Budget Committee, which has also contributed in the last few hours. I thank the Undersecretary Sileri and the Undersecretary Bini, who have always accompanied us in these days of discussion. We really hope to arrive at a result that can be seen perfect, but certainly good.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u65	I call the rapporteur, Senator Bergesio.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have spoken in general debate so far. I would remind everyone that this measure, issued on 17 February 2022, involved four Ministries in expressing their assessments in the Commission (the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the Ministry of Health). The measure has been examined by two committees (the Agriculture Commission and the Health and Health Commission) and I believe that the work has been done in a short time (I also say this to my friend Senator La Pietra). In forty-three days we brought the measure to the Chamber, after having audited about twenty subjects (in total there were 45 organisations and associations that had asked to be audited). We have taken back everyone's contributions, very carefully. This is a sensitive issue, and I believe that this decree-law will be schooled in future measures, both as regards African swine fever and avian influenza. I thank Senator Vallardi, who mentioned a motion for a resolution that we have ready to bring to the House; the containment of wildlife in our country is an important issue, also raised by Senator La Pietra. Senator Lunesu has told us about the experience she has experienced in Sardinia, in order to treasure it. We note this and have also taken note of it before in the Commission. Senator Zuliani has invited us not to take more walkways on stages of large organizations, such as Coldiretti, Confagricoltura, CIA (union organizations), but to proceed with measures that are able to solve the problem. Senator Fregolent reminded us of the damage to the supply chain, inviting us to act immediately. As we have said before, it is over 20 million euros a week that the supply chain is undergoing; a crazy collapse between sales and production prices. On the other hand there are costs, which are not only the costs of African swine fever, but they are the costs of raw materials, they are the energy costs, they are also and above all the costs of work combined with all the other economic factors that today weigh on the breeding, the agricultural productions, the 25,000 companies that in our country produce pigs. Senator De Carlo spoke of a vision too urbanized of a rural Italy. It is true, I agree with him: this is an important issue. But, on the other hand, the issue of vaccines must also be seen on this issue, if possible, as well as on the issue of avian influenza, which is another scourge of our country. We also listened to Senator Boldrini, who spoke about this sharing. It is true that we wanted to give the Commissioner even more power, not to put the regions in the background, but to make them work in coordination. Finally, I believe that a good text has come out, because the Commissioner will be able to work in close coordination with the economic resources we have given ourselves. Senator De Bonis reminded us that positions must not be outrageous. It is true, because, if we had started from the concept - I say also to Senator Crucioli - that this measure would have had to solve all the problems related to breeding, agriculture, wildlife, the lack of collection of tourism, the costs of managing the local authorities (a sort of omnibus measure), we would not have succeeded in doing so. There will be other measures that will be able to solve these problems. Senator Cantù spoke to us about the reform of veterinary public health, a subject which I believe should be put on the agenda of this House. You know that veterinarians in other countries of Europe depend not on the Ministry of Health, but on the Ministry of Agriculture. I believe that a reflection must be made on this issue, above all starting from the concept of relationship and above all from the type of professional relationship between the veterinarian, the breeder and all public health, which is very dear to this country. We have also listened to our Leader in the Committee on Agriculture, whom I thank, Senator Naturale, to talk about a shared path that has been important. We have done everything we can and I also thank the Budget Commission, Mr Pesco and the Commissioners for the work they have done. They have succeeded both in a proposal for an important amendment that we will see later, Amendment 2.4, and Amendments 1.60 and 1.61 to take them back at the last session of the Budget Committee, allowing us to clarify a point that was particularly dear to Senator Bruzzone, but also to other senators. I am talking about the identification not only of the provincial guards, but also, in some regions such as Liguria, where the provincial guards no longer exist, of the regional guards. In the end, with the term "local police" - as the Undersecretary has explained - we have resumed everything. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u67	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible to propose amendments 1.68, 1.71, 1.72, 1.95, 1.104, 1.105, 1.107, 1.0.3 and the agenda G1.1, due to the non-materiality of the content of the decree-laws. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u68	Madam President, I would like to explain amendment 1.26, which I particularly care about, which we also discussed in the Commission, but which did not get the favourable opinion. This is an issue that we should deal with gradually: the amendment refers to paragraph 1 of Article 1, where the decree-law expressly provides that, in order to prevent and contain the spread of African swine fever on national territory, each region shall make regional plans. It contains a number of indications on the prevention plans and we are not talking about the areas where there are outbreaks. Amendment 1.26 also proposes that action be taken in the plans to indicate that certain hunting methods are excluded, which, in our view, are likely to increase the mobility of wild boar and, therefore, the possibility of spreading swine fever. We therefore ask that forms of hunting be prohibited such as hunting, batting, shooting, which are some types of wild boar hunting that - as you obviously know who is expert - increase the mobility of the wild boar population and, therefore, the spread of the plague. The opinion in the Commission was not opposed, but I hope that, in addressing the plans, the regions will realise that these forms of prevention must also be put in place. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u69	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u70	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 1.5 (text 2), 1.14 (text 3), 1.33 (text 2), 1.35, 1.41 (text 2), 1.60 (text 2), 1.27 (text 3), 1.78 (text 2), 1.2000 and 1.3000. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u73	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I may have misunderstood, but it seems to me that the rapporteur has given a negative opinion on Amendments Nos 1.42 and 1.43, whereas the Commission had received a favourable opinion. Either I was wrong or you should understand the position. I repeat: on the file of amendments in the Commission I had written that the opinion was favourable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1.41 was adopted in favour, while amendment 1.43 was opposed. THE PIETRA (FdI). That's right, ma'am. Amendment 1.42 was also rejected by the rapporteur. But the Commission had been given a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u74	Senator Biti, perhaps Amendment No 1.41 incorporates Amendments Nos 1.42 and 1.43?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u75	Yes, Mr President, Amendment 1.41 (text 2). We have also rebuilt this from a comparison with the rapporteur, Mr Bergesio, and Mr Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u76	Senator La Pietra, will you withdraw them if they are absorbed by Amendment 1.41 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u77	Mr President, it does not appear to me that they have been absorbed. We have tabled reworded amendments as requested by the Commission, with a favourable opinion. But I'm sticking.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u80	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I understand that Amendment 1.61 remains alive. It is to be turned into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has been withdrawn and transformed into agenda G1.61. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 1.61 is not one of the withdrawn and I would like to turn it into an agenda, the text of which has also been deposited. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, that's the way it is: it has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u83	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, Amendment 1,34 was identical to the text of another amendment and, therefore, had been withdrawn in the Commission, but it was nevertheless included in the dossier. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you're pulling it? NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I shall withdraw it at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u86	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1.86.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u89	PIRRO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to reword Amendment No 1.37 in accordance with Amendment No 1.33 (text 2), otherwise it would be foreclosed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1.37, reworded in the same way as amendment 1.33 (text 2), will therefore be voted together with the amendment. PIRRO (M5S). On the other hand, with regard to Amendment No 1,103, on which we have already stated our intention to turn it into an agenda, we have prepared a rewording which includes a second commitment for the Government to assess the possibility of providing refreshments for the agritourism sector as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u90	Senator, we'll consider it when we move on to the agenda. Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.5 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2 has been withdrawn. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.4 and 1.6 have been withdrawn. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Mantero and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.8 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators, identical to amendments 1.10, tabled by Senator Nugnes, and 1.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.14 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.13 and 1.15 are therefore incorporated, with the exception of Amendments 1,17, 1,18 and 1,19. Amendment 1.16 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Nugnes, identical to amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.25 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.28 and 1.29 have been withdrawn. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.32 and 1.34 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions, identical to amendment 1.37 (text 2), tabled by the Senators Naturale and Pirro. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.35, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, identical to Amendments 1,39, tabled by Senator Mantero and other Senators, and 1,40, tabled by Senator Nugnes, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.41 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,43, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.45 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.47 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,48, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendments 1,49, tabled by Senator Nugnes, and 1,50, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.51 and 1.52 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.55, 1.56 and 1.57 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,58, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.60 (text 2), tabled by Senators Pirro and Naturale, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.61 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1.61 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.62 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.64, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.65 and 1.66 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.27 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.67, 1.69, 1.70, 1.73, 1.75, 1.76 and 1.77 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1.68, 1.71 and 1.72 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.78 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments Nos 1,79 and 1,81 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u93	PIRRO (M5S). Madam President, I am sorry, but with Amendment No 1.27 (text 3) the identical Amendment No 1.74 (text 3) was also to be put to the vote and it seems to me that it did not say so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was adopted together with amendment 1.27 (text 3). PIRRO (M5S). I have not heard her say that she is identical to amendment 1.74 (text 3) and that is why I have been concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u94	I did not say that, but it was voted and adopted as identical to amendment 1.27 (text 3). Amendments 1.82 and 1.83 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.84, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.85 and 1.86 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1, 2000 tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.89 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1.89. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.90, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.91, 1.92 and 1.93 are withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,3000, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.94 tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.95 is unacceptable. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.96 tabled by Senator Leonardo and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.98 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.99 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,101, 1,102 and 1,103 were withdrawn and converted into agendas G1,101, G1,102 and G1,103 respectively. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.97, tabled by Senator Mantero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,104, 1,105 and 1,107 are unacceptable. Amendment 1,106 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u97	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, as you know, we have withdrawn Amendment No 1,102 and tabled the agenda G1,102. However, I would ask you to be allowed to submit a rewording, because there is a mistake in the text that we had deposited.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u98	The Presidency authorizes it to do so and asks the rapporteurs to take a look at the new text.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u101	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, we are presenting a reformulation of order G1.103, which has already been handed over to the rapporteurs and to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u102	The Presidency takes note of this. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u103	Mr President, I would like to express my views on all the agendas, with the exception of the agenda G1.102 (text 2), which has just arrived and on which I need the time to see it. The G1.1 agenda is not available. The opinion was in favour of the G1.89 and G1.101 agendas. The opinion was also in favour of the G1.103 agenda (text 2). The opinion was suspended on the agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u104	I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda, so that the rapporteurs can give time to speak on the agenda G1.102 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u105	Mr President, we have pointed out that the G1.1 agenda is not available. On the agenda, Mr G1.89, the opinion was in favour of a rewording. In the undertaking, when it is said: "to find, in the first measure useful for the examination of Parliament, the resources" is written, instead, "more resources than those already allocated by the Government by Article 26 of Decree-Law No 4 of 2022, if any." With this rewording, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u106	I ask Senator Zuliani if he accepts this reformulation. ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.89 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u107	On the agenda, Mr G1,101, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u108	I ask Senator Nugnes if he accepts this reformulation. NUGNES (Mixed). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. In the meantime, I would ask the rapporteurs to give their opinion on the agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u109	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u110	Mr President, on the agenda G1.102 (text 2) the Government is in favour of considering the possibility of
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u111	I ask Senator De Petris if she accepts this reformulation. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u112	Finally, Mr President, the opinion is in favour of the G1.103 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u113	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 have been withdrawn. Amendment 1.0.3 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u114	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 2.5 and favours amendment 2.1 (text 2). The opinion was opposed to amendments 2.6, 2.8, 2.10, 2.12, 2.13 and 2.14. The opinion was in favour of amendment 2.4 (text 3) identical to amendments 2.37 and 2.38, and opposed to amendment 2.16. The opinion was also in favour of amendment 2,100 and opposed to amendments 2,19, 2,20, 2,22, 2,23, 2,25 and 2,26. The opinion is in favour of Amendments 2.31 (text 2) and 2,200 and against Amendments 2.29 and 2.34.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u115	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur. I do not think that we have been given an opinion on the agenda resulting from the transformation of Senator Bruzzone's amendment 1.61.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u116	It was a favourable opinion when we turned the amendment into an agenda. We asked Senator Bruzzone if he would accept the proposal for a change to the agenda, which I considered accepted. Are you asking for a change? Mr BINI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, I propose that the agenda be reworded using the formula: PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bruzzone, do you accept the proposal for an advanced reformulation? BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.61 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.6 is therefore excluded. Amendment 2.7 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.9 has been withdrawn. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.10 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.11 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u119	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I wonder what is the criterion by which decision-makers can identify the animals to be killed. Amendment 2.13 proposes that the animals to be slaughtered should be those defined as infected only in the presence of proven diagnosis following laboratory and instrumental analyses, because otherwise the maximum discretion is granted, in fact giving a limitless gift to hunters, who probably waited for nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Berutti, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.19, 2.20, 2.22, 2.23, 5.4, 5.6 and 5.7 are therefore excluded. Amendment 2.15 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.16, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.17 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.18, 2.21 and 2.24 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Zaffini and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.25. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,27 and 2,28 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.31 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.30, 2.32 and 2.33 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.34, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,200, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.35, 2.0.1 and 2.0.2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u121	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u122	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u123	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Berutti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.2, 4.0.1, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.5 and Tit. 1 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of coordinating proposal No 1, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u124	Mr President, I am in favour of coordinating proposal No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u125	Mr President, I am in favour of coordinating proposal No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u126	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the coordinating proposal No 1, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u129	[[Brusio]] We are waiting for a suitable environment to be created in this House for Senator Parente to intervene. I would ask those who are leaving this House to do so quickly and those who remain to lower their voices. Please, Senator Parente. Parent (IV-PSI). Madam President, African swine fever is a highly infectious disease that only affects wild boars in Italy and is of the genotype 2 group, different from the Sardinian virus, as many colleagues have said. Since 2014, African swine fever has occurred in Eastern countries and is currently present in Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia, Greece, Lithuania, Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria. In Belgium it appeared in 2018 and 2020, thanks to a tight government plan and targeted investment interventions, it was eradicated. Unfortunately, in Germany, it hit pig farms in Saxony and on the border with Poland. In Italy, as we know, it was identified in Piedmont on 7 January 2022 for the identification of a carcass of wild boar. Fortunately, it is not transferable to man, but it could represent the most serious threat to the pig sector and to the fine DOP productions of typical Italian salumery, as the rapporteur Bergesio said well. We are in the presence of an enormous economic risk for companies operating in the sector, which, in my opinion, is even heavier than the effects of Covid. African swine fever is 100% lethal, that is to say that wild boars die almost all within 3-7 days, at most 10 days after the onset of symptoms. Unfortunately, this virus remains vital even after the animal's death. In fact, carcasses are still infected and able to transmit the virus for a long time. It is important, therefore, thanks to this decree-law, to report the presence of wild boar carcasses on the territory, so that they can be immediately analysed by the competent veterinary services. A warning for everyone, even for citizens and citizens, is not to abandon waste, which could be a source of attraction for wild boars, and not to administer contaminated kitchen waste (it is also a practice prohibited by European regulations). The report accompanying this decree-law also states that the human factor is the vehicle for indirect transmission of the disease. Unfortunately, man has responsibilities: we have altered 75% of terrestrial ecosystems and 66% of marine ecosystems, with consequences that are still difficult to weigh. This alteration has several causes, but one prevails over all: agri-food needs. Of course feeding a global population is a great effort for our planet, but often our eating habits do not help it. The excessive consumption of food of animal origin, intensive farming and a deteriorated relationship for wildlife have a significant impact on ecosystems and on our health: the rapporteur, Catherine Biti, said this with competence. In Italy the number of wild boars has grown out of proportion, if we think that they have arrived in our cities, from Rome to Genoa. The increase in the number of wild boars makes the encounter with animals raised more and more likely, so it is true that since 2021 the Ministry of Health has already intervened with two documents aimed at the control of swine fever. In time, the Government came to issue Decree-Law No. 9 of 2022, which, as many colleagues have said, is based on two main issues: the Regions must draw up plans to block infection and an extraordinary commissioner is established, who has the task of verifying the regularity of the killing and destruction of infected animals, while hunters, farmers and all those who had to come across wounded or deceased boars are required to report cases to the veterinary service of the ASL. We have done a good job in the Commission and, in the course of the conversion of this text, we have strengthened it in particular in the area of fence resources, in order to prevent wild boars from leaving infected areas, and by providing for the possibility of derogation and simplification of the rules. These requests came from the many hearings, especially from the regions, which we carried out in the Commission. We have also given more instruments of action to the Extraordinary Commissioner. Basically, we did a good job. I also thank, in the first place, the speakers Caterina Biti and Giorgio Bergesio and the undersecretaries Bini and Sileri, for that mediation work that many, colleagues and colleagues have evoked. In fact, at first our positions seemed to clash, but we found an important mediation. My Group will vote in favour of this measure, with a reassurance also to economic operators: we will not give up, we will not let down our guard and if we need other interventions, Parliament is ready to speak with the Government so that this can happen. Finally, as from Covid, we must learn an important lesson also from this terrible disaster from which comes a warning for us: our lifestyle often causes alterations of ecosystems, which unfortunately end up coming back against us. Humans, animals and the environment are three actors whose events are closely linked to each other and we, men and women who live in this time, have a duty to find a sustainable balance. For those who believe, we have a duty to guard creation, but we all have a duty to guard the planet as we have found it. Finding a balance is our mission as men and women who live this time of ours. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u132	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I am actually announcing the vote of abstention by Brothers of Italy. It is not so much a recognition of the substance, of the method, of the work done by the rapporteurs, by Mr La Pietra and of the work done in the Commission. This should be the rule, it should be what we always do: the measure comes from the government, as always it makes water from all sides (because this is a government of people too different, that they do not agree even if they take coffee or decaf, so there are measures "bag-of-bone", as we would say in journalistic jargon) and Parliament, with its amending activity, does its job, that is, improves the text and comes out a better measure. That would be the rule, but, as we unfortunately know, it has been quite straightforward, with repeated votes, in which the question of trust has been raised. In fact, I would like to point out that there are very rare acts on which you can work. Compared to this and also in part to the contents that have emerged, the decision of the Brothers of Italy Group is to abstain on this measure. It is clear that, in relation to this, we cannot fail to highlight the enormous shortcomings of this measure, first of all the data of resources. In politics, weighing the importance of a measure takes place by assessing the resources that are allocated to it. In this regard, the resources that the amending activity has managed to increase, added to the resources provided by the Government, are really minimal and they allow easy to understand the degree of attention of the Government to the problem that, as has been observed by all, is enormous and weighs on the domestic product, that from some parts has been evaluated, between direct and indirect (i.e. extended product), near the three points of GDP. This is an absolutely serious thing because, if the quality leap of this virus were to happen and pass to the domestic pig - I remember and it has already been said that it is a very dangerous virus because it survives in the carcasses and does not have a vaccine - for us it would really be a very serious debâcle. The second limit of the measure that comes out of this branch of Parliament is the time factor. We all know that the time factor is obvious compared to immediate measures to combat the spread, I do not say eradication (which will be more difficult and is beyond to come). Compared to the detection of the presence of the virus in the first carcass, months have passed and this is very serious. Mr La Pietra said this: the problem does not concern the working time - I say to the rapporteur - of the measure in Parliament; those were appropriate, useful and - I repeat - we are appreciating the method and the work done. The problem is the time when we reacted, the reaction times of the government, of the country system, to a problem that was widely expected. The swine fever is endemic in Sardinia, even if of different strain, but above all it was announced, so much so that - as my colleague La Pietra recalled - already almost a year ago had been proposed a deal assigned to the Commission that, if it had found space and attention, it would probably give the country system the opportunity to adapt and prepare for the emergency that was coming and that has arrived today. 15.10 p.m. (ZAFFINI follow). The third consideration, which is perplexed and also sufficiently disconcerted, concerns the method of downloading the Regions. It is not possible, as happened with the Covid and in many other precedents, that whenever this multicolored government, rainbow (so you are happy), harlequin, can not find a synthesis even on absolutely important and serious subjects, there is always the escape way to say that the Regions will think about it, in the sense that they will do what they want and believe. It is a complete discharge and it is serious because, beyond the thousand considerations of merit that we could make, the immediate result that can be achieved and that will certainly be achieved is a diversity of regulations and disorientational plans with respect to the emergency and conditions, for example, of the venatory withdrawal. There will be a migration of the venatory exercise, because there will be regions that will allow to do some things and others, of different orientation or of different weighing of certain ideological positions - it is easy to define them - which instead will not allow to do things even absolutely normal. Therefore, beyond the ugliness of this posture, which sees the Government each time discharge on the Regions the responsibility to take difficult and probably sometimes even unpopular measures, there is a serious problem of coordination, that this text is not that it does not solve, it does not even address. Who will coordinate the plans of the Regions? Not the Commissioner, because it is specifically planned that the Commissioner should do only what concerns the emergency in the red areas. In view of the emergency, he will also do so outside the red zone, as Mr Bruzzone tells me and I take it as a good thing, having studied the measure better than I do: can the Commissioner deal with all this? Is it likely that the Commissioner will coordinate the regions, for example, on the activity of the hunting levy? I don't believe it. That's never gonna happen. Who will do it then? Will ISPRA (Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research) do this? God damn it! Who does that? Someone can do this, for example, within the framework of the State-Regions Conference, but this figure must be identified, because it is not possible that - I repeat - those who reside in a region bordering another Region find themselves having to deal with completely different measures, norms and regulations: there will be a general disorientation, at the expense of precisely the ability to attack the problem and to face the emergency that, I remember, is serious, very serious, very heavy. God forbid the leap of quality should happen. With regard to all this, Brothers of Italy will abstain from voting. We have helped in the Commission, as far as possible, to improve the measure. We would have liked to have done so to a greater extent, if we had found a minimum of shore, because the ideas we have presented have also been shared in a separate forum, even if then in the logic of government activity all this has been sacrificed to the logic of majority. It is clear, Mr President, that, with regard to the need to create this coordination, we will be following up with the instruments of direction, in the hope that at least this will be brought to an end. So let us welcome this method, Mr President. It does not seem to me that we have lost all this time, it does not seem to me that we have sacrificed the times of conversion of the decree, it does not seem to me that we have done anything serious. If we were able to do the same thing all the time, probably even the attitude of the Brothers of Italy Group in the Chamber could be a bit different from the dynamics and dialectic that we exchange on the occasion of the speeches in explanation of vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u135	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, we are here today to give the green light to a law to convert Decree-Law No 9 of 17 February 2022, which contains urgent measures to stop the spread of African swine fever. The measure, as my colleagues have said, is strongly awaited not only by the territories affected by the discovery of animals infected with African swine fever, but by all the territories, at least surrounding, for the risks associated with the fact that this virus can spread and contaminate productive areas of pig farms. If that were to happen, it would be devastating. I remember, just by the way, that in the North of the area concerned Northwest, namely the province of Cuneo, there are almost 1.5 million pigs and in the East, towards the provinces of Parma and Piacenza, there is at least one and a half million more. It is therefore a risk that, as the report points out, if the area of infection were to widen, would result in more than one billion potential damage to farms that could be affected. We are here to face this law of conversion with two sensations in the heart: on the one hand, the awareness that already the decree-law itself for the contents it had and the indications it gave, as well as the guidelines for the plans to be prepared and the measures to be put in place, both those for biosafety and those for all the other activities envisaged (which were not allocated resources within it), had punctual contents; on the other hand, I remember, however, that the decree support- ter, approved in recent weeks, saw 35 million resources dedicated to the interventions aimed at the damages on the companies related to this event and 15 million interventions for the safety for the biosafety of the same companies. It is therefore a measure which already had specific content and, albeit indirectly, resources to deal with them. Then there is the awareness, as many colleagues have pointed out, of having done a good job of sharing, including not belonging to the majority during the debate. I thank the speakers and the Government for the search for solutions in the concrete that always, on all points, have tried to carry on, trying to give answers to the issues and the stresses related to the need to strengthen some issues, emerged in the hearings held by the Commissions. I mention only the three main issues, linked to one of the Commissioner's role in relation to that of the Regions (important question, if we want to be operational in concrete terms); one of the role of resources, because it was necessary to have tools in order to be able to implement at least the fence and all the containment interventions; one of the regulatory clarifications that effectively make the ambitions that we put in this rule. I believe that on these three issues the text which is now being put to our attention and which we shall be voting on in a few moments will give absolutely important answers. It is certainly a positive feeling, that those who have worked on the text have all lived together. Then there is a less positive feeling, which is to have missed an important opportunity. In fact, if we are here to deal with the emergency of African swine fever, it is also because, as all the documents say and as was confirmed during the hearings, there is an excessive presence of wild boars on our territories. It has even been said very clearly that the optimal density would be around 1-1,5 head per square kilometre. We have been told in the hearings that in some territories we also reach 15 heads per square kilometre. It is therefore clear that the problem exists. I would like to remind those who have read the documents that already in the operational manual drawn up on 21 April last year, in a situation where there was not yet a feeling that we would have had this problem on the horizon, the ministerial offices had rightly drawn up a document which, given the presence of the problem throughout Europe, invited us to prevent the problems that could arise. It was also said that, in case of too high a density, it would be necessary to cut down up to 80% of the heads present, highlighted by the census. That density figure, in fact, was a triggered bomb that could explode, as in fact then happened. We are told - and we are aware of this - that the measure under discussion was aimed at tackling the emergency of African swine fever and was not usable to solve the issue of the damage caused by wild animals, in particular wild boars, in agriculture, road accidents and all other related problems. We are aware of this, but we also know that this problem remains unresolved, first of all because the documents that had been prepared to prevent the possibility of African swine fever infections remain valid and tell us that, in certain territories with certain densities, we must take care to bring down up to 80% of the animals present. I believe that this issue remains in our attention, because, even if it is not today, it is fundamental, because the damage to agriculture continues to exist and to be very heavy, since the road accident linked to these animals continues to be a huge problem. I therefore believe, as the rapporteurs have said, both in the reports and in their replies, that we have many reasons to be satisfied with the work we have done in these two days in the concrete and timely filing of the measure, after all the preparatory work for the hearings of the past few weeks. Certainly, the figure of the Commissioner comes out very strengthened, as well as the procedures of a urban nature and all the authorization implications come out very strengthened and clarified in the implementation modalities; moreover, the functions of the commissioner and his relationship with the Regions and the extraordinary administration are clarified and strengthened, because he has the resources to intervene. All this should give speed and effectiveness to its role from the next few days, so from this point of view there are certainly many reasons to be satisfied and convinced that we have responded positively to the requests we received in the hearings. 15.23 (Taricco follow-up). There is still a need to address the issue of the excessive density of wild animals in many territories, also because otherwise, as the documents of ISPRA and the Ministry of April and June last year rightly state, with these population density the risk of infection is absolutely around the corner, as we have seen in this case. I would not like us now to deal with the current emergency and in six months we might have to deal with other outbreaks in other areas of Italy and again to tell us that the problem of African swine fever is the problem of the quota and that the general issues related to prevention are addressed again. For these reasons, with conviction, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure, in the hope that it will be a first important, significant and decisive step in the right direction, but that it will follow the second, third and other necessary steps. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u138	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Madam President, unfortunately, swine fever has arrived in our country, although in some respects it was already circulating in the form of swine flu, after having hit other countries and other European regions. I think this should make us think once and for all about the emergency of our time. We have seen what happened with Covid, even if we tend to forget it, but we are faced with a situation and we often face it by trying to put in place tools that try to solve the emergency. What is the point on which I draw attention? I am sorry that every time we are forced to make this argument only in the presence of an emergency, which is health care, I would like to remember it here for everyone. We live in a time when many experts and scientists say that we will be faced with other viruses that will hit, that have a very specific cause: on the one hand, the aggression against ecosystems causes then there to jump species, as happened with Covid, because animal species that have been separated from man for thousands of years come into contact and this is a problem that we should discuss and face seriously; on the other, there is another one on which I also invite everyone to reflect, that is, the systems of breeding (I look at Senator Taricco, because he knows what I am talking about). Now we are very distressed and we try as much as possible to confine and stop the spread of swine fever, of which you know perfectly well the impact, which in part has already arrived and which could be devastating on a very important sector for the country's economy. We need to think seriously. When, generally speaking, we talk about animal welfare, perhaps we should be even more consequential. The rapporteur, also because of her professional activity, knows what I am talking about. We should protect and push companies even more with incentives to improve the breeding systems and therefore the quality of life of those animals, to reduce crowding and to avoid a number of practices, because this helps and serves human well-being. It is an issue absolutely linked to food safety and citizens' safety. I repeat that these viruses, which are spreading more and more, have a type of viral circulation. They enter, go out and are closely connected and we, then, live in a closely interconnected world, this is the point: we are no longer in a country that has no exchanges and this is what happens. What happens has a strong impact, with economic consequences, on health, because we are talking about this, but also on ecosystems. With regard to the choices of the past, I now come to the subject, which now also reminded Senator Taricco, of the exponential growth of the wild boar population. I say this without controversy, but we must know the mistakes that have been made in the past. We have not always considered in a wise and scientific way the admissions we made. The repopulations were made with non-autoctonous species, because this is what happened, not having clearly the impact that all this could have, putting an animal into nature. In fact, when this happened, even the population of wolves was quite poor and there was not even the natural antagonist in some parts of the Apennines and in very large parts of the Region, so we did not calculate the consequences. We have already worked on this, on the prohibition of repopulation. Today, even on the control of wild boars, we must have the courage of a scientific approach and, once and for all, hear the technicians and take decisions with an approach that I define as scientific, because we must avoid making mistakes that could make the situation even worse. Also on the plans, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the Government and the Commission for the work they have done, because everyone has made an effort to try to understand the problems and also to improve the decree itself. I believe that it is the common objective of all to try to stop and possibly eradicate the plague. There was the government's effort, so thank you, to find the resources. Having taken them from the so-called support-ter decree, which directed them to the refreshment for the enterprises in distress, in the next measure we will have to recover them, especially for the fences, because it is evident that we have a problem of confinement. We also have a problem with giving directions on the plans, in order to put in place measures that are absolutely effective. In Belgium it was easy to make fences, being almost all flat ground, while we will have more difficulties. In the so-called red zone, where there are identified outbreaks and a wider viral circulation, a number of measures can be implemented to approximate. It would have been necessary to take other actions, as an indication for regional plans, by prohibiting a certain type of hunting to avoid mobility. That is the point: in order to contain and prevent dissemination, we must prevent mobility from even being accelerated. Population control also applies to urban areas. I live in Rome and do not have to add anything else, as the city has been the subject of jokes and posters. I'm not saying we live together, but almost. Even here, perhaps, sanitary standards would be needed to prevent there being waste everywhere, thereby encouraging continued arrivals of boars and not only (but of course boars are the biggest issue). I would like to take this example to say that, when a plan is put in place, a number of measures must be put in place and that, when you select, even with the killings, you must know what you are doing. I say that very clearly. In the past we have had experiences in which in a number of areas have been introduced what we can call coadjutors, hunters to make the selection and the killing, who perhaps acted for their own interests, not selecting how it should have been done. It is therefore necessary to know a little about the habits of the populations to be controlled. Therefore, the decree could not address the more general issue, which is necessary to deal seriously, using scientific methods and experts to put in place appropriate measures, but it was undoubtedly improved and, thanks to the Government, we found the resources. Now we need to make sure that the plans go ahead in all regions and infected areas. The Commissioner also had more powers. I therefore hope that we are on the right track and, for all these reasons, I announce the support of the Senators of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u141	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 July last, hundreds of farmers protested in Piazza Montecitorio to denounce, once again, the insustainability of the excessive presence of wildlife and, in particular, of wild boars. We at Forza Italia were physically there, but we were there in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, where we have worked constantly to keep our attention high on this issue, which is counterproductive not only from a productive point of view, but also and above all for the physical safety of people and for the health of our pig sector. January 7 is the date on which African swine fever in wild boar was detected in the provinces of Genoa and Alexandria. It is two dates, July 8th and January 7th, which are connected to each other. The wildlife issue must be dealt with definitively. The decree-law that we are discussing today ("urgent measures to stop the spread of African swine fever") confirms what has just been said: the excessive presence of wildlife has become a national health emergency for the sector and, consequently, must be managed with emerging tools. In fact, since it is a disease with a vast potential to spread, if it were to extend to pig farms, it would have serious repercussions, with considerable damage both to animal health (remember that farmers would be obliged to take down sick animals) and to the production sector. I think it is appropriate to reflect on the strategic importance of the pig sector, which in 2021 alone reached a value of around 2.5 billion in primary production. To these should be added the gains that are generated along the chain, which make this sector of absolute economic importance, also in the light of the fact that the destination of more than 80% of the pigs is directed towards the circuits of the products of protected quality, first of all the ham PDO. The pig sector is a fundamental part of the Made in Italy agri-food heritage of excellence. Consequently, it is our duty to preserve its integrity in the face of negative externalities such as swine fever, which has led to the loss of about EUR 20 million per month for our companies since January. This is an important figure, which is enough to compare with the 20 million earmarked for the restructuring of the debt in agriculture; this last measure is an important support for the entire agricultural sector, which I too have repeatedly requested from the Ministry, which I therefore thank. It is clear - and the numbers confirm - that this epidemic, affecting production, exposes to a serious risk of paralysis the economy of the sector, already extremely crushed by the costs of production (now unsustainable), the difficulty of supplying raw materials and the limitation to export. In fact, immediately after the first cases of plague, China, Japan, Taiwan, Kuwait and Switzerland imposed restrictions. Including this, and now at the end of March, I believe it is time for timeliness and operation. The provisions of the decree and the subsequent law of conversion must be adopted as soon as possible. I thank the speakers, the government and all the members of the committees involved for their work. It was necessary to strengthen the coordination of measures to control and combat the spread of the epidemic; the Special Commissioner must enter into a close dialogue with the regions in order to adopt the management, control and eradication plans for swine fever provided for in Article 1. All this system, however, and the same role of the commissioner, in order to be really functional, need resources; the Ministry has done well to correct the shot and to allocate 10 million euros for the concrete operation of the measure. We at Forza Italia will be, as we have always been, guardians of the interests of the sector, demanding promptness in resolving the problem. For this reason I announce the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group, confident that, protecting the interests of the sector, the next step will be to prevent public safety and safety, because scenes of accidents, even mortal, like those we have witnessed cannot and must not be perceived as normal. There is absolutely nothing normal about this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u144	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are about to vote on a measure which is as important as it is urgent, which has been waiting for a few months now, since 7 January, when the first positive case was found in a carcass found slightly outside a regional natural park, that of the Capanne di Marcarolo, in the province of Alexandria, where this virus was supposedly born and developed. However, despite the lack and also the lack of the government decree, immediate interventions at the territorial level, mostly focused on monitoring, to understand what happened around that positive case. I must thank here a few thousand volunteers, nominally authorized one by one by the two regions involved. For example, as far as my region is concerned, there are 1,618 volunteers, mostly hunters, who have joined together, perhaps for the first time, all the other outdoor users, walkers, bikers and all the others, in a search for the infected carcasses. A volunteering aimed at the general interest of society and also of the economy, for the reasons that have been well said in practically all the interventions that have been carried out today. African swine fever is dangerous for domestic pig farms and for turnover. Piedmont has about 1.35 million heads of pigs, Lombardy 6 million, Emilia, which is nearby, as many. The Regions, particularly Piemonte and Liguria, immediately became active, but Lombardy, Emilia and Tuscany have also done so, together with the Ministries of Health and Agriculture and the problem has been addressed. To date, indeed to last evening, the updated data is 490 carcasses found on the territory by these volunteers, of which 74 positive to African swine fever, all in the province of Genoa and Alexandria. In the general misfortune there was a positive fact that the virus was found and developed within artificial boundaries, namely two highways, the A7 and the A26, enclosed in the North by the junction between the two highways. Only in the Ovadese do we have six cases that have crossed the barrier of the highways (which have a fence, which occasionally gets knocked down, because there have also been accidents with wild boars on those highways), but it is difficult to pass two carriageways with two fences. Two positive cases went through the Arquata Scrivia area. This figure determines the urgency of containment operations, especially from the points where the motorway barriers have been crossed. The urgency stems from the fact that today we are going to vote on this measure with a hope that it will become, as soon as possible, the law of the State, which will be published in the Official Journal. In these weeks, probably already on Friday, the two Regions will produce the Plan provided by the decree for the contrast to the PSA, with the possibility finally to derogate also from some outdoor activities. Think that this area, where you can't walk and you can't do anything, includes about a million inhabitants. How many dogs of affection and for other activities held by a million inhabitants who, since January, are forced to walk only on the asphalt and cannot go on the dirt road? That is the further reason for the urgency. What are the difficulties of a part of the red area, that of the Riviera di Ponente, for example, that from Arenzano ends at the border with the municipality of Savona, to Albissola Marina, where nothing can be done except to go on the asphalt or to the limit on the beach, or, if you have the courage, even at sea? And we are faced with a period when tourism, after having suffered the problems of the Covid, should start again, as well as the hinterland, with the area of the two parks that are penalized. President. - We shall vote firmly and vigorously in favour of this measure and I would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, Mr Bergesio and Mr Biti, the Presidents of the Commissions 9a and 12a and the Government. However, I must make a few considerations - because I am not used to acting or holding back - within the limits of regularity. That is what Mr Taricco said before: the right presence of the boar in those areas, as in many others, should be one head square kilometre, as ISPRA says. There we are at 14-15 garments per square kilometre and this figure will increase shortly for the reproduction that is in progress. Let me say one thing with my heart: we have spoken on this subject several times and we are convinced that we were not mad when we said that we had to intervene to allow for a greater reduction of wild boars. [[Applause]] We don't think we were crazy when we talked about damage to agriculture or the need to reduce the number of road accidents. On the occasion, all the dead that have been there should also be remembered. [[Applause]] I wasn't crazy when - even naively - I wondered what would happen with all these animals if an epidemic broke out (I called it that then). I said these words in the Chamber: a " peacemaker" will happen. Nothing to do and five times (now for the sixth time), the Senate and the House could not bring to completion the necessary amendment of Law No 157 of 1992, which could have prevented the overpopulation of these animals. No way. Why? Maybe we can't make it clear that the moment has come when we have to abandon the imaginative vision of the boar to protect, that still today someone has. [[Applause]] The ecological methods have not worked so far and unfortunately do not work. I would like to thank that part of the Democratic Party which has set aside this idea, which has also appeared in the Commission's work. In the Commission we have even heard, together with the proposal to eradicate PSA without cutting down a boar, that of killing only the sick: first we catch them, we take their blood tests and then we decide whether or not they should be killed. In the face of these things it is necessary to return with your feet on the ground. We must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the chicken breast is not born in a supermarket, in a plastic box. [[Applause]] Says a Genoese: it is not nice for anyone to see wild boars rumble and dig among the graves of the Monumental Cemetery of Staglieno in Genoa; it is not a good thing. [[Applause]] I truly say this with my heart, for once, to those who still hold things so anachronistic and distant from reality: think of trying to descend from this five-star cloud, because it is necessary to stand on the ground. Every once in a while everyone likes to be in the clouds, but when you're in front of serious things like this, come back, dear colleagues, on earth. [[Applause.]] (15:43) (BRUZZONE followed). I do not want to make any particular mention, but sometimes the experience, the reality, the ability to deal with problems must fall on the needs of the territory and on what they have taught us. To make you understand what agro-silvo-pastoral territory and rural activities mean, you may have been told that the cow gives you milk, but the cow does not give us milk and, if you believed it, you were wrong. As a child, they taught me that if you want milk, you have to get up at 4:00 in the morning, take the bucket and the car seat, go there and get your shoes dirty and your hands dirty, because the milk doesn't come looking for you in the supermarket. [[Applause]] So if we're gonna try to eradicate swine fever, we're gonna have to give up some of those philosophies. Someone will have to continue, as in recent weeks, to get their shoes and hands dirty. I thank all those who have done so and will do so on the territory. I thank everyone for the measure that we are approving, because its contents will continue to give us the opportunity to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u147	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, halting the spread of African swine fever in wild boars, preventing infection in farmed pigs and safeguarding exports and their supply chain are obviously priorities that cannot be separated. As we know, PSA is a disease with a vast potential for spread which, if underestimated, could have a major impact on the productive sector, on Community and international trade and on livestock, due to the forced slaughter of infected animals. In the preamble, however, I would like to reiterate the inopportunity to try to take advantage of this situation in order to change indiscriminately the rules on hunting and wildlife control. The Presidents have done well in this regard to declare that a number of amendments which went in that direction would not be acceptable. The Movimento 5 Stars, indeed, is not on the clouds, but is always on the same line of thought, the one that runs along the tracks of unconditional trust to science, leaving aside fervors and fears dictated by a definitely emergent situation, but that must be faced for this by means of indispensable necessary and urgent interventions. On the assumption that PSA is an infectious disease that is not transmitted to man, but no less harmful, there are many points on which we have reasoned to put in place a strategy that is also preventive and not only defensive. It certainly goes in this direction the prohibition of hunting in areas with outbreaks by means that favor the mobility and the dispersion of the animals, and therefore of the virus. But it's not enough... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u148	Colleagues, Senator Pirro is trying to do her speech and we are all interested in listening to him, so please lower the volume of the voice a lot. I refer in particular - alas - to the right-hand side of the House, which is currently inattentive.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u149	Please, Senator Pirro, continue. PIRRO (M5S). Thank you, President. We should, for example, make the management of wildlife autonomous from hunting interests. We should strengthen the national monitoring system on zoonoses and other diseases, monitoring wildlife and livestock farms with a special focus on livestock farming. Again, in the wake of the long-awaited ecological transition, we should protect habitats and biodiversity by maintaining a spatial and physical balance between man and wild species, to prevent the passage of a virus between man and animal or, as in the case of this species, the spread of the virus within the same animal species. We should also, and above all, intervene in intensive farming systems, which are a breeding ground for the spread of infectious diseases. Although PSA is not a zoonotic disease to date, it is widely recognised that intensive farming provides opportunities for pathogens to replicate, mutate and become more virulent. A very crowded pig stable is an ideal environment for rapid transmission. Intensively reared pigs can be more susceptible to diseases; their immune system can be compromised due to crowded and contained stress, lack of natural light, rapid growth rates, large litter sizes, poor genetic diversity due to breed selection and massive use of antibiotics. Even open-air farms, according to the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), have a significant risk of contracting and spreading PSA due to contact with positive wild species such as wild boars. It is therefore important that adequate fences are installed in these farms and that the biosafety conditions are respected. Despite the criticalities in the farms... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u150	Forgive me, Senator Pirro.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u151	Colleagues, so we can not continue our work, at whose conclusion there is very little. I invite you for the last time to silence or lower the volume of your voice. I'm not gonna get the senator back if there's no way to listen. This applies to everyone, since I speak every time anyone who is speaking cannot finish. Please turn it down. PIRRO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. Although the criticalities of intensive farms have been well known for a long time, in order to contain the inflation on pig products that occurred following the PSA epidemic in 2017-2018, with consequent increase in prices, both raw material and its transport, China has increased the size of herds in terms of size and density of animals, and this although the specific health risks posed by intensive units are scientifically known, including the opportunities to change that are offered to pathogens. The increase in the number of animals in farms, with the consequent increase in the density of animals per farm, is the first response to the dynamics of the market. Unfortunately, however, it does not seem that even organic farms, which focus on the quality of the products rather than on the quantity, with a lower environmental impact of the supply chain, are not exempt from PSA. In 2001, PSA was also found among pigs from German organic farms. Infection in wild wild boars in the wild has also contributed to the spread of the disease in domestic pigs reared outdoors. It is therefore evident that, while guaranteeing large enclosures, the probability of indirect contact with wild boars present in the territory is greater. Fortunately, to date, in Italy there are no cases of swine fever in pigs reared and EFSA in January 2022 excluded Italy from the areas of concern. Italian farms, therefore, can be considered safe, but the alert remains. With about 700 million pigs raised around the world, the possibility of new waves of infectious animal diseases, new variants and pinovers in humans could be high. Finally, Madam President, I am referring at this moment to an already stressed territory, that of the red zone for African swine fever, and wounded by alluvial events in recent years, hit hard by the pandemic and which today is also facing this serious phenomenon. In addition to farms, we have to think about the whole silvo-pastoral sector, about all the economic input made of hiking and tourism related to the outdoor that, even if sedentary, contributes to the economy of these territories. We therefore hope that the next steps will find the necessary resources to support these activities. We also hope that all the management of the successive phases will take place in close contact with the local authorities, with the mayors of the affected territories who are, before any other subject, custodians of the needs of their citizens and who can be a source of great help to the work of the Extraordinary Commissioner. We hope, again, that the Regions will play their part in issuing ordinances that cannot be put in charge only of the small municipalities. I am beginning to finish, Madam President. Colleagues, nature once again shows us that we are fragile before it. Let us remember it and respect it more. In this decree, in conclusion, there are necessary interventions that, if implemented promptly, can serve the purpose. For this announcement the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u153	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u154	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Madam President, this measure to control swine fever is unbalanced and excessive. It is by virtue of this measure that since January 114 Municipalities between Liguria and Piedmont subjugate the so-called lockdown of the woods, so it is no longer possible to do some activities in the meadows, in the woods or in the dirt roads. This measure, moreover, is also dangerous because it postpones the regional plans, which could have provided for derogations from these absolute contents, for the application of the National Monitoring Plan and for the manual of emergencies drawn up at national level and which provide for lockdowns within a radius of six kilometers from the detection of carcasses. The risk is that from now on, if new carcasses are found at different points in the territory, there is the impossibility of making any kind of derogation within this radius of 6 kilometres. This will bring even more damage to the economy of the hinterland, as well as removing the freedom of movement, of leisure and also of health; I remember that staying in the woods, cycling and taking walks is not only an important freedom for citizens, but it is also something that supports their health. For these reasons the Ligurian and Piedmontese Municipalities, in particular Genoa, are currently hit by excessive closures, which do not take into account and do not balance the interests at stake. For this reason, I will vote against this measure, inviting you to reflect that it too has excessive limitations in itself that all too often government and majority are bringing to the freedoms of Italians, in this particular case of Ligurians and Piedmontese.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u155	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 9 of 17 February 2022 on emergency measures to stop the spread of African swine fever (PSA)" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u158	Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Mr President, I would like to thank President Draghi for his attention to the city of Naples. The signing of the Common Saving Agreement to the Angevin Man in order to face the deficit and avoid the default is an important sign of proximity by the State, but also the only way to remedy the disasters of the past managements, that have produced an exponential debt, like the decade of the administration led by De Magistris, thanks to which the expenditure for public debt is rose by as much as 800 million until the current 1.5 billion, as they report the data of Open Polis Naples from 2016 to 2019, thus trebling such expense. I address a sincere good luck to Mayor Manfredi so that he can lead the regional capital, having at this point all the faculties, even economic, outside the abyss. The Government's aid to the other large cities in debt, such as Turin, Reggio Calabria and Palermo, is welcome. However, it would be appropriate not to forget even the smallest realities. In fact, there are other cities, with heavy deficits inherited from previous administrations, such as Terni, Vibo Valentia, Benevento, but also from the North, such as Massarosa and Lavagna, which were forced to declare dissension and to see it alone, without any support. The Italian municipalities with active failures declared between 2016 and 2021 are almost 200 and moving on with these assumptions is really complicated despite the great efforts made. That is why I believe that, where there are situations of blatant difficulty which cannot be attributed to the current administrations, the State should not discriminate between large and small realities. The internal areas must also be taken into account and therefore the smaller municipalities must be supported, otherwise the existing gap will only be increased and those who are forced to operate in the most complete isolation will be marginalised to an ever greater extent. [[Applause]] It is therefore an appeal to the Government and this Parliament to be close to internal areas and small cities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u161	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to point out to the House a subject that is very close to our Group's heart, but I also believe in many other colleagues here. I am referring to the issue of fragile workers. Unfortunately in the re-opening decree-law, published in the Official Journal on March 24, the famous hand struck again. In the draft that we have all seen and that was on the press, there was a specific article aimed at making the protection of fragile workers continue; for goodness sake, drafts can not be trusted, but I did a check with the Ministers present at the Council of Ministers, who assure me that I voted on that text. Unfortunately, that article has disappeared in the Official Journal. This is not the first time that this happens, it is always very serious, but this time it is even more so because it hits really weak people, in difficulty. The problem is said to be economic. Over the last few weeks, billions have been found for the expensive bills, huge resources have been found to cut excise duty on petrol, we have rightly found funds to increase the allocation for arms, we have rightly found funds for Ukrainian refugees, but the MEF does not find 70 million for fragile workers. [[Applause]] Moreover, the norm in Decree-Law No 24 of 2022 was not the maximum, it was not optimal, but it was limited only to so-called superragiles, so it reduced the audience and guaranteed only the smart working, but not the absence protected for those who cannot do smart working. It would in any case have been an insufficient rule, but we could have improved it at the time of parliamentary conversion. Now instead from 1 April, from the day after tomorrow, these people are called to work in presence. We are talking about cancer patients, immunodepressants on which the vaccine has no effect, people with severe respiratory diseases. [[Applause]] At this stage when with reopenings, rightly and finally, we return to circulation more free, the virus has not disappeared and still risks hitting these people who have no defenses. We cannot wait two months for parliamentary conversion to remedy this; it is not true that it takes twenty days, as a 5 Star Member said on television yesterday; it does not happen in twenty days, it takes two months. We demand that the government intervene immediately. We need a corrective measure from the Government that must arrive as soon as possible, if not today or tomorrow, because from 1 April these people return to the presence and risk their lives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u164	DE VECCHIS (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, I would like to address yet again the political and administrative shame of this Government, which hits the former Alitalia company, today Ita Airways, and all air transport. This failure unfortunately comes with the news of the resignation of six members of the Board of Directors of Ita out of eight. This really casts a shadow on the management of the government but also of Commissioner Altavilla. He has failed and unfortunately his failure will cost thousands of jobs, with families who do not know their future. The sector has really been abandoned by this Government and the ministers who have to deal with it. I want to point out that this is a shame. We are talking about thousands of layoffs, about social butchers, to get to the resignation of the board of directors. I call for the resignation of the Commissioner and of all those responsible for this tragedy, which concerns not only the territory of Fiumicino, but the whole of the national territory. We wanted to create a state company to sell quotas: to whom, to the French, to the Germans, to the British? Soon Italy will no longer have an airline and you are the culprits. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u165	As agreed, I suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.10 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u166	Colleagues, as you know, Maria Romana De Gasperi has failed. His surname immediately indicates his ancestry. Unfortunately, this House wants to remember you. I give the floor immediately, therefore, to the various senators who have asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u169	WORDS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although she had reached the splendid age of ninety-nine, Maria Romana De Gasperi, who died today in Rome, had maintained until the last full mental lucidity and had been attentive to what was happening in Italy and in the world. It should not, however, be remembered only for being the daughter of one of the most authoritative statesmen, but above all for its commitment, which has crossed its entire existence, aimed at preserving, maintaining and nourishing among young people the values in which the father had believed and which had inspired his work in the institutions of the country, contributing, in a tangible way and recognized by history, to the birth of the Republic and to the fundamental Atlantic choice of Italy. It is worth remembering, colleagues, that Maria Romana was a valuable political collaborator and then a personal assistant to her father during the years of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and had a role outside the proscenium, behind the scenes, but as a reserved protagonist. First in favor of the restoration of democracy during the Second World War and then, in the years of government, until the departure of his father, he lived as a direct witness the crucial events that marked the history of our democracy. Maria Romana contributed to the birth of the De Gasperi Foundation and, through it, carried out an intense publishing, conference and witnessing activity, aimed at keeping alive the memory of Alcide De Gasperi, of his thought, of the eminent role played in the Institutions. The numerous awards received by Maria Romana, in particular by the President of the Republic of Mattarella and finally by Pope Francis, attest better than any other proof the value of the person. We want to remind you here for its simplicity, for its great humanity and morality, combined with an uncommon intellectual rigor. We are grateful to her for incarnating her father's ideals and feeding them and passing them on in the course of her long life; Ideas on which the Republic has been realized and which have become essential baggage for all of us who believe deeply in liberal freedom and democracy. To the family of Maria Romana De Gasperi comes the emotional mourning of the senators of Forza Italia.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u172	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the disappearance of Maria Romana De Gasperi I think that the public opinion of our country, which does not only remember her for her important surname, but also as a great woman, an exemplary personality for moral qualities, civil qualities and for a significant cultural importance, that we have also known in the many things she wrote; she emerged, often, for the absolute confidentiality of her behavior: a gift that we particularly appreciate in this time - let us say the truth - often so distressed. Maria Romana was the daughter of Alcide De Gasperi, daughter and close collaborator of the statesman to whom more than anyone else we owe our democracy, the approach of that development policy that led us to become the seventh economic power of the planet from a country destroyed by a world war, terrible, lost. The statesman who has determined the international location of Italy in Europe and NATO. Maria Romana completes the figure of Father Alcide, not only because she was his close collaborator, but also because she showed clearly how the role of the family of a great leader can weigh in the same history of the country. It should be remembered, therefore, for its personal, intellectual and moral qualities and for the great discretion with which it lived, but also for the civil and democratic force, which Alcide De Gasperi received from his family, beginning with his wife Francesca and daughter Maria Romana. We must therefore also recognize to Maria Romana De Gasperi part of the merit for the great dignity with which Italy has emerged from fascism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u175	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have recently seen a television miniseries about the figure of Alcide De Gasperi - De Gasperi - The Man of Hope - directed by Liliana Cavani. In this beautiful film work the figure of Maria Romana (we read so much, but then when there are the images that testify to it, things are closer to us) and how the firstborn of Alcide De Gasperi participated in the life of his father. It is in fact Maria Romana who assists De Gasperi, President of the Council of Ministers, as a private secretary without salary and it is she who accompanies him at the very difficult Peace Conference in Paris and describes that important moment saying: I was there and remember the deafening silence after his speech. She was in the United States in 1947, alongside journalists with her father. Thus Maria Romana became a historical memory of the twentieth century, as headlines the daily "Avvenire" of today, with her essays, her writings, her historiography, the activity of the Foundation, of which she was President, and her documentary collection. At the same time, I was thinking about her life as a child and the stories she made, with great tenderness. He says that when his father was arrested by the fascist police, he felt sure that they would release him because, after all, he was a member of parliament who criticized the government, while they sentenced him to four years. The mother said he couldn't even cry. Another episode that Maria Romana told of is a gift that her father gave her in 1927, with little pieces of the National Geographic, since there were no other resources. I imagined what an example of uprightness, ethics, morals and spirituality Maria Romana De Gasperi had. She leaves us an important woman, witness of the twentieth century. We have lost a scrupulous observer of events and a champion of ideal values, but we retain everything that has wanted to give and pass on, all the events that have led to the reconstruction of our country. Senator Zanda recalled this now: in the difficult times we are living, never as now do we have the duty to collect his witness and, if there is a moment in which history is magistra vitae, from the things that Maria Romana has handed down and left us we must learn a lot. Of course, we share in the mourning of her family, her friends and those who loved her. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u178	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, to mention the figure of Maria Romana De Gasperi for some thirty years is a reason not only for special honour, but also for reflection and emotion. For all those who were born in Trentino the De Gasperi family and Father Alcide have always been a cultural, ideological and behavioral reference. When we think of Maria Romana De Gasperi we refer to a figure far from secondary in the history of our democracy. In paying tribute to and expressing the deepest condolences, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, we want to remember how important Maria Romana was: a daughter who was able to be at the side and at certain times in the shadow of her father and a person who knew not to seek the protagonism, but precisely for this reason to be the protagonist of the cultural and political life of our country. We owe her so many cultural moments. She was the founder and honorary president, until her death, of the De Gasperi Foundation, a foundation that collected all the documentation on the cultural and political history of Alcide De Gasperi, a man of the other century, who lived not only at the turn of time, but also at the turn of a historical reality that saw our territory pass from belonging to the Habsburg Empire, Austro-Hungarian, to the Italian State. De Gasperi lived as a protagonist in the two phases of belonging to Trentino to different worlds and different historical realities. I would like to recall the figure of Maria Romana as a witness to all the moments of her father's life, for example the moments in which her father represented the rebirth of this country, its democratic and liberal rebirth. He represented a strong barrier in the face of the drift of communism in the post-war period, which risked bringing Italy into a situation certainly not suited to the wishes of the Italians. De Gasperi in the post-war years was the barrier to communism; he represented the liberal and Catholic-democratic values that led our country to the years of economic development and boom. Maria Romana's work has been much appreciated by all of us, because she has been able to testify to the role that her father had for our nation, for our citizens and for the values that we all want to embody today in our political activity and in our daily life. I would also like to stress the commitment of Maria Romana to remember the figure of De Gasperi as the protagonist of an autonomy that - let me say - was partly betrayed after her death. De Gasperi conceived the regional autonomy, that autonomy of the Trentino-Alto Adige Region that had to give perspectives to a peripheral mountain territory, which certainly also had problems of coexistence. And he gave it to him, because De Gasperi's regional perspective, also following the De Gasperi-Gruber agreements (I start the conclusion), was decisive for our Trentino. The Trentino then recalls the figure of Maria Romana and Father Alcide with the utmost respect and with the utmost mourning. We turn to the family to express our closeness and our thoughts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u181	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-Iac (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, Mrs Parente wanted to start with an image and a film. I would like to start from a book: "De Gasperi man only." If I had to recommend to a guy who is approaching politics a bibliography of training, in the first place I would put this volume and perhaps after that of another great Europeanist, Altiero Spinelli: As I tried to become wise. They are two very different writings, which also express a very heterogeneous Europeanism, but explain the epochal reasons for supranationality and also explain how some political journeys, which start from completely different starting points, can be encountered. It is an important book that of Maria Romana De Gasperi; it is first of all from a literary point of view, because it is a beautiful book, enjoyable; and then it is from a historiographic point of view, because it has entered fully into the debate on the figure of Alcide De Gasperi. Somehow that interpretation, which came from those who were close to him and witnessed his political action, was opposed to that of a great historian who acted not on the level of memory but on the level of historiographic reconstruction. I am referring to Pietro Scoppola and his "La proposta politica di De Gasperi." They were two different interpretations: one that wanted a De Gasperi proud defender of the centrist season, which then was recognized as the happiest of the Republic also by many historians and economists of the left; the other that instead believed that his path would inevitably lead to the center-left, which was instead a consequence wanted by those who succeeded him in Christian Democracy. Above all, that book is characterized by a great, infinite humanity. It is the testimony of the greatness of politics and also of its hardness, because those pages show us how the one who in all respects must be considered our reconstructor, the national builder who saved Italy from war, hunger and communism, had to suffer unspeakable harshness and accusations and even had to defend himself from the accusation of not being an Italian. That book also tells us many current things. The last challenge of De Gasperi, which Maria Romana reconstructs, was that of the European Defence Community, of the European Army, and I would like someone to read his letters from Valsugana today to understand how important it is for the dignity of a country to respect the international commitments they assume. Finally, it is a book that explains how politics is a mission and in this finds its beauty and its ransom, even the ransom from its injustices. I have a personal memory of Maria Romana, because I also attended her for professional reasons when I wrote about her father. I remember a stretch of sweetness, of innate courtesy, but also an intransigence that reached almost the hardness, which makes me understand how sometimes being moderate - as certainly she was and how her father had been - means having to have a straight back even more than those who have radical positions. These are all elements that we should recover from today's policy, which politics has partly lost. If we really want to honour Maria Romana today, we should do so with this commitment from the whole House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u184	TEXTOR (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tonight, at the age of ninety-nine, Maria Romana De Gasperi, the firstborn of Alcide De Gasperi, died. I have met and met Maria Romana several times and for this reason I remember her with great emotion and from this Chamber I would like to address my deepest condolences and those of the entire League Group to the family and to the many people who loved her. To them goes our closeness. Born in Trento in 1923, he is only four years old when he begins to suffer for his father's absence, who was arrested in 1927. Maria Romana spends her childhood and adolescence in sobriety, studying in Rome and graduating in letters to Wisdom. He is immediately active in the work of the great statesman and lives with him crucial moments in the history of the Republic: he assists him as a private secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, follows him and accompanies him on the representation trips and during the memorable meetings with the most illustrious international political personalities. He therefore knows Schuman and Adenauer during the process of European unification. She was in Paris in 1946 at the Peace Conference where De Gasperi represented Italy. In an interview he remembered: "I was there, I remember the deafening silence after his intervention, accused of a war (...) which he had actually fought. Maria Romana De Gasperi dedicated her whole life entirely to her father, that beloved father, so much so as to become the guardian and spreader of her thought, of her extraordinary political activity. Author of numerous books on the great statesman, she was honorary president of the De Gasperi Foundation that she established in 1982, which became a reference point in the Italian political and cultural landscape for those who see herself in the original Degasperian European spirit and in the values lived and supported by Alcide De Gasperi, such as the centrality of the human person, the defence of democracy and European integration. Maria Romana said she felt that she was in full Trentino and in fact she has always maintained an intense relationship with Trentino: she returned every time there was a meeting or an initiative dedicated to the memory of her father. It was she, at one of the meetings in Trentino, who remembered the greatest disappointment of Alcide De Gasperi, when, in the weeks before she died, in 1954, she saw the possibility of building a European army and providing for a common defence in Europe. On that occasion, Maria Romana said she saw her father crying for the first time, just when she realized that the moment was passing. His life was marked by several mournings, but he often repeated that he had the fortune to live his youth before an honest man, who by his example had taught her the courage to keep faith in her ideas, even if it is a cause of suffering and loneliness, and to face difficulties with tenacity. Maria Romana De Gasperi perfectly embodied the ideals of her father, keeping his name high with the constant and precious commitment to preserve and spread his memory. From thirty, but above all from Ladin, I cannot fail to recall the important thought of Alcide De Gasperi promoting the De Gasperi-Gruber Agreement, whose fundamental principles are based on respect for linguistic diversity as a concept of coexistence between peoples, principles underlying the construction of the same unity of Europe, which is based on respect for the cultural diversity of its Member States, rooted in the great linguistic richness. I quote the words of the Archbishop of Trento Lauro Tisi: Maria Romana De Gasperi disappeared in the days when cannons are pumping up neighbors; perhaps it is a wound too great to bear, after having shared closely the dream of the founding fathers of a united and peaceful Europe. I conclude by turning a thought of gratitude for his testimonies and his stories, which allowed us to know Alcide De Gasperi from a perspective not only political, but also of man and above all of father: in one of the many testimonies, perhaps the most tender, he spoke to us about a father who did not tell the fairy tales to his daughter before going to sleep, but the Gospel; today we can say that the Gospel lived it above all. He was therefore a great man, who was able to raise a great woman. Hello, Maria Romana, let the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u185	We have thus concluded the interventions that have deservedly remembered Maria Romana De Gasperi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u186	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2562, already approved by the House of Deputies. I ask the President of the Commissions meeting 3rd and 4th, Senator Pinotti, to report on the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u187	Mr President, despite the best intentions of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees, which also tried this afternoon to meet, after the opinion of the Budget Commission, which arrived a few minutes before the beginning of the sitting of this House, we were able to take note of it as Commissions, but we were unable to conclude the examination of the measure and then vote on the mandate for the rapporteur to report back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Pinotti's report, bill No 2562, since the examination has not been completed in the Commissions meeting, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u189	Mr President, on a very important measure whose content will be analysed and highlighted in this general debate, I would just like to make a few political points. I was very impressed by the debate that took place yesterday in the Foreign and Defence Committees. A fellow senator has argued - and I apologise for the synthesis - that, after all, for a country like Italy armament cannot have a deterrent effect, because today the only deterrent that counts is the nuclear one. This statement surprised me, not so much because of its content (because the weight of nuclear deterrent cannot be called into question), but because I was underestimated the importance and weight of the war in Ukraine and the way in which it has been fighting for more than a month. It is the courage of the Ukrainians who, with their traditional weapons, prevented Russia from occupying the entire country in 24 hours. Nuclear weapons are the deterrent that stops the world in the face of the risks of a third world war, but it is courage, traditional weapons and new technologies that deters those rogue states that want to attack and invade free nations. This is the reason why Italy, almost unanimously, approves our participation in the sending of arms destined to the Ukrainian resistance. Another Senator, again in the Commission yesterday, speaking on the agenda that calls on the Government to follow up the Italian commitment to allocate 2% of the budget for the defence sector, asked to reflect on the ultimate reasons why Italy must or should not strengthen its defence system and as urgently as possible. This issue is of great importance because it is vital for us to know the underlying reasons for our decisions. I do not want to speak on the political debate over the last few hours, on the vote of the Chamber of Deputies on 2% with the support of the whole majority, nor on the honour of the Republic put to the test when it is discussed whether and how to keep the commitments entered into by all governments that have succeeded at least in the last fifteen years. These are important issues, just as it is important to keep the memory of the recent and the less recent past. But today the central point is another: what is the strategic region for which Italy must strengthen its defensive armament and also contribute to arming Ukrainian resistance? And what's the urgency? Why must our commitments with NATO be honoured immediately and not, according to a well-known Italian custom, postponed? The devastating force of the armed invasion of Ukraine by Putin's Russia marks a sharp cut between before and after, in the history of Europe of our time and consequently in the history of the world. For the first time since the end of World War II, the borders of a great European democratic country have been violated by the armed forces of a great neighbouring power, with an infinitely greater force and with the stated objective of subjecting it in whole or in part. But the gravity of the invasion of Ukraine, already very heavy in itself, must be framed in a broader context, which marks its true nature and the level of gravity. Ukraine follows armed intervention by Russia of Putin, serious and illegal, in Chechnya, Georgia and Syria; it follows the annexation of Crimea and the unilateral recognition of the independence of two Ukrainian provinces of the Donbass, but it also follows numerous poisonings of opponents of the Russian regime, the killing or the prison for many free journalists, the closure of newspapers, television and independent information networks, not to mention the technological interference in the elections of several Western democracies. This is the context which qualifies the Russian aggression against Ukraine and which must be carefully assessed to understand well the risks facing Western Europe. The European Union, the United States and NATO have not only seen the Russian invasion as an act of war and an unjustified violation of international law, which is extremely serious and intolerable, but also as a clear sign of a brutal policy of aggression put in place by an absolute power which today governs a great power such as Russia. It is President Putin's policy that has determined not only a broad solidarity with Ukraine and the resistance of its citizens, but also an intense alarm for the security of Western Europe, which has suddenly been seen, not abstractly, but very seriously exposed to obvious military risks. Biden is right when she talks about a challenge between authoritarian regimes and democracies and Zelesky is even more right, not only when she asks for Ukrainian resistance to be helped even militarily, but also when she urges that aid arrive immediately and not after the invasion has occupied her country in its entirety. Zelesky is still right when he reminds us that the Ukrainians are not fighting only for their homeland, but for the whole of Western Europe, because that is the case. Today it is peace in Europe that has been compromised and we, by helping Ukraine, also help ourselves and our democracy. Everything therefore becomes urgent, knowing that the security of the countries of Western Europe is guaranteed by the NATO Alliance, but that this is not enough and that a European foreign and defence policy is and remains our objective, but they are not and cannot be achieved in the short term that would be needed. Italy repudiates war as a means of resolving international disputes, but it considers sacred the duty to defend the country and I emphasize it. The debate on what should be the priority between spending on the defence of the Homeland and spending on social policies has always existed. Governments prior to the present have increased - and I voted in favour - the expenditure for the defense of our country, despite having to face massive percentages of youth unemployment and then there was no war that today instead there is. Today we must reflect on the fact that our Constitution calls us to many duties, but it considers sacred only one duty, that of defending the Homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u190	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u191	Mr President, how do we get out of a conflict? The Pope said: for him he does not leave with weapons and so for us. President Mattarella also indirectly said so, so you skinned your hands just a few weeks ago: Peace is always necessary and possible. But there are only two possibilities to emerge from a conflict: building with diplomacy a complex and delicate geopolitical balance that reassures all parties, or with war, with armed conflict, the violence that involves only one final, the military annihilation of the opponent, with a cost in terms of innocent lives, considered in many cases a necessary cost. You are right, the complexity of geopolitical equilibrium is enormous, but it is above all the interests at stake that are immanent. You have to be realistic. That is precisely why the simplification of polarization that you want to impose as absolute and immutable truth is not good. The Government's commitments to increase military spending to 2% of GDP are a commitment made with NATO as early as 2014, but they do not represent an absolute binding commitment, no consequences and no sanctions are foreseen; just as it was not a binding commitment for NATO not to have to push to the East even one inch, nor was it compulsory to dissolve the Alliance in 1992. NATO already allocates 18 times Russia's military spending, 1,103 billion, China 252, India 79, Russia 61 billion. In Italy it would mean going from 25 billion a year to 38 billion a year. The NATO website explains that the 2% threshold is an indicator of the political will of the different countries. Well, then we are talking about political will and the political will cannot be immutable. What is the democracy with which you swell your breasts so much and with which you fill your mouth so much, if not the political will of the people expressed through their sovereignty exercised with the vote? What commitments do we have with the Italian people who say they are against sending weapons to the streets for 50%? What a commitment to democracy, with the will expressed by the sovereign people who four years ago voted with almost 34% of preferences a party, the Movimento 5 Stars, with a program that included the following points: one, the repudiation of war; two, disarmament as a prerequisite for peace; three, Russia's economic partner against terrorism; four, the reform of NATO from a multilateral perspective aimed at peace. I believe that your extreme supranational political realism forces you to put in the drawer not only the Constitution, not only Parliament with its functions, but also the word democracy, abused by you, which no longer corresponds to the form of government exercised by the people through its representatives, but also to the expression of free thought if it diverges from your absolutist ideology. To what did the propaganda on the export of democracy and the self-determination of peoples, but dangerously oriented according to certain specific interests, and operated by dangerously shifting very delicate axes of unstable balances, such as in Iraq in 2003 or in Syria in 2011? It took us exactly to the point where we crashed today. From this decree-law, but above all from the agenda approved in the House, it seems to me that we want to proceed quickly and expeditiously to the second hypothesis of which we said, the war. To a war that must not end today, but to a perpetual war between opposing blocs, between us and them, that makes us fall back to the last century. But we can't afford it. At what costs? We talked about human costs and, of course, environmental costs. But there are also the economic costs and perhaps, following the line of costs and economic gains of this war, we can understand something more, who earns and who loses us and what interests we are responding to. What is the situation with us? Gas, raw materials for the industry, but also wheat and maize for animal feed and fertilizers come from countries in war, so they increase; the cost of wine is also increasing and Italian tourism is at risk; the cost of energy and gasoline increases, but also bread, pasta and confectionery products; because of the increase in the price of maize, which is an animal feed, the price of meat and milk rises. These increases are for the moment the result of the nervousness of the markets (as Draghi defines the speculative mechanism of the free market), which in a preventive way have raised prices, but much will depend on how long this war will last. Clearly there have been no sanctions on gas, so the cost of the source is still more or less the same, but we have increased it by 30%. Economic observers tell us that if Russia decides to reduce its gas supplies to Italy by 10%, we will lose 0.8% of the GDP forecast in 2022. Meanwhile, Russia organizes itself to sell gas to the East, China and India. Who, then, will be overwhelmed by the costs of war? Certainly Europe and certainly Italy, while the United States of America is in an iron barrel, because for us Russia is the second or third trading partner, while for the United States it is only the thirtieth trading partner. This, of course, if World War III does not break out, because it has been calculated that with the atomic bomb Italy would be swept away in just twelve minutes. Peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u192	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u193	Mr President, I have shared much of Senator Zanda's speech in his approach to his speech. I agree without it and without it but with the fact that there has been a serious violation of international law, of the UN Charter. There is an aggressor country and there is an assaulted country that has been defending itself for days, with the help of the West and also of our country. We must not hesitate about this. [[Applause]] Neneism belongs to the history of this country and someone today would like to revive it with some behavioral resistivity, because when he was President of the Council he had increased the expenses of the defense, but suddenly he thinks that all this is not convenient and cannot explain it to his voters. Senator Nugnes explained to us earlier that they had asked for the votes for this: then you have to return those votes, because you have taken them illegitimately, not democratically, because you have violated the principles on which our Constitutional Charter is based, that is, the freedom of manifestation of thought. You have imposed a thought via ether and on it you have sought confirmation more than in the ballot boxes. What's going on these days? Of course, we all hope that this war will end soon and that diplomacy will find a solution, but we cannot expect and think that all this will happen so alone, by self-failing. Hegel said the story was like the butcher's counter. Those are terrible words. The same author said the story was over. Actually, history always starts again from the end of something, it comes back. He was convinced that the great codification of Europe had been established with Napoleon and that Europe was entering an era of peace. That's not what happened. We have had the twentieth century, a century with two world wars and today we are still a war within Europe. With regard to it, I note a particular characteristic, following the event, which someone has forgotten, which has marked the most brilliant moment of foreign policy since 2000 onwards. I speak of Pratica di Mare, with President Berlusconi, when Putin himself had to say: he began a collaboration with Nato. And you can't deny me here. That is a vision in which we Italians must recognize each other. Russia's history is a history close to Europe, a history of Europe. Emanuele Severino, before he died, recognized this, saying that an undisputed feature of Berlusconi's political ability was to see in Russia at that time, in Putin's Russia, the possibility of an approach to European ideals and positions. Then we forgot. Suddenly the world has changed. There was the Arab Spring, there was everything and everything happened. I am thinking of the story of Crimea in 2014. We turned to the other side; the world turned to the other side. We let that invasion take place and no one said anything. In fact, someone claims that we have actually allied ourselves and that we have called for a vote by allying ourselves with Putin's Russia, which would have fought international terrorism. All right, but in the meantime something had happened in that country. Perhaps it will be a memory, it will be the memories of the subsoil, it will be the Russian subsoil that determines these things. I do not want to mention Dostoevsky, but Ivan Karamazov would certainly have thought of Europe, not as a Europe of invasion, but as a cradle of civilizations. Today we must have no doubts and hesitations about the location of our country. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has done well and does well to have a clear, sometimes intransigent, position with regard to certain resistances. To remain faithful to a clear and unequivocal position of the West, at a time when Putin even claims that he is conducting a war against relativism. Don't worry, because that battle against relativism had already won a Polish Pope and then a German Pope. Today we have the action of Pope Francis. This is said by a person who does not attend the church every Sunday, but who is convinced that there is an order in the world and there is the possibility of guaranteeing peace in the world not through the expansion of spheres of influence. This is not a war of conquest, but it seems to me a war of positioning. There is almost the idea that there are empires: no more nations, but empires. The Russian and Chinese empire, which wants to rule the world, against the Western Empire or what remains of it, and, I say softly, the Latin Empire. To support this he was a Russian, who in the 1930s taught Hegel in Paris. That's what he said. That's how it's gonna end. Well, that official, named Kojève, was the one who realized the WTO on behalf of France. Therefore, it was an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who organized international trade, who imagined that this would be the fate of the world, the fate of Europe. We theorized the end of the story, but we are at the end of the story, so always at a new beginning. The beginning can only correspond to concrete acts, that is to say, what was requested in this House the other day during a confrontation with the Government: a concrete commitment for the Ukrainian population, refugees and children, especially those who arrive here without protection, that is, unaccompanied minors. There was a clear commitment from the government. We would have liked to have tabled an amendment, which has been overcome by the desire to impose an agenda which, in fact, we have not been able to present because that is the case. We have arrived in this House without a rapporteur and trust will probably be placed. I have no doubt that the West is still a cradle of values, although complex and complicated, and that many things need to be rethought and revised. Personally I also have many difficulties in recognizing myself in the diffusion of some concepts, but I have no doubt about a fact, namely that Italy must make everything that can be made available to those who fight for the defense of their own self-determination, of their own freedom, of their own people and of their own territory. I think there are no other things to add. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u194	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Member of the Government, the crisis in Ukraine has focused on a subject, that of military spending, which has actually been the subject of a wide-ranging debate and analysis both political and academic over the past few years. In the various contexts of deepening in the Commission, the need to finance more and at the same time rationalise our military spending has been highlighted on several occasions. The great tension caused at this time by a war scenario at the borders of the European Union must not confuse us and distract us from a reform of our security system that is at least necessary. It is recalled that the willingness to commit the Atlantic Alliance member countries to reach 2% of GDP for defence expenditure dates back to the NATO summit in Wales in September 2014. In the conclusions of the summit, this commitment is found in point 14. In recent years our country has demonstrated its will to respect this promise, reversing the trend of lowering military spending that has continued, inexorable, since the post-war period. Therefore, net of today's debate, it is plausible to think that our country has already planned a path that will lead to the fulfilment of commitments made at international level. However, I would stress that it is important not to superimpose the conflict situation at our borders with the increase in defence spending. That would be a big mistake. Talking about rearming is improper, confusing public opinion and does not do justice to the immense work that our armed forces do for our country. Investing in the defence sector means also and above all investing in research and work. It is precisely in the conclusions of the NATO summit mentioned earlier that this concept is expressed. Point 14 calls for allies to spend at least 20% of their military expenditure on research and development, because our security and defence depend both on how much we spend and how we spend. That is why it is certainly important to have a unanimous will reiterated in Parliament. But even more fundamental is to have a clear vision of where to go and how to improve our military spending. Well the quantitative commitment, but that it is accompanied by a commitment of modernization and efficiency. A small remark, which can be useful for a future debate on the subject: to improve defence spending, we must aim to have an increasingly structural vision of interforces, which goes beyond the current approach of armed force divided into closed and separate sectors. With regard to weapon systems, aircraft and boats, we have great Italian industrial excellences that must be protected and pushed for greater cooperation with other major European and world players. The institutions must accompany and support this process. Finally, invest, invest and, I repeat, still invest in the training processes of our staff, which must be trained on the use of complex and constantly updated systems. Let us remember that the role of personnel and therefore of human value within the Armed Forces is also greater than the technological capacity of armaments. Training and constant updates, therefore also wages that are competitive and non mortifying functions, reminding us that our Armed Forces must play a different role than that of the Police Forces. Allow me, Mr President, to thank the great work of our women and our men, who every day take care of the security of our country. They have been fundamental in these two years of pandemics and continue to work daily in the shadows for Italy. Military spending means not only war, but also justice for these people. In conclusion, on the Ukrainian question I would like to say a big thank you to our fellow citizens. In these weeks I have personally witnessed a real race for solidarity, thanks also to the help of the municipalities, to help the Ukrainian population both in terms of sending humanitarian aid and in terms of receiving. A beautiful example of solidarity and closeness, not taken for granted in a period certainly not simple from the economic point of view. It is on this and diplomatic efforts in favour of a peaceful resolution that we must work on, reaffirming all our opposition to any kind of war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u196	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u197	Mr President, a somewhat unusual debate has developed, especially in the Commission. The Decree-Law on Ukraine contains useful and important measures concerning the reception of refugees and businesses, on which, of course, we all agree. This debate has at some point included a destabilising element: the debate on the increase in military spending. What we could say, first of all, is that this increase in military spending must start with an analysis of the data, because if we don't have the data we are wrong with the analysis. The data are very clear and reminds us of the SIPRI, the International Institute of Peace Research in Stockholm: in the world in total, every year, $2,000 billion is spent on defence, of which about 40% from the United States, with $780 billion. In this particularly important context, the European Union spends $230 billion, which is four times - as we have already said - Russia's spending. When we talk about an increase in military spending, we should start thinking about what the objective is, what strategy the European Union wants to achieve. When we talk about these things, we need to figure out where we're going with this. Historically, the United States has always played a fundamental role, that of the "gendarmes of the world"; of course the European Union does not have this claim, but we see that an important re-armament is taking place in Germany. Germany has decided to allocate EUR 100 billion, increasing the total EU spending by as much as 50% on its own. President Draghi also recalled this anomaly of Germany. So we should think about what we all want to do, because if the concept is that arming is used to protect the interests of the peoples of Europe, then theoretically we should do it seriously. So, we shouldn't talk about 2%, maybe we should talk about a lot more. This should theoretically be done if we are to have a say in this matter. Someone in the Commission reminded us of the weight that the United States has within NATO. Then, if we want to increase weight, we do not understand this sudden increase, so effective and so immediate where we want to take it. We should start thinking about these things, because otherwise we're wrong about the target. It is essential to reason on these things, also because then we see what happens. The Global Firepower, which is an association that analyses the military powers, reminds us that the first nation and military power of course are the United States, followed by Russia, but Italy in the European Union is second behind France. Our Armed Forces are important, powerful and someone outside of Italy tells us so. All this happens - the ARERA told us just now - in a year when electricity expenditures have increased by 83% and gas expenditure by 73 percent. Then the problem is a priority: what is the priority of our action? Is it protecting people, as we did during Count I and Count II, when we made 130 billion euros available to people and businesses? [[Applause]] Let us remember what we have done: EUR 130 billion. First, citizens and businesses and then everything else, because otherwise we completely miss the goal. When we see this situation, we are told that we must remember why we are here: we are here to make people's interest and that's it. That's all we have to do. I would like you to think about these issues and what it means - as I said earlier - to increase military spending in order to ensure that the European Union has its strategic autonomy. Well, if we go towards strategic autonomy, this involves things and we could all talk about it tomorrow. We could think about what a real strategic autonomy of the European Union entails, considering that other things also happen in the industrial field, as we recalled when President Draghi came: for example, the large companies of chip production that come to invest in Europe; a somewhat strange strategic autonomy, if we want to be truly autonomous. This is a very important speech. When we talk about military spending we have to remember that Law 244 of 2012 in a specific note that we have to achieve a balance: 50 percent for personnel expenditure, 25 percent for the exercise and 25 percent for real estate, let's call them that. We could call them guns, too. The balance today is all shifted to the weight of the staff: 65% of the expenditure is in fact for the staff. So when we talk about increased spending, to balance that percentage distribution, between 50, 25 and 25 percent, where do we have to go to put the money? When we reason, we must really be very, very careful about the actions we do. I repeat: I would perhaps like to see this House talking about the EUR 100 billion that Germany has decided to put on its military spending. It is not secondary, I would say that it is important, although it certainly does not concern me, because we know how Germany can finance its industry. Perhaps, however, we should consider what our country's role is on these issues and on the main moment of our action. I repeat: this speech has been made even a little 'poor and strange. In the decree-law on the crisis in Ukraine there are absolutely important and useful things, but to think that in 2023-2024 military spending is increased by as much as 13 billion euros, as to say, makes us doubt what is the best action we must put in place. This was the clear, clean, clear and clear position that the Movimento 5 Stars took in the debate that we did. [[Applause]] It also seems a little strange that an agenda presented by the opposition was accepted by the Government without even including the words "to assess the appropriateness of". [[Applause]] It is a bit strange and very singular, just as it is that we have not been able to vote, even though one of the majority forces has expressed itself absolutely contrary to that action. They are all a bit strange and so we have once again found ourselves alone, as has happened so many times, to support a battle that, I repeat, is always in the interest of people. People outside this House are asking us for help to pay the bills and we need to intervene on some things. Why can we not imagine intervening on some important ganglia, when we read that the price of gas, of which we have spoken so much, is linked to the title transfer facility (TTF), that is to say to that exchange system that happens on the Dutch stock exchange, and we see that everything happens with the futures, which are born as insurance bonds, but then became speculation? When we see that the futures traded on the gas market are 10 times the amount of gas available on the market, maybe we should start to think about what it means to compress finance a little bit and expand the economy a little bit. It is with the economy that we produce jobs, not with finance. Maybe we should start doing this kind of reasoning, which is very complex. We should take them to the World Trade Organisation, but we must not be afraid to say certain things, otherwise the concept is always that we are wrong about the objective. We have a clear position on this decree-law, as I have already said, and the issue concerns all the things we have said. What more can we do? We can try to be very careful and we must remember what the action is and of course continue to clarify that there are an attacker and an attacker... president. Please conclude Senator Cioffi, because the time at your disposal is already exhausted. CIOFFI (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. So Russia is the aggressor and Ukraine is the aggressor: this is what we reiterate in a clear and clear way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish, you've already exceeded your time by one minute. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I shall finish. If we do not put citizens' interests in front of other types of interests, we are wrong about the objective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u198	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, today we are going to vote on the decree-law by which the Government has ordered, on behalf of the Italian people, that it does not want to send weapons to the Ukrainians. Thanks to this decree-law we are therefore officially part of a conflict that does not involve us directly, but that, also because of this reckless act, could last longer than expected, with serious damage to both Ukrainian citizens, used as human shields by their own irregular armies, and to Europeans, who will see the harmful consequences, both on their productive activities, and on their standard of living and their safety. In the European Council, which took part on behalf of Italy Mario Draghi a few days ago, it was established that the war will continue until Putin leaves Ukraine without conditions and the internationally recognized borders are restored, i.e. until the republics of Donbass return to unite with Ukraine. "Without conditions" also means safeguarding the license for the Ukrainians to carry on with impunity the persecutions, official and not, of the Filorussi, even with an increased military endowment at the expense of the Europeans and the Italian people. Before Putin invaded Ukraine, Europe tolerated violations of the human rights of pro-Russian citizens in Donbass without blinking an eye and tolerated that Ukraine did not respect the Minsk Pacts and therefore did not dissolve the irregular armed neo-Nazi troops to the teeth even from the USA at the time of the Maidan coup. Ukraine has also hosted on its territory several laboratories funded by the USA that produce biological weapons and three NATO military exercises in 2021 and has repeatedly provoked Russia, in the days before the invasion, intensifying aggressions on the republics of the Donbass. Today, Europe and the US therefore impose inadmissible conditions on Russia. They intend to promote them all the way under the table, despite the fact that the two parties involved seem to be agreeing? Beyond the Atlantic, in fact, we do not want peace. What, then, is the noble end of this refined Western elite, who wants to export democracy? Putin's isolation and removal to be replaced by a puppet, he too is prone to the interests of the overseas world, as we Europeans are. And the desirable destiny for a country rich in raw materials and culture would be to renounce its dignity and autonomy and sovereignty in exchange for Netflix and McDonald's? We would never have imagined seeing a Head of Government call another publicly "butcher," "dictator" and "murderer"; we would never have imagined that the President of the Italian Council would take the sides of a newspaper headline that explicitly chanted the murder of the Head of State of the Russian Federation. That of Europe and the US is an irresponsible course, first of all towards the Ukrainian people used as cannon meat; then towards the European peoples who suffer all the repercussions of the masochistic sanctions, which have been wanted by the USA against Russia and which result only in an advantage for our Atlantic allies. This was not the Europe we expected. We wanted the Europe of peoples, which may be an alternative, in a multipolar world, to the USA, the Russian Federation, China; that it should be respectful of differences, of the principle of self-determination of peoples; that it should demand respect for its cultural peculiarities. And what did we get today? A confederation of States governed by a prone oligarchy to bank and financial interests made in the USA, in whose name it is willing to cancel the interests of the individual nations and of all put together, except then to define oligarchies fora operating in the countries of others. Until a few months ago, you asked us to give up our freedom in exchange for health and safety; Today you are asking us to put our lives and our security at risk in exchange for the freedom of another people, so that they may continue to dispose of them also to oppress internal minorities. Your policy is schizophrenic and unacceptable and the Italian people do not share it. That people want you to vote no today to send weapons to Ukraine. Today we can turn history around, exercising our role in a responsible way at last. History will remember the names of those who will vote for this measure today, including... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u200	Conclude, Senator Garnet.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u201	GRANATO (Mixed). I was saying, especially if we proceed with a vote of confidence. And he won't be gracious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u202	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u203	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining the Ukraine decree today. In these days we have discovered that Ukraine is a country much closer to us than perhaps we imagined, and that is probably also why Italy is and will be at the side of Ukraine. We all have relations with this country: we have perhaps discovered this in recent days. What happened in the previous months? There has been a crisis of a model to which we have referred for a long time, that of multilateralism. In recent years, however, we could see that a new polarization was taking place, that a new geopolitical bipolarism was being determined and the anachronistic signals coming, for example, from North Korea brought us back at least thirty or forty years. These signals have led to the events of thirty days ago and to what we are living these days. Unfortunately very often in these weeks we have heard the word "choose," we hear that we have to choose which side to be on. Italy, however, has already chosen and the League has very clear the Atlantic political location of the country. [[Applause]] I believe that the Western world is reacting very well, measuring actions and reactions; we are doing so in a conscious and mature way, and that is why we have asked in recent days that words also be measured in talks with those who are opponents and even enemies at the moment, because words, especially at diplomatic level, are also fundamental. Unfortunately, in these hours the debate has expired and it has been misguided and instrumental in my opinion about the famous increase in military spending to 2%. We also heard this in this House a while ago and we heard it harshly in the Commission yesterday. I don't think it's important to say that this is an issue that has anything to do with it or that it has nothing to do with it. It is clear that, during an ongoing war, one of the main themes is that of military spending. It is important to stress that what has been done about increasing military spending to 2% is an unnecessary controversy, because it is a commitment that the Government has already made to the House, that the Government will honour, so it is not possible for anyone to sing victory, whether or not an agenda will be retabled in this House, since, if the perfect bicameralism is still valid, the commitment made to the House is also valid. The thing that surprises me is that very often those who hurricane themselves against the military world, arms and defence systems are people - I have to say in here - who absolutely do not know what a weapon, a defence system or logistical support are today. I say this because we must not hide behind what is ultimately the reality of the facts. Italy has never denied what is written in the Constitution and - I can make a perhaps trivial statement, but it is the reality - we discussed this decree in the Commissions of Foreign Affairs and Defence, we obviously have a Ministry of Defence, so there is no need to reiterate these concepts. Italy has already chosen the side and the attitude to be taken, which is not cobelligerante, because it is a term that does not exist and makes no sense - it suffices to see the commitment and effort on the ground of the Italians in Ukraine to give a response to this statement, which I find truly disconcerting - but rather it is in line with the Constitution. We have an expense and the facts of these days remind us how important it is to have defence systems. It is useless, however, in my opinion, to resort to the cost in billions that would result in this increase in military spending, if, besides that, we do not add not so much as military spending, but for example the turnover of our defence companies. Therefore, to point out as a negative fact the increase in military spending simply because they take away money from the Italians is absolutely unacceptable, because the state budget has its own construction and its own architecture and this is an important item. These days we're discovering how important it is to have a defense system. In other voices we will help - and we will do so as we have done, as we will continue to ask in this House and as we will do in a few days - our Italian families. In conclusion, I repeat that basically the money and funding we are talking about is the money that grabs the world of Defense. The League has always reiterated in these days that the main road is that of diplomacy, we hope to arrive in the next few days - and even if the voices that arrive in these last hours are not reassuring, we will continue to hope and work for this - at the immediate end of the conflict, as soon as possible, because we believe that peace is the horizon to which we tend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u204	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u205	Mr President, I have listened with great interest to the debate of my fellow Members, whose fundamental argument, in my opinion, is that which was already presented by President Draghi, and in particular which was clearly taken up by Mr Zanda. Because in Ukraine we are fighting for freedom throughout Europe, because Russia would not want to stop the Ukrainian invasion, but then to continue in the countries of Western Europe and therefore Ukraine is resisting for us, also for our freedom, there is an Italian obligation to send weapons to the Ukrainian resistance and the need to raise arms expenditure to 2%. If this argument were founded and demonstrated, it would be acceptable in its effects; I too would be of the idea that, if there were evidence or a reasonable expectation that Russia is going to go beyond the Ukrainian gate and arrive in Europe, the consequences would be to stop it there and it would be necessary to crush an opponent and an enemy. The comparison with Hitler would then be justified; if it had stopped in time, if Europe and its allies had stopped it in time, major disasters would have been avoided. Luckily, though, I do not think this argument is proven. I see no evidence to suggest that Russia's, albeit censorable, aggression is the first in a series of steps. If, therefore, the objectives that we are putting at the head of Russia and Putin are not those of an escalation and a progressive aggression of Europe, then the thesis that wants to send weapons, a war at all costs, a reaction from the whole of Europe and NATO and even an increase in military spending is not a necessary consequence. On the contrary, it could be harmful; it is clear that with petrol a fire is not extinguished, just as with weapons a war is not extinguished and human lives are not saved, sending tanks and missiles, just as we do not avoid a worsening of this or future wars with a military escalation. In fact, if Italy, Europe and NATO have more weapons, the opposing bloc will do the same; instead, we must aim for a de-escalation, because we will all be safer if there are fewer weapons, no more. That is what I am offering you and which I invite you to think about. That is the basic issue, then there are all the technical questions about how the debate took place in the Commission, but I will talk about that tomorrow when the question of trust is raised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u206	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u207	Mr President, for the second time today I am speaking about two decree-laws, derogations on derogations. The measure under consideration, in article 1, paragraph 1, strengthens the initiatives of NATO, sending up to 2023 military personnel and resources for a total of about 170 million euros (I tell the citizens more than colleagues, because it is good that they know exactly how things are), for surveillance devices of the air and naval space of the Alliance and for the use of the force to high readiness for military interventions within the quantant'ore in the areas of crisis. It is a real firepower, very dangerous: therefore, it is as if we were at war; we are, because we are ready. In violation of Article 11 of the Constitution, according to which Italy repudiates the war, Decree-Law No. 14 of 2022, in which the content of Decree-Law No. 16 of 2022 was transfused, authorizes Article 2-a - which has been added - until 31 December 2022 the transfer of military equipment, equipment and equipment in favor of Ukraine, by way of derogation from Law No. 185 of 1990; by decrees the list of armaments will be identified. I tell the citizens to read what is on the list of weapons: nuclear, biological and chemical weapons; firearms, automatics, bombs, mines and rockets. We are derogating from our principles and values, and the citizens have understood that. They tell us to say no to sending weapons, to say no to war, because they have understood the seriousness of the situation, but we do not listen to them. Instead, I want to listen to them, because the propaganda of the mainstream says things, but the citizens have understood that it is anything else and the situation is more serious. We are told that the toxic products of the states of emergency are called derogations, by which laws, rules, rules, conventions, treaties and agreements are bypassed and not only for the sending of weapons, but also for energy measures. Within Article 5-a, added to the decree-law under consideration, there are derogations of reference to electricity generation plants. We've forgotten everything, we've entered the war, so we're in crisis. Coal and oil are used, simplifications are envisaged for the adoption of measures aimed at increasing the availability of gas. You also ask for the PNRR to be amended. This is the right time to do it! No, we're not, the citizens don't want it! [[Applause]] There are also derogations related to the war in Ukraine relating to the greening obligations of agricultural land: we will go to cultivate and place plant protection products on soils that were to be inert, left to rest. What are we doing? The debate over the last few days has focused on increasing military spending, so I make a request to the 5 Star Movement, which, through Count, said that these military expenditures should not increase and the citizens gave him confidence, precisely because he had said that. What will the 5 Star Movement do? [[Applause]] We're crazy. We are renouncing civilization, peaceful cooperation and solidarity between States. We have forgotten the pandemic and we are diving into a new era: that of nuclear war, the law of the strongest and the worst human instincts, which in centuries of civilizations we thought we had mitigated in favor of maintaining the social pact. Let's just say no more war. Not peace and war together! Enough, let's say enough war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u208	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u209	Mr President, I think we are all for peace and none of us are for war. We are working precisely to achieve peace as soon as possible, also thanks to our diplomacy. Coming to the point of the Ukraine decree, Mr President, I have always asked myself a question. The issue in that area has been known since 2014: since then we have certainly not made a policy of diversification, so much so that today 40% of the gas the European Union imports it from Russia, "financing it." We must therefore be careful, on the one hand, to put sanctions - rightly - but, on the other hand, we remember that the European Union today buys 40% of gas from Russia. Maybe all these not from the last ten years (no to the TAP, no to the TAV, no to everything) have led us to this situation of dependence on Russia. Our country needs a vision, also as a policy of gas and energy. We must have a propensity for the future, be able to talk to yeses and give a vision of the next ten years. Otherwise, we will find ourselves as today, always with a decree Ukraine and always living in urgency. With urgency, however, we do not build a great country. The second point, which I raised also through a question, is that Italy is lucky, even at a geographical level, to be at the centre of the Mediterranean. We must therefore begin to have this vision and also relations with North Africa, with countries from which to import gas in order not to be a "hostage" of a single nation. We must also be able to find solutions within our country and to have relations with the Balkan countries. I put a question, about fifteen days ago, about the electricity pipeline that connects Italy with Montenegro, where there is already a structure and a cable that imports electricity. It would take a second to double the electricity to import into our country. To start having these vision and visional relationships, which also lead us to connections with all the Balkan countries, in this specific case with Montenegro, for us could be one of the solutions: a little on one side and a little on the other, it is better to diversify and not have a single important supplier. [[Applause]] Mr President, allow me then to take a political step. The size of a country is measured by its foreign policy. We are all seeing in the newspapers that a passage is taking place in Turkey to find a diplomatic route between Ukraine and Russia. I would have liked this passage to have taken place in our country, since we have a very important class of ambassadors, to whom I commend, because, together with all our staff abroad, they are truly extraordinary people. However, this is not the case. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister a question, in the sense of a reflection: are the terms he is using, which I have heard in some television broadcasts, adequate to achieve an important diplomatic route between Ukraine and Russia? We are trying to become the diplomatic reference point in order to find a solution between the two states. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u210	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u211	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly support the Government's decree-law and, in order to clear the field of abstract and unnecessary discussions, we have no third-party position. Our position is very clear: the responsibilities of Putin and Russia are very serious, they have no justification and they undermine the fundamental principle of self-determination of a people. Therefore, we support the action of the Government and Ukraine and also the resistance of the Ukrainian people. On this point it would be good if there were no misunderstandings among all of us. I believe that the unity of the European Union is fundamental at the moment. This is the field on which we must play an important game, but some more reflection is necessary. Some colleagues before me have rightly said that the story of the invasion of Ukraine produces a radical change in the world. This is very true, and indeed, indeed, we had received signals of it even before and in a very significant way regarding Russia's interventions for Crimea and the failure of Western politics in Afghanistan, Syria and Libya. In short, we are facing a change and this requires a new thought that does not question the clarity, firmness and harshness of the condemnation of the right choices that we and Europe have made in recent weeks, starting with sanctions, knowing that this country will pay a higher price than others and certainly than the United States. However, these were right choices. But there is one thing that does not convince me and I want to say it explicitly. My heart opened when President Draghi said not to slip into the wars of civilization. It is right and sacrosanct: a complex and complicated world cannot be reduced to one, because, when it is done, a situation of greater insecurity is created. As I said in another speech, we must have the wisdom that others do not have and, without prejudice to all the initiatives that we have promoted, build a path of diplomacy that can draw a new idea of security in the world. I say this briefly in these terms: we need a new Helsinki, to take care of everyone's safety. Our greatest qualities on the values of democracy and freedom are measured right here, on the ground, that is, if we have the ability to draw a perspective. Of course, we did well not to allow Russia to conquer Ukraine in two days, but that is not the point. I put another more general one, which concerns even the history and pattern of this country's foreign policy, a great foreign policy. I can say, without any kind of suspicion, since it is my culture of origin, that it was not exactly comparable to those that built this foreign policy. I am talking about Moro, Fanfani and Alcide De Gasperi, whom we have rightly mentioned today, together with her daughter, in this House. Then there was Andreotti, as far as the Middle East is concerned; in short, we understood each other. Are we able to re-produce this tension? Some colleagues from Forza Italia have rightly mentioned, during other debates, the effort of Pratica di Mare. In short, this is the great terrain of Europe and we must not forget it, especially now. Far away from me ask the Republic not to honour its commitments. In 2014 we made commitments that no one wants to reverse: attention, however; since then has something happened? I think so. Something very serious has happened, ladies and gentlemen. What is it that puts us... [[Brusio. References by the President]] Thank you, President, but I'm moving on quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u212	Although she mainly likes to speak to the PD Group, it is right that everyone listens to her.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u213	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). You're right. I'm a self-criticist right now, ma'am. [[Comments]] Let me make this reasoning, which is important. Europe faces a challenge: its foreign policy and European defence, which is not and cannot be superimposed on NATO. President Draghi said it must be complementary and we agree. With regard to 2% - I say this sincerely - I find that dealing with such a fundamental issue with an agenda is a completely inadequate simplification. Dragons said (I want to read it again, because he said it last week): The important thing, however, is that at this time when everyone is talking about defence, about increasing military spending and some countries have decided to increase military spending in an extraordinarily significant way, it is important that these increases be announced within a European strategy and not within a national strategy. [[Applause]] You understand well that the risk of moving forward with national strategies is quite serious, especially in the perspective (we have already seen it, among other things). This is the framework on which we must discuss and, on the basis of this, we must consider how to take a step forward, as quickly as possible, on a common foreign policy and on a common defence policy, rationalising expenditure and defining the governance of this defence policy, because we would not want a tomorrow to find ourselves in complicated situations in managing it. That needs to be clarified now. I am for European defence; in this context we must think about the choices to be made. Of course, Minister Guerini is right... President. You should finish, Senator Errani, because you went two minutes past your time. Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). ...with balance and a capacity to take into account the limits of Italian public finance. This is a point on which, beyond the wrong narratives, we must give an answer to the Italian citizens, who have their own thought with which we must dialogue absolutely. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u214	I hope the other colleagues didn't get hurt if I gave you two minutes beyond your time, President Errani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u215	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u216	I was talking to Gasparri about his dad.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u217	I know that, Mr President, because in those days we saw television together, when the Berlin Wall fell and when we talked at home about the fact that all the people, who were under the old Soviet Union, were running to come to the West, to have our economy and our freedom. It is for this reason that I was quite impressed by the surreal debate that has been created around this decree-law and I believe that this is due to two substantive reasons, the first of which - to which I will devote a couple of minutes - concerns the content and merit of the measures. We cannot pass on the idea that we are voting on a decree-law that brings arms to Ukraine, because this means making a sort of operation for which a fake problem is created to mount a fake case, which actually, in fact and in the cards, does not exist. Today we are going to vote for the conversion of a decree-law, among other things already voted in the House, with which important things are established: the participation of our country, while defending the Atlantic Alliance's airspace; naval surveillance; the presence in Latvia and only for six months - so there is also optimism from this point of view - to protect an area that interests us, the border area. This decree-law doesn't talk about sending weapons, it's about food. Do we want to feed, I think, these soldiers who go to do the logistical support work? Or give them the bulletproof vests? I am also talking in particular about self-defense for journalists, for reporters, about the functionality of embassies, crisis unit devices, security measures for gas, measures for companies that have suffered from import problems and export problems, especially with Ukraine and Russia. Then, of course, we welcome the refugees, with everything they entail from the point of view of spending and logistics. It is also envisaged in this decree-law an aid to Ukraine in what are defined equipment and which would be called "non-lethal military equipment" and then it is clearly specified, on the basis of an act of address voted by the Chambers, to the vast majority of the members of the Chambers (and for parts separated also from the opposition force), the cession of material means and military equipment. This thing has become, in the collective imagination, a shipment of weapons, as if we were sending weapons. On the other hand, we are giving - and we also hope to give good material - the means and equipment to a people who have been militarily attacked in Europe, very close to us. We cannot be deceptive and we must learn to explain the provisions on the subject, because with the fake stories, with the narratives that have neither head nor tail, we are the first to blame for the "non-knowledge" of the people who then think that there are conspiracy or such things. This then becomes a land where the countries that want us badly, or at least who wants us badly, sow to divide us, to weaken us and to represent us as a country... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We must absolutely avoid the divisions that are made from outside to represent ourselves as a divided country: a piece that looks at China, a piece that looks at Russia; no, we are European, we are in the Atlantic Alliance and we must respect the armed forces. Mr President, we must not forget that tomorrow the famous state of emergency ends and today the General Son greeted us: the Armed Forces are also and above all this. So instead of discussing an armament, I think we could thank the general and the army for all they've done in the pandemic this evening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u218	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u219	Mr President, I wish to greet the members of the Government, all the honourable Members and all the Members present. We have reached many points this evening, but I would like to return to the root of the problem. Today we are discussing this measure after Vladimir Putin's government has decided to attack a sovereign state called Ukraine in a proditory and predatory way. It is an invasion that has a bit broken the bubble of comfort in which we have lived for decades, thinking that these kind of wars belonged to the past, at least in our geopolitical quadrant, in our area, in our Europe. No, you don't. We have learned with dismay that an isolated state at international level that is not part of a strong alliance is prey to the strongest, the most aggressive, the most overbearing. This leads us first of all to unequivocally condemn, from the point of view of international law but also of ethics, Vladimir Putin's government for what it is doing in Ukraine. But this also leads us to reflect on a conflict that has only appearance in the military dimension. There is a very important political issue. When we look at the countries of Eastern Europe, we think of sovereign states, precisely identified: Poland, Romania, Ukraine itself. But if we took the flight and looked from the Kremlin towards the West, the vision on that side would not be that of sovereign states, but of a security, selfish and self-centered dimension in a certain sense but understandable at a historical level, and illegal and illegitimate under contemporary international law, so Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic countries do not have the right to choose independently which world to belong to: whether to the world of Western democracies or to the sphere of autocracies. They simply have to remain at the service of Russia's security. This political vision is absolutely irreconcilable. We have a very serious problem which is not simply Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The problem is what we want to do with those principles that we have so far praised and that have proud us, at least in words. Can a sovereign state decide to join NATO and the European Union or should it be "the bully of the neighborhood" the referee of the international position of a democracy? We as democracies are dependent on Russian gas - a colleague of mine said it before and he is right - and clearly we must choose whether we are people and countries of principle, coherent, or whether we must be merchants who sell their principles of freedom in the name of money when talking about the other person. We are talking about spending on the defence of our country, which is not simply the defence of our country, but the defence of NATO and a political system. If we do not think that peace, which is not submission, and freedom, which is not anarchy, are not discounted values, but require sacrifice, if we do not put this in our head - I repeat - it is much better that we close our countries, close our parliaments, close our defense expenses and give ourselves or sell ourselves to the first "bullo of the neighborhood," called Vladimir Putin or Xi Jinping. I recommend that you read the joint statement that Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin signed on February 4, 2022, twenty days before the invasion and the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games. In this statement, in addition to the strategic collaboration on various points that I am not here to outline because I do not have the time, above all it is reinterpreted to the use and consumption of two dictatorships the concept of democracy, saying that there are models and paths of democracy alternative to those that the West selfishly wants to impose on the world and that China and Russia have found their model of democracy, because the Chinese and Russian peoples have chosen two non-democratic regimes. Think of the circular reasoning: democracy is that the people choose not to be governed democratically. It is written very clearly and it is shocking. I therefore call on those Members who rightly say that peace is a value. I do not agree that peace is subjection; I share peace, but I also share the fact that we must be consistent in defending ourselves and our own principles and, if someone among our electors - ours in the sense of the whole hemicycle - is not convinced of the goodness of military spending for the defense of the country, that is, for their defence, it is our job to teach him, to talk about it. We cannot bend to fake news and to the propaganda of our opponents, which exists, because - I repeat - the policy of dictatorships that say that it is democracy to choose the dictatorship is antithetical to us. We therefore have the responsibility, not only to support the decree, 2% and the action of the Draghi Government, but we also have the task of making it clear to our voters, of each parliamentary group represented here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u220	Senator Barboni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u221	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I must repeat today, as in all the history of Forza Italia, that, both when we were in the government and when we were in opposition, as a serious and responsible political force, we have always been on the side of the nation, the armed forces, freedom and democracy. What has been happening since 24 February, as more than one colleague mentioned earlier, is bringing back to the heart of Europe the line of fracture, not only military, but also political and systemic that we had deluded ourselves had been overcome by the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Berlin Wall. Many had then considered that the new dangerous challenges were only those brought by Islamic fundamentalism, after the attack on the Twin Towers and in relation to the rise of terrorism. It was believed that the winds of war and repression could come exclusively from some dangerous dictator in North Korea or Venezuela; it was mistakenly believed that the mother of all problems was China's overpowering economy. It had not been understood or underestimated the message born from the end of some European political hegemonies that had led to the destruction, for example, of the former Yugoslavia, a federal reality that shared similar ethnicities, but different, which, after the failure of the political glue given by General Tito, turned into an armed clash without neighborhood, which inflamed the last decade of the last century. Europe and the West should have responded together to these systemic challenges, which are challenges to our values, our culture and our way of life, exporting an idea of Europe and the West to all peoples and nations of Greek-Roman and Jewish-Christian tradition, even those freed from the game of communist dictatorship. In order to do this, it took and takes mediation skills, the art of convergence and strategic vision. It'll take, it'll take, and it'll take capable interpreters. In other words, leadership is needed and political leaders are needed to create the conditions for its implementation. Let me say here that it is all too easy to say and recognize that only one man, one enlightened and capable leader, was able to interpret this political knot; only Silvio Berlusconi understood that between the countries of NATO and Russia had to lay the foundations for a convergence of perspectives and strategic interests and in 2002, in Pratica di Mare, he initiated this virtuous process that would bring a better future for the world, for Europe and for Italy. Malcolm X said that history is the memory of a people and, without a memory, man is reduced to the rank of lower animal. In fact, only those with no political leadership have no memory of it. To think that the ruins of the communist regime, made up of oppression, invasions, repression, the artificial famine with which Stalin massacred millions of Ukrainians, the ruthless repression of the anti-communist patriotic resistance in Lithuania, the Russian tanks in Budapest and Prague, did not deeply mark the sentiment of those peoples once freed from dictatorship not only towards the communist system, but towards the country with which the system identified itself. Those peoples who have chosen the freedom of democracy have turned to Europe, asking to be part of our community of free peoples and we have a duty to be on their side, with those who have joined the Atlantic Alliance and with those who, like Ukraine, with the Atlantic Alliance and Europe were building a relationship of mutuality without any hostile significance towards Russia. On the origin of this conflict there are, in any case, objective elements of discussion such as discrimination of Russian minorities in some areas of Ukraine or the Azov Battalion with mercenaries exhibiting swastikas. It is not our job to exegesis the conflict; the Government and Parliament have a duty to respond to the geopolitical, economic and social context that these events have brought about. The approval of this decree-law, with the first urgent measures, are a tangible sign of the response of the Italian people. Politics also has a duty to prevent wars in the third millennium. We therefore urge the Government to act in the wake of mediation, leading as soon as possible to a ceasefire and an effective negotiating solution. Last but not least, we must reaffirm that where there are violations of territorial sovereignty, where there are pseudo-intelligent bombs, where there is destruction and deaths of civilians, without whether or not but, Forza Italia in the wake of the constitutional dictation, the founding spirit of our movement and in respect of the inalienable rights of the citizens of Italy and of the world, has been, is and will always be on the side of freedom and self-determination of peoples. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u222	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u223	Mr President, I do not know if I will use all the time available, tomorrow our colleague Isabella Rauti will speak on the explanation of vote on the occasion of trust and there we will also go into detail of the many reasons that push us to this step that we could have avoided, but to which you pushed us with your irresponsible conduct. I would simply like to remind the House and the few Members that what has happened these days has remained. I have read and heard surreal reconstructions of what we have all lived together in the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Unbelievable things have happened, but it does not mean that they are positive, indeed they are certainly very negative, especially for the country that has the misfortune to be administered and governed by a majority that has lost control of itself, at such a serious moment in international political life. I said that incredible things happen; it happens, for example, that Brothers of Italy present an agenda in the Commission to make a very trivial request. The agenda simply repeats things that have already happened, repeats quote statements of the President of the Council Draghi on some international commitments that Italy has signed several times in recent years; repeats what already contained in a similar agenda approved by a very large majority in the House and simply asks that those commitments that were worth to the House a week before, may also apply to the Senate the following week. Instead, in the turn of the incredible things, it happens that the Movimento 5 Stars probably wanted to use our agenda for its political purposes, to boycott the majority of which is part. The government, in fact, in the face of such a linear and transparent agenda, does the only thing it could do: it welcomes it. The Government, in fact, cannot fail to accept an agenda that reflects the historic position of Brothers of Italy, which existed before the birth of this Executive and this legislature because it was part of our electoral programme already many years before. The Government therefore does one simple, trivial thing: it accepts the agenda that makes statements on which the Government had already expressed itself positively the week before in the House. Of course, this is not enough. It happens that a former President of the Council of this country, in office for three years, goes to the current President of the Council, whom he at least formally supports, and tells him that he does not agree. It happens that the President of the Council even addresses the President of the Republic to confirm the line of the country, in line with the international commitments entered into. The next day, however, another film is staged, that is, this childish and ridiculous attempt - I repeat: childish and ridiculous - of the Movimento 5 Stars, which convinces the majority, which is now in disarray, to stage the following brilliant stunt. The agenda was accepted by the Government. This is history and you can't go back from history. However, we are clever, so we commit ourselves not to go to the House with the rapporteur, we ensure that the Commission does not finish its work, so - think it found it ingenious - that it arrives in the Chamber with the old text, so that the agenda accepted by the Government no longer exists. Magically it doesn't exist anymore, it never existed, it never happened that the government accepted that order a day. We therefore have the waltz of hypocrisy: the 5 Stars pretend not to know that the rest of the majority is against its positions, while the rest of the majority pretends not to know that the relative majority parliamentary force, namely the 5 Stars, is against what the rest of the majority supports. This is the political framework in which we are about to vote for a government that does not have a majority in the matter of foreign policy at the most serious moment in republican history of the last forty years. [[Applause]] That's what we're talking about. The tricks, the hypocrisies, the regulatory games in which you are very good are not enough to hide this simple truth. To my five remaining colleagues in this House I would like to say that if they have the courage of their opinions (true courage, not fake courage) they must take paper and pen and write an agenda in which they say: we do not recognize ourselves in the statements of President Draghi, we do not recognize ourselves in the foreign policy of this Government, we do not recognize ourselves as said by the President of the Council in the Chamber. They had to say this, or they could do something even simpler, that is to call their Minister for Foreign Affairs (because they express the Minister for Foreign Affairs) and say to him: dear Minister, which side are you on? Are you with Dragons or are you with us? If, as I imagine, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is loyally and faithfully consistent with your positions, why has he not spoken? Why didn't you say what you think? How long do we have to wait to know what the Minister of Foreign Affairs thinks about the position of the Movimento 5 Star Group to which he belongs? In this context, can we, as an opposition, even remotely imagine voting in favour of a measure, which we share on the substance, knowing that that vote would give strength to a majority and a government that is irresponsible at a time of utmost seriousness? The world observes us, looks at us and wonders how it is possible that a country, which is in a difficult situation like the rest of the world, is governed by a majority that does not have a military policy and a shared foreign policy; that betrays the international commitments entered into by the same Government, by previous governments and by the same majority. Majority in which a gentleman who was the President of the Council sits and now says things opposite to what he said only a year or six months ago. This is the majority. This is the majority of a government that is called "the best," but that makes us disfigure internationally. That is why we maintain our clarity of positions, we maintain our coherence, we maintain our willingness to always vote in favour of Italian interests, especially when our credibility at international level is at stake, but we cannot vote for trust in a government that has behaved in this way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u224	Senator Porta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u225	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when I first entered this House just over two months ago, I never imagined that my first speech would be on this subject. For a generation like mine, but I could say how ours, addressing most colleagues, war is not an abstract word. We met her through the stories of our parents, the sufferings and also the victims among the family. Yet the war has knocked again at our gates, at the gates of Europe. As the secretary of our party, Enrico Letta, has said well, we all realize that war leads to upheavals in consciences in the field of economy, society and also politics. We are experiencing a very important moment, but also very delicate, full of tension and conflict, because we would never have imagined living a situation of conflict, a situation of death and destruction. We are all working, even today, to achieve a ceasefire and peace as soon as possible. The brutal aggression, as almost all of us have called it, in this House too, of Ukraine by Russia, has involved us in a strong and direct way, as people, as countries, as democratic institutions and requires answers to meet this challenge. A brutal, unjustified attack, which has indiscriminately struck civilians and soldiers, to whom fortunately the majority of the international community, the European Union in particular, responded with a compactness that probably surprised Vladimir Putin himself. In just over a month of bombing by the Russian army, there are more than 2,000 civilian casualties in Ukraine, including hundreds of children. As reported by several humanitarian organisations, the real number of civilian victims is very likely to be much higher. It should be pointed out that most of the victims of the invasion are due to the uncontrolled and massive use of weapons and explosives within urban areas, where attacks with heavy artillery and multiple-launched rockets have been reported. A devastating impact, which seems to worsen day by day: more than 650,000 people have remained without electricity, 130,000 without gas. We are talking about 1.7 million displaced persons and almost 7 million refugees within Ukraine itself. Compared to this picture, the Italian Government, with this decree, resolved a state of emergency until December 31, 2022. The measure consists of four parts. The first, so much discussed and so much controversy generated, provides for the transfer of defence equipment to Ukraine in full international legality, according to Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, which provides for the right to self-defense of a people who are attacked. If there are some lukewarm hopes of reaching a peace agreement today, we owe it precisely to the extraordinary and for some unexpected self-defense capacity of the Ukrainian people towards the aggressor. A second part of the decree deals with the unexpected level of risk for the normal functioning of the national natural gas system, with the provision of measures to deal with it. A third part includes very important measures relating to the reception of refugees, which perhaps have been discussed too little in this debate. Let us remember that in Italy there is one of the largest Ukrainian communities in Europe, with 250,000 people to whom 75,000 have been added these days. To this community goes our solidarity and to the families and municipalities that are providing the maximum effort of the Government and the support of Parliament. Finally - I would like to remind you because it is significant - there is a fund to finance support measures for Ukrainian students, researchers and teachers so that they can carry out their activities at universities, institutions of high artistic and musical education and research bodies. This is a point to which President Draghi, precisely in his reply in the Senate, has dedicated a particular attention that I want to emphasize, because I believe that the theme of welcoming and opening to students and researchers, not only Ukrainian but all over the world, must be addressed and supported with ever greater organicity and seriousness and not only in a moment of emergency. Allow me to conclude by focusing on two aspects on which our debate has focused and which are central to the decree-law: the reception of refugees and the Italian commitment to arms spending. On the first side, I would like to stress the great humanitarian intervention that has already led Europe to allocate EUR 600 million in the budget and, above all, the fact that, for the first time, the European directive has been applied which provides for the possibility of temporary protection for those fleeing the war, not only - let us remember - to Ukrainian citizens, but to all citizens of other countries in Ukraine who need assistance, security and protection in our countries. It is an unprecedented answer and Italy must also play its part in this respect. This measure is fully part of the effort to give support not only to the Ukrainian resistance, but also to the reception of the thousands of refugees who for over a month have chosen our country as a goal of solidarity and security. With regard to the debate that has stirred up so many minds and that - I understand - also concerns the consciences of each of us, I would like to remind you - I am of course referring to the progressive increase in military expenditure - which was our Minister of Defence who stated, clearly and authoritatively, that we have been working for a long time for gradual, constant and financially sustainable interventions in order to meet the commitments made over the years by governments of different kinds and - above all - to make this effort with a view to common European defence (a strategy that I think all parties have repeatedly hoped for and urged over the years). I want to conclude by making my own, with due respect to the Head of State, the exhortation that President Mattarella made us yesterday to continue on the path of solidarity and firmness, in order to contribute effectively to the solution of the ongoing conflict. We are responding - said the President yesterday speaking in Trieste - with due solidarity to the aggression against Ukraine, to curb immediately, to make unsustainable this return to the bullying of war, which, if it did not find obstacles, would not stop, but would produce an anguish drift of conflicts that might not find limits. With these words, with this appeal and with my simple reasons, which I wanted to make in this speech, we trust that Parliament in its great majority can continue to support the Ukrainian resistance, to ensure assistance to the thousands of refugees who come to our country and - let us not forget - to support Italian families and businesses who are beginning to suffer the consequences of this dramatic conflict. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u226	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u227	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely clear to all the citizens of our country that the moment is of absolute gravity. The word war, which seemed far away and erased from our stories and our lives, has returned overpoweringly to disturb the lives of Italians and European citizens. In this case, according to Italexit, the Draghi Government has carried out very serious and absolutely irresponsible acts. With a decree-law he decreed the state of emergency, the only country in Europe to do so, but above all he decreed to carry out acts of war against a great nuclear power such as Russia. Economic sanctions, in fact, are acts of economic war; supplying weapons to a country in war is considered by international law an act of war. And all this has been done with a decree-law, bypassing Parliament, which would have been the legitimate seat for these discussions that concern the lives of 60 million Italian citizens. We are told, it has been told to Italian citizens, lying, that this decree-law was necessary to adapt to NATO decisions. That is not the case, they are lies, because it seems to me that Turkey, a great NATO member country, has not taken any of the evil decisions that the Italian Government has taken. We are told that these decisions had to be taken to remain within NATO alliances, Western alliances. Yet a country as strong and respected as Israel, which certainly cannot be said not to be an ally of the United States, has not made the same unholy decisions that the Dragon Government has made. So what is the difference between our country, colleagues, and Turkey or Israel? The difference is that the Government of Turkey and the Government of the State of Israel have thought of the main interest of their countries. Unfortunately we, having at the head of the government a servile person towards foreign powers and an inept and incapable person at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have immediately married positions that all Italians will be forced to pay and at a high price, because by marrying American positions we have forgotten that the United States are producers of oil, gas and wheat and are great exporters, which we are not, of any of these goods, so much so that the American currency has strengthened. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this Government is a disgrace to our country. Think that he was able to respond to the Ukrainians' call for health aid, welcoming with open arms the health care workers who fled from Ukraine. [[Recalls of the President]] Ma'am, I've got a timer. I'm not five minutes away yet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I forewarned her when she was a second away from her five minutes, but I still give her 30 seconds. I've got the stopwatch. GIARRUSSO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Just to say that we have cowardly and vilely welcomed doctors and health care workers fleeing Ukraine, while a serious country like Israel has sent 65 personnel and an entire field hospital, do you know where? Not on the borders of Ukraine, but in Ukraine, where the bombs explode, where they pull rockets: that is helping the Ukrainian people and doing the interests of their own country. What we are seeing - and this is the difference between us, Turkey and Israel - is that, unlike Israel and Turkey, we are part of Europe and this position is the ultimate sanction of Europe's failure as a political entity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u228	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u229	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too agree that we are faced with a truly dramatic situation, to which we must try to respond. I would also like to point out that if Forza Italia, a totally responsible political movement, supported this Government, it did so at a time of national emergency, first for the Covid, then for the economic crisis and now, more importantly, we want to demonstrate our closeness at a time when the winds of war blow at the borders of Europe. A Europe that we had dreamed of as young people, what we once said should go from the Atlantic to the Urals. It wanted to be a Europe of defence, armed, with its own foreign policy, with a standard of living within it absolutely high and decent. A Europe, in essence, that set fire to hearts, consciences and we had no idea that we could return to a war, a war from which, fortunately, we are now outside and we are alienated. However, we must be aware that the situation can change from one moment to the next. Then, with the same responsibility with which we have supported and continue to support the Government, there is an obligation to say some things and above all to reaffirm a principle: when two people argue, they must be divided. When two people don't talk, they have to talk to each other. This is a pre-political concept, it is even a teaching given in the political schools of any party, but it is above all a principle of international politics. I remember that Jean Bodin, a great philosopher but above all an economist and a politician of 1500, first began to highlight a principle: what, in the field of standardization and standards, at the top of this pyramid is the sword (today we would say that there are nuclear warhead missiles). We must be very careful because, if we really want to defend peace, we must do so with peacemakers. Who was the most extraordinary peacemaker? I would like to reiterate this even though my colleagues have already mentioned it: it was Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause]] Today there is a political fact that perhaps someone has escaped: President Errani, three times President of the Emilia Romagna Region, a political figure that we could say to the antipodes with respect to the parameters and above all to the values of reference of Forza Italia and other formations that are part of this Government, said one fundamental thing: the politics of Practice of the sea of 2002 - I do not remember the precise words - are a horizon or something extremely positive. If even Vasco Errani, who is a man of the left, comes to support this, we can say that we were right, that President Berlusconi as a man and builder of peace was right. He has been a builder even in so many fundamental moments, for twenty years. He was the one who solved international crises such as Georgia's in 2008, for example. It seemed almost impossible, but he succeeded in this extraordinary operation. And then in the Middle East he managed to realize important moments for a path of peace with Netanyahu and with Simon Peres; The first even came to say that Silvio is a champion of peace. Here, these are important words said then and today echo from the lips of a person and a colleague of ours who has been extremely honest intellectually. His ability was to have friendships, he was a man of state, he was not limited simply to the politics of the next day, but to the one he looked forward for ten to twenty years. Today its present day is absolutely present. We say this with conviction because the spirit of Sea Practice, this embrace, this handing out between the United States and Russia, was what Europe needed. Today, however - we have also seen the latest agreements in Turkey - we have placed the Russian Federation in the hands of China, and China is a highly worrying geopolitical competitor, not only for the economic policies of Italy, but for Europe itself and the world. 20.34 (AIMI follow-up). At some point we had situations for which we thought some time ago that history was no longer there. It was 1989 and Francis Fukuyama wrote that famous essay "The End of History?" and then the famous book "The End of History and the Last Man." What had happened? It was thought that with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the dissolution of the Soviet empire there would no longer be the need to deal with the great issues that history puts before us: the great issues that concern arms, defence, strategic autonomy also of Europe and above all of Europe. Several times I have spoken in this Chamber of Europe's superpower, which means having a Europe that defends its own borders, which has a foreign policy that looks at Europe's interests, certainly in an Atlantic context, as President Draghi has also reminded us; it means having a Europe within which there can be no conflict for a reason that is obvious to all. There are no conflicts within Russia, the United States of America, China, the great superpowers, because there is a deterrent that is not only military, but is nuclear. Then we need Europe to arms itself. When the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy put forward an agenda to raise expenditure to 2% of GDP, they did something they had already talked about; they had, goodness to them, intellectual honesty, which must be recognized, to have reiterated it. We have been talking about this since 2014; it's an extremely important thing, let's go in that direction. Come on, Italy is here. Someone else may have to justify a vote that he expressed a few days ago in the House of Deputies, not in line with the positions he takes today in this House because - let me say this - while Silvio Berlusconi, in May 2002, in Pratica di Mare, led to the reduction of military expenditure, others increased expenditure, in particular - I would like to remind you - Prime Minister Conte. I understand then that we come to this House in an attempt to remedy this situation, but we also have the task at this time to be absolutely responsible and to maintain absolute unity and to do so we cannot forget that this measure helps children in difficulty, helps refugees, the military and our missions abroad. In particular, Forza Italia has always been close to those who have demonstrated in these missions how important the honour of Italy is. Honoring the uniform, respecting the principles that characterize the roots to which we refer, our homeland and our nation are things that we want and that we demand that they be remembered and, above all, that they be defended and to do so you absolutely have to look to tomorrow with that sun in your pocket and that confidence that is necessary to reach peace. I hope this can be done, but it cannot be done in a pacifist or pacifist language. The truth is another. Politics must come out of one is worth one, it must return to being the protagonist of this moment in history, a difficult story that knocks on the doors of each of us and to which we must give answers. The best answer I think President Berlusconi gave 20 years ago to Pratica di Mare and it is the same that we want to continue to give today as Forza Italia for the well-being of all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u230	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u231	Mr President, first of all I apologize if I asked you to take over from the Presidency. I would have continued, but I was pleased to speak, even if in a Chamber that was not quite full. I would like to thank my group's colleagues who are still present, as are other colleagues, including Senator Gasparri. The reason why I decided to intervene is because I wondered how it is possible that from here to a few minutes the government will have to put its trust in a measure that 95-98 percent of the Senate - I don't know what the exact percentage - does not contrast and on which it says favorable. Yet the Government on the provision will put trust, which is an instrument that serves either when there is obstructionism or, more correctly, when the Government, having within it opinions so divergent that it cannot be brought to unicum, decides to say: You vote for this measure through trust or resign. How is it possible that in the face of the prospect of helping an assaulted country, a bombed country, a European, Christian country, which resembles us in ways of life, there is today a need for a vote of confidence? I don't know or, better, I know too much. It is also a question of aid which is justified, of aid which is necessary and necessary for us too, not just for Ukraine. In fact, there is a before and after Putin's attack on Ukraine by Russia. There was hope or, you can say, the illusion before the invasion that Europe could be a great economic power without having to have an international policy and a defence policy. This illusion has fallen, it's gone. We have war not at the borders of Europe, but within those who want to be part of it also organically. And then maybe it means that there is still someone who thinks it would be more appropriate to put some multicolored flags on the windows, maybe make some rounds of peace and not send help or send only some blankets and not military defense aids that hold back a brutal attack and give a precise signal to those today attacking Ukraine and tomorrow could attack not only Georgia or Moldova, but also countries that are an integral part of this Europe. [[Applause]] The other argument is that this debate has been joined - not by choice of the Brothers of Italy, but by choice of Europe, of that Europe so declaimed, by choice of our President-in-Office of the Council, of your President-in-Office of the Council - the issue of the amount of funding needed for defence, first national, and therefore European. Those who understand that today European defence can only be the offspring of an adaptation of national defences, otherwise they are stammering in terms of political knowledge. And then someone wondered how it's possible to think of increasing defense expenses to 2%, while people don't pay and don't have the money to pay their bills. Do you think we don't know? Look at the requests for measures that come from the right to help families, businesses and traders. What's that got to do with anything? Why equalize? I quote, because I am pleased, because he is a person who esteems and is intelligent, even if he is part of another party, of the Democratic Party, my colleague Zanda who a couple of hours ago said that Italy repudiates war as a means of resolving international disputes, but considers - you think he said it a member of the PD and I am proud to read it - sacred the duty to defend the Homeland. The debate on what should be the priority between spending on the defence of the Homeland and spending on social policies has always existed. Governments prior to the present have increased and - he says - we voted in favour of the defense of our country despite having to face massive percentages of youth unemployment and then there was no war that is now there. I would add that we spent a billion and a half a year dutylessly for fifteen years on international missions in distant places, because, even there, we were going to fight terrorism. Imagine if the need for a gradual increase in military expenditure to which Italy committed itself in 2004, 2006, 2014 and yesterday with Draghi and, attention, not only with Dragons, friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, with the vote in the Chamber of Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] With the vote in the House of all parties. Then someone said, do you want to see that if we change our mind maybe we get back some votes from those we're losing? Then it's a controversy they wanted to deal with us. With us? We have done nothing but reiterate what the 5 Stars, the PD, all the majority parties and of course the center-right parties have done to the House, what Italy has committed itself to in international fora and which today is compared to the needs of families and businesses. Of course, but do we not have those famous billions that must come from Europe for families, businesses, traders, workers? Have we not - perhaps you have not read this - proposed a further increase in European funds to advance rising military expenditure? Do you know or don't you know? Then decide and if that is why today you force Italy to a figure like that of having to vote with the vote of confidence a measure that should be approved almost unanimously, if not unanimously, beat your fist and say: mea culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa! Shame! [[Applause]] In conclusion, for once we wanted to be able to forget that for us this is a government that, if he had gone home earlier, would have given the Italians the opportunity to choose one that thought one way or the other, but in the same way. We had decided to vote in favour of this measure, but your begas force us not to do so, not because we will vote against the measure, but because you have turned it into a different thing, into a vote of confidence to a government and the Italians have understood that it cannot be given, because it does not deserve it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u232	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, I think I share a wish shared by the whole of this House, namely that the positive signals coming from Turkey from last night can become concrete and definitive signs of peace as soon as possible. I would like to make some comments on the decree-law that we are about to approve. The measure, in fact, does not only deal with weapons, but also with other weapons. Some Members mentioned earlier that it is about the reception of refugees: the decree-law has allocated important sums, but we all know that we will need more to ensure reception, health care and services for these women and these children who really flee from the war. In this context I take the opportunity to say, although I know that our parent Massimiliano Romeo together with other colleagues is already moving in this direction, that it is right and proper to move in time, so as not to burden all this situation on the Italian municipalities, both from the economic and logistic point of view and services. It is important that the system be set up immediately, that coordination be carried out, so that the service can be best served, so that the Italian citizens cannot be indirectly welcomed by the people we all want and we must offer them. The numbers to date are as follows: 74,000 refugees in Italy, of which 29,000 are minors. So, on the one hand, there is the attention of the State; on the other, the great heart of Italy has emerged. The Italians have all mobilized themselves, individually and associated, to welcome these people, but also to bring to the borders with the lands of conflict basic necessities. Another important measure: the operation and security of the offices that Italy has abroad, of the staff that Italy has abroad, but also of the interests that Italy cultivates in the countries that can be most affected by this conflict. It means protecting our women and our men who proudly represent the country abroad. [[Applause]] On everyone I want to remember our ambassador Zazo, who was a hero of modern time, a hero who saved 100 people, a hero who kept open the only embassy seat in Ukraine, ours, the one with the tricolor. There are measures that concern university students, university teachers, companies that are suffering from this conflict. Then there is also the provision that provides for the disposal of military equipment, equipment and equipment free of charge, not lethal. It is a necessary measure, a measure that does not declare war, a measure that was indispensable. On the other hand, we are talking about peace. We want peace, true peace, not that which appeals to pacifism. True peace, where peoples love each other and live together very well. But it must also be said, as Mr Candura said very well before, that there is a state that has attacked and a state that has been attacked. How do you get peace? If Russia stops or Ukraine stops? The message is clear. Let us be clear, because we all know this and, above all, all our fellow citizens can know it in the right way and in the right direction. The only way to achieve peace is for Russia to stop. If Russia stops, peace is achieved and war ends; if Ukraine stops, Ukraine ends, it disappears from the map. The only way to achieve peace is that, during the time that diplomacy is at work, Ukraine can defend itself and can limit the offense that Russia is unjustly causing it. This is a fact: if Russia stops, the war ends; if Ukraine stops, Ukraine ends. Let's be clear, otherwise we don't understand each other and fall into the misunderstanding. It is a difficult time this we are living, an extraordinarily difficult time. We've had two years of pandemics, and now we have this conflict. We have companies in difficulty, families in difficulty. We are touching problems that we would never have imagined until recently. And if it is an extraordinary and difficult time, we need an extraordinary commitment, on the one hand, and we need the unity of the country, on the other hand. An extraordinary commitment does not mean trenching behind labels and behind slogans. We know the country is on its knees, but we have to work to get the country up. An extraordinary commitment means, at the same time, respecting international agreements, because it is the result of the credibility and authority of our country, but it also means supporting families and businesses. We will begin immediately, from the decree cuts prices, but we will continue with the next measures, with the next financial and also with the admission of further deviations. Let's not shout at the scandal. We have families on their knees. We can help them. We have companies in difficulty: we have to help them. Above all, we do not accept lessons from those who have been the author, by political will, of waste par excellence. We can talk about the scooters that invade our sidewalks, of the wheelchairs, of the masks of Arcuri, but also of the income of citizenship, that so much waste and so many scams has provoked. Mr President, I shall end with unity. The unity is required by President Mattarella, who must be our lighthouse always and not if necessary. A unity cannot be betrayed for a different political vision at this time, because if we are in the majority it is in the spirit of sacrifice and service to Italy. Even less so, the unit must not be betrayed just to chase the polls. This would be a very serious mistake. [[Applause]] I will really finish, Mr President. If we are aware that we live in an extraordinary time and that our honor is the Armed Forces, let us all rise to their level and rank. This means work, a sense of responsibility, a sense of the institutions and a few words. Especially during this period words weigh like stones and if we use the right words and tones we can help the path of peace in the shortest possible time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u234	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u235	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this decree-law has been colored with political reasons that had nothing to do with it and nothing to do with its content. I am referring in particular to the issue of increasing military spending to 2% of GDP by 2024. The position of the Movimento 5 Star is very clear: the dramatic moment in which the country is located, the economic condition of many families and businesses, the huge increase of the bills that is putting on the pavement citizens and companies and the consequences of the war in Ukraine make unsustainable, in this historical moment, to allocate at least 12 billion more to the defence sector. This can and must be achieved in a longer period of time, which can be - for example - by 2030, as the Movimento 5 Stars says, or by 2028, as Minister Guerini said today. I remember, moreover, that Minister Guerini in 2019 (so in the era he doesn't suspect) thought it unsustainable to reach 2% of GDP by 2024 (I read exactly the words he used). This was said in pre-Covid times, when there was not even the explosion of energy prices, and therefore, even more so, this is still true today. Moreover, in times of crisis, we can - indeed, we must - adjust the agreements made perhaps many years earlier, as in this case, in order to adapt them to the contingent situation. For example, in 2020, thanks also to the commitment of the 5 Star Movement, the Stability and Growth Pact was suspended in Europe, which was simply unsustainable given the pandemic and its economic consequences. [[Applause]] For the record, the Stability and Growth Pact has not yet been reactivated and probably, when this happens, it will also be profoundly changed. Mr President, I wish to state clearly that we are proud of our armed forces, that we support with conviction and that they have proved millions of times of great reliability both in peace missions and in Italy, helping the country during the pandemic period or in various operations, such as safe roads and other similar operations. The 5 Star Movimento never said it was against the respect of international agreements, the consequence of which would make our country look bad and this was repeated by my colleagues even a few minutes ago. This thing, which I can only call a panzana, has been falsely supported in the last hours and repeated in the news also of the public service (I have listened to them in these hours). This is particularly serious because the news is absolutely false. This is yet another vulgar attack on us, based on the twisting of reality for the sole purpose of attacking us. But we are accustomed to this continuous campaign of disinformation, deception and defamation. Moreover, not the bar talk or the words, but the acts put on the field by the Governments that the 5 Star Movement has supported speak for us. For example - I remember before - in 2020, the year of the crisis linked to the Covid-19, we proposed and approved budget deviations of 130 billion euros to help the millions of Italians who were in difficulty and could not put the dish at the table. We have helped, and we are proud of it, millions of craftsmen, small, medium and large enterprises; we have suspended the payment of taxes and debit cards and we have financed these same companies to overcome the difficult moment. The increase in GDP in 2021 is more than 6.5%; the fact that jobs are being protected and that companies are being protected has given us complete reason. It was the right way, that was the thing to do and we did it with courage and determination. [[Applause]] In that same year (and also in the previous years, to be honest), we increased the expenses of the defence sector by about 1.6 billion. I want to point out this fact: we allocated 1.6 billion to the defence sector, compared with 130 billion for citizens, for businesses and for the productive sector. These 1.6 billion are about 0.1 percent of GDP; this average has been maintained throughout the three years of the Governments presided over by Giuseppe Conte. If we maintain this growth trend of around 0.1% of GDP per year, we will reach - as I said before - 2% of the total GDP for military spending by 2030. We hope and believe that this is the way forward, because it is absolutely sustainable. I would point out, however, that it is not only Italy, within NATO, that is below 2% of GDP for military expenditure. There are as many as 20 out of 30 countries that constitute the Atlantic Alliance in this situation, so it is not a problem that only concerns Italy. I would also point out that it is not yet known where these 12 billion (at least 12 billion) would be taken for defence, between this year and next year, if we wanted to achieve this by 2024. We do not know whether we would find these 12 billions by cutting other expenses, for example by taking them from the funds of the PNRR, or by cutting the income of citizenship, as someone a few minutes ago has vulgarly - I emphasize vulgarly - proposed, or by making a budgetary deviation. Moreover, in this case it would be very strange to make a budgetary deviation for defence, after the Government has declared its opposition to any hypothesis of budgetary deviation that would benefit citizens and businesses. If you want to make a detour for the defense right now, then make it a hundred times higher in favor of those who are suffering right now. [[Applause]] I am referring to citizens and companies who cannot pay their energy bills and save jobs. This is our greatest emergency and we must work with all our strength in this regard. Another issue that has been dealt with in these hours is that of common European defence. This is a very desirable horizon (who could possibly be against it?). However, I believe and believe that we must and can achieve this when there is a full convergence of European foreign policy, which is unfortunately not currently seen. This crisis situation is not affecting all countries in the same way. Norway, for example, which is a hydrocarbon producing country, is making huge gains. In the Netherlands, where the FTT is based, i.e. where gas is exchanged, wild speculations are taking place, which are bringing hundreds of millions of Europeans and businesses to their knees. Certainly these countries (and I have only given two examples) do not have the same priorities and needs as we do. This asymmetry of interest has probably led to the poor results of the last European Council on energy, which was postponed to May and which did not see the energy recovery fund that we wanted born and which, in our opinion, is the only instrument that would enable us to overcome the energy and economic crisis, building a fund that will help Member States to overcome this dramatic phase, putting its debt in common (this is obviously a nodal point) and making investments on renewable energy, which can lead us in the long term to energy independence. The situation is very difficult and we will get out of it by adopting measures and courageous and common sense, certainly not obeying Diktat who come from foreign entities. That is our wish and we will continue to work in this direction, for the citizens and for Italian companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u236	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u237	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u238	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators for their contribution to the work of the Commissions and also for today's debate. In response to the Ukrainian crisis, to the invasion of this nation by Russia, Italy, like Europe, has been firm in its response and has also proved firm in its measures. With today's work of conversion into law of this decree-law we give further concreteness to these measures and reaffirm the firmness of our response. The issue is obviously complex, just as complex are the negotiations that we hope will lead to an immediate ceasefire and an agreement between the parties. It is certainly not easy for anyone to talk about war and talk about a war that is at our door, but as I have had the opportunity to highlight in other fora peace is a very precious asset that needs attention and continuous care. Peace, together with other privileges, has been taken for granted and today put hard to the test: it was first highlighted by the pandemic that hit us and now the war in Ukraine. Preparing for peace therefore means daily efforts to build it, strengthen it, preserve it and promote it; it means investing resources in stability and security in the prospects of sustainable development and prosperity, not only our own, but global. The war in Ukraine has highlighted the damage to the rigidity of the Stability Pact which has cast the development policies of many European nations and of the Union as a whole. The consequences are reflected, for example, in the excessive dependence that we now live in the supply of gas, cereals, wheat and yesterday in the simple masks to protect ourselves from the Covid. The challenge that awaits us is to build on what is happening and put in place the necessary counter-measures, which move from supporting the Ukrainian people to maintaining our national and international commitments, proving to be a reliable, credible nation and not the weak link at European, as well as at international level. With regard to some of the speeches that have been made in this House, I think I would like to give some answers. With respect to what strategy the European Union has, well, on 27 March, the European Council approved the strategic compass: it may or may not be pleasing, we can either share its objectives or not, but it is a strategy that has just been adopted. We have also referred to Law 244 and to the disproportion of the sums allocated to the staff: I would say that we cannot remember the military only when they are useful and come to help us, to manage emergencies and critical issues, as they did in the pandemic, and a moment after we forget and maybe think that they are a cost. In fact, if we were able to deal with the pandemic too; if we were able to see camp hospitals mounted in the immediacy; if we were able to transfer our fellow citizens from China to Italy with biocontent stretchers, at a time when we did not yet know the extent of that virus, which we would have seen after a few months; well, if we were also able to manage the whole part of the vaccines, from the initial stage until now (we still have the support of our Armed Forces), and at the same time to keep true to the commitments made in the international missions, we did it because we have soldiers who, with a spirit of sacrifice and loyalty, keep their oath of fidelity to our Homeland to the detriment of their own lives. Their sacrifice, silent, I would say, translates into the moment when they pass from one mission to another, perhaps without even having the time of their proper rest, precisely because thanks to their sacrifice we face the low investment that we have, precisely to comply with the agreements that we have made at international level. On the other hand, as regards the combination of aid to people and increased expenditure on defence, these two items must not be opposed. In fact, if we can help families today, we also do so thanks to the defence industry: the latter is worth 7% of GDP and sees 150,000 people working within it; while more than one third of the 24 billion defence budget is for the Carabinieri weapon. I believe that investing more and more in the Arm of the Carabinieri for the safety of our cities will do nothing but good for Italy as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u239	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2562, converting Decree-Law No 14 of 25 February 2022 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u241	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 14, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the debate on the issue of trust will take place at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u242	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-420.ana.u243	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 31 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.12 p.m.
