ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 3 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to address a moving thought to President David Sassoli. His sudden disappearance was a cause of deep pain and represents a serious wound for Italy, for Europe and for all those who have been able to know and appreciate his unmistakable human trait. Journalist, politician and man of competent and passionate institutions, David Sassoli was one of the most authoritative figures in the Italian press, a sensitive interpreter and an intelligent narrator of many important pages of our recent history. Untiring was his commitment to the service of freedom of the press and the right of the news, values indispensable for information free from prejudices, preconceptions or ideological constraints. His passion for quality journalism had led him to take many prestigious positions in the editorials of the main national newspapers and news. He was nominated for the first time in the European Parliament in 2009, and was one of the most voted in Italy. This electoral success, repeated in 2014 and 2019, David Sassoli has always translated it into dedication to the common good and the construction of a Europe attentive and sensitive to the demands of citizens. Firmness and willingness to dialogue were his distinctive traits. With these resources, the European Parliament has lived as a place of authentic mediation between often divergent and opposing interests and positions, of building prospects for democracy and freedom, accompanying the path of integration at times even dramatic in the history of our continent. This is demonstrated by the passion and determination with which during his Presidency, which has passed through the very difficult phase of the pandemic emergency, he has been able to defend and promote the centrality of parliamentary representation in the European decision-making process as a means of overcoming the policy of cross-references and strengthening the perspectives of the rule of law. With this same determination he was among the advocates of the conference on the future of the Union in the conviction that, as highlighted in the inaugural speech, when we are about to rebuild our economies and our societies on new bases it is even more crucial and urgent to listen to our fellow citizens, to feel their needs, their expectations in terms of assistance, work, dignity, security and prosperity and their vision of this common European future. Europe's human face has always been at the heart of its political and institutional action. It considered rights to be an absolute priority to protect against any authoritarian drift by defending the role of the European Union as a watchman of the values of freedom and dignity. It promoted the vision of a Europe of solidarity and cohesion, a prospect which, precisely during its Presidency, thanks to the adoption of strategic decisions for the European economic recovery, has finally become a reality. He strongly believed in the prospects of parliamentary cooperation especially in the Mediterranean area, aware that only through dialogue and collaboration can we face global challenges like climate change together. None of us will be able to forget his smile, his authentic Italianity and together his convinced adherence to the most noble European values. He also entrusted us in the fight against illness the testimony of what it means never to give up, fighting to the end to carry out his mission. In renewing my personal condolences and the closeness of the entire Senate to the pain of the family, colleagues and friends of President David Sassoli, I invite this Assembly to honour his memory by observing a minute of silence. ( [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence]] ). ( [[Live and prolonged applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u7	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, it is difficult for us today. Today we mourn the disappearance of a member of our community and we mourn it through a wave of unstoppable mourning, at times even surprising, which clarifies very well who was David Sassoli every day of his political, institutional and professional life. David was a polite, passionate, decent, clear, competent and honest man. He was a man who built bridges and opposed the walls, in the name of the founding values of the European Union: solidarity, dignity and freedom. Never a word out of place, never excessive tone, always the ability to build human relations, through which to weave the project of a stronger, inclusive Europe, attentive to the needs, concerns and fragility of its citizens, starting with the youngest. A political life spent on the European dream, on the rights of people and on the defence of democratic institutions. The active policy, made up of concrete gestures, to put itself at the service of people, with a strong civil sense and humanity, which went far beyond its institutional role. The clarity of the words was the tool to allow everyone to understand: he did it as a journalist and he did it as a politician. He used firm words to defend and promote the project of European integration and its democratic institutions, to promote the values of dignity and solidarity, because no one is safe alone, to ask for more and more democracy, to denounce the crossing of the borders between humanity and inhumanity, with the construction of those walls that he could not allow, to prevent the salvation of fragile human beings who ask for shelter, to denounce the rigorism that prevents the fight against inequalities, because the supreme duty of the institutions, their reason for being, is to protect the weakest, without adding pain to the pain, to promote knowledge as a means of social and economic emancipation, because hope is us, when we do not raise walls and close our eyes before those who need and fight injustices. It is a sign that the last major political act of its Europe was the Next generation EU, the first step of European reconstruction in the direction of greater integration, solidarity and social sustainability. With the disappearance of David we lose a friend, but the tide of love, respect, sincere mourning and esteem of these hours warms the heart, because it offers a very precise sign of his humanity and the greatness of what he has sown. David is a heritage of our party, but today we discover that it is a common heritage: a flood of affection that does not surprise those who knew him or had worked with him. Our community, our country, Europe will miss it because it leaves a huge void. We will miss him very much, and it hurts to know that he had to face such a painful period. David, however, continued to shine his eyes and there was a passion for politics and a sincere empathy for others inside that shin. David was all this and much more; a great Italian, European, democratic, anti-fascist. When he took office as President of the European Parliament, he said: "I am the son of a man who, at twenty years of age, fought against other Europeans and a mother who, also twenty years old, left her home and found refuge in other families. I know that this is also the story of many of your families and I know that if we shared our stories and told them in front of a glass of beer or wine, we would never say that we are children or grandchildren of an accident in history. Our closeness to his family, his wife Alessandra and his children, Livia and Giulio, his friends, his collaborators and his fellow MEPs. David, we're gonna miss you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u10	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost a friend, a politician with a great heart, attentive to the needs of the people and with a strong human sympathy. David Sassoli set his life to respect for the truth and the meaning of the institutions, first as a journalist, then as a politician. He has always been a defender of rights and attentive to the needs of the weakest. He had been so since the beginning of his journalistic career, when he dedicated himself to the trade union commitment and to the defense of his colleagues with minor protection, regardless of the prestigious positions gradually covered. Even recently, in his capacity as President of the European Parliament, he had not hesitated to intervene courageously, without fear of retaliation, to denounce the cases of blatant violations of civil rights in Russia, for example; activity for which he had been included on the blacklist of unwelcome people in the regime. Convincingly Europeanist, Sassoli was a loyal interpreter of the feeling of solidarity and sharing that is at the heart of the European Union, managing to preside over the European Parliament with great lucidity and intelligence even in the most difficult years for Europe, those marked by the pandemic; years in which the European Union, which objectively risked imploding, was able, thanks to the vision and pulse of the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli, to transform the most serious crisis since the post-war period to today, on the other hand, to make an extraordinary opportunity to relaunch the whole continent. David devoted himself with great passion to the construction of a Europe of peoples and at the same time has always stood as an embankment against any sovereignist and populist drift, without ever raising his tones, but always with the firmness of those who know they are in the right and with the courage of their own ideas, of their own battles, even at the risk of carrying them forward in solitude. David was thus, a humble, correct, kind, generous man in the exercise of his political commitment, integrity and determination in the defense of the sound values in which he believed. David will bring with us the memory of the constant good mood, his ability to react always with an open and bright smile even in difficult situations. A smile that came to hug and warm those in front. It is impossible not to remember with affection his attitude, his ability to stop and talk to everyone. He never strayed from confrontation, in fact, he saw it as a stimulus. A famous man, who has arrived for decades, but has never felt above anyone and has always made himself available for listening; a rare gift that has made him appreciate and love. Curious, of profound culture, he committed himself to a Europe in which no one was left behind and, in doing so, made the Union feel closer to normal people. Even for his profoundly human qualities today we mourn him. His disappearance leaves a great void in the Italian and European institutions and in all of us who have been lucky enough to know him and to walk a piece of the way together. In one of his last speeches to the European Parliament, just a few weeks ago, David argued that Europe, in order to get out of Covid-19, must continue to work together with common policies. No one must feel satisfied with what has been achieved. We are all called to continue to innovate and overcome together the difficulties caused by the pandemic. Well, I think the best way to honor David Sassoli is to take this appeal very seriously, as a political will, and make it ours to follow him even in the months to come. And we know David will be at our side. Thank you, David. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u13	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, to commemorate a Member of Parliament, a President of the European Parliament, who has known and appreciated himself, always gives a strong emotion, an emotion that the whole House shares today. Sassoli, rather than an exponent of a political part, was in fact a figure that we have always recognized as a man of the institutions. He was a journalist on the main television network, and he had been in his youth. In common with him I found a figure: it was also scout. And perhaps it has affected his youthful militancy in his way of working and acting. What was his way, what we political opponents have always recognized and that made us appreciate it? Being a man without prejudice, strong in his ideas, but loyal and able to confront and discuss with everyone, to recognize the one who did not think like him as an opponent with whom to be able to confront. It was a characteristic of him, who accompanied him and made him a President of the European Parliament capable of giving voice to the various pressures, needs, dynamics, such complex ones as those of a Parliament that gathers people from all over the world. His line was a clear one: a Europeanist political line; a political line of tolerance, of overcoming all diversity. We have appreciated it, sometimes opposed it, but always recognized as an honest man, and it is not little in today's time, and as a loyal man: and even more, in today's time, it is not so simple and so common. Like everyone else, when they see a danger approaching (and even his illness lived it without us noticing it, at least the vast majority of us), he may have rethinked his political life, which began in 2009, with 400,000 votes of preference. I say this to this House, which has long forgotten, for reasons of law, what it means to collect votes of preference. He had 400,000 votes preferably in 2009, but then his ambition, at a certain point, was to try to be mayor of his city of adoption, Rome. He couldn't do it there. He took half of Marino's vows, but he didn't make it a drama. There, too, his ability to deal with a problem without making a fuss or boasting about it. Then, in his election as President of the European Parliament, he was able to distinguish himself, at the time of the pandemic, not to close, but rather to prevent any real impediment to European parliamentary activity. A man who has been able to give the role that covered a thickness such as politics would always need to have. I believe that he is an example, for those who have militated in his political part, but, allow me, even for those who did not have his own ideas, for those who were a political opponent, but in him he is reflected in loyalty, tolerance, in the ability to face the adversaries with a smile, humility and firmness. Thank you, David. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are deaths that we live not only with great pain, but also with the feeling of fierce injustice. It happens when we feel that an unexpected and premature disappearance abducts someone who still had a lot to do and to give to his country and his family. This is the feeling of pain, loss and - excuse me - almost anger at the injustice that we felt at the news of David Sassoli's death. David was an information professional, not a politician. Politics had arrived with the election to the European Parliament in 2009, after a brilliant career as a journalist first on the printed paper and then on television (to TG3 and then vice-director of TG1). He has never been a loan to politics, as we use to say. He had a cause in which he passionately believed - the construction of Europe - and a battle to be fought with kindness and sweetness, but also with fierce determination. That cause has somehow become his life. David Sassoli was a passionate Europeanist, convinced that for the peoples of this continent there was no future except with full and complete integration. However, its pro-Europeanism resulted not in blindness, for example, at the borders of the European Union, but - on the contrary - in constant efforts to correct them. The Europe in which Sassoli believed was that of the European Parliament. He wanted his democratically elected representation at the centre of the Union. First as Head of Delegation of the PD, then as Vice President and finally as President of the European Parliament, he has always tried to make that Parliament the heart of the new Europe because he knew that, without the centrality of a democratic Parliament, talking about a Europe of peoples would only be a slogan. Few have fought with more determination than he, a convinced Europeanist, the battle against certain limits of Europe, the rigorist one. Your entire Presidency was immediately marked by this battle and, even more decisively, in the face of the tragedy of the pandemic that fell on our continent. In his vision, debt sharing was crucial to achieving a truly united but much fairer Europe. After the explosion of the pandemic, its deployment in favour of the recovery fund, when many governments were sceptical and doubtful, was immediate and fundamental to achieve that goal that saved us from the catastrophe. Its position in favour of the cancellation of the debt by Covid, initially welcomed with great scandal, is today a real prospect, considered practicable and necessary by some of the main European governments. David was a Catholic raised at the school of Pietro Scoppola and Achilles Ardigò (so a Catholic extremely attentive to the social value of Catholicism) and in recent times very close to the vision of Pope Francis. Its Europe, therefore, could only be open, welcoming, inclusive and without walls. It is this conception of Europe that, as President of Parliament, has tried to spread in practice and not just in words. He did so with strong gestures, sometimes deliberately provocative, designed to shake numb consciences, such as the opening of Parliament to the homeless in the first lockdown or the choice to celebrate the seventy years of the Schuman Declaration by inviting representatives of NGOs committed to saving lives in the Mediterranean. It has done so through major political initiatives, such as the insistence to demand respect for rights in all countries of the Union and to amend the Dublin Regulation. I believe that the best and most sincere way of recognizing this great commitment and value is to give David today the full title of being one of the great builders of Europe, of the new Europe, of today's united Europe and even more than we want for tomorrow. This wanted to be, this was and this would continue to be if a ferocious destiny had not taken it from us too soon. It is rightly said that no one is irreplaceable, but someone is difficult to replace and I believe this is the case with David Sassoli. Goodbye, President, let the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u19	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the news of David Sassoli's disappearance overwhelmed us all: a terrible flash in an already dark time. He left in tiptoe, without clamor; perhaps only very few friends were aware of his health conditions, which he rightly wanted to keep confidential until the end, in perfect line with that lifestyle away from the clamors that has always characterized him. In these hours there has been a swirling of statements of sincere and profound condolence on the part of all, so many memories, great testimonies of esteem; but there is a beautiful element that unites all these expressions and that is really important to highlight in this Chamber: David Sassoli is a loved and esteemed person, he is extremely competent and capable, deeply human, of value and values, a gentleman. It is important to stress this before even remembering his figure of acute journalist, refined political, because all too often one forgets that behind important institutional roles there are men and women with a unique and extraordinary human trait that determine his figure. Without that sensitivity, that humanity and also that culture understood as a thirst for knowledge and openness towards others, President David Sassoli would not have reached important personal goals and would not have become a reference point for so many, for all, and an excellent representative of the European institutions. Europe: David Sassoli is, in the common imagination, one of the symbols of Italy in Europe. He defended European integration, we have all said so; he believed in the dream of European unity that it was not limited to monetary unity; during his mandate as the leader of the European Parliament, he expressed his fundamental values: freedom, dignity, solidarity and protection of rights, which he carried out both in political and institutional and personal action. Europe - he said - still has a lot to say if we and you can say it together, if we can put the reasons for the political struggle at the service of our citizens, if Parliament can listen to their wishes, fears and needs. This was part of his address to the Presidency of the European Parliament. In these words there is much of the sense of his mandate, but also a bright and deep legacy that gives especially to the new generations to become protagonists of change. At the University of Turin, on the occasion of the inauguration of last academic year, David Sassoli appealed to young people to participate actively in the changes. Europe - he said - needs your intuition and your contribution. David Sassoli is a democratic enthusiast, a man of dialogue, but above all an equally passionate advocate of rights, and that European turn towards greater solidarity and the gradual abandonment of rigorism and austerity certainly also bears its signature. In this I want to emphasize its clarity, a way of speaking clear, calm, attentive, but always - we have all emphasized this too - weighted. Never a word at random and always pronounced with that composure that became persuasion, to which certainly he contributed his first life as a journalist: a passion more than a profession, that he loved so much and that allowed him to become familiar to all Italians. A familiar face, reliable and familiar, has been able to enter the Italians' homes with grace, always with that way of doing sound information, never shouted or above the lines, but balanced and respectful, as it should be, even when there were to tell dramatic moments of Italian history: let's think about the years of Gladio or Ustica. We are greeted by a great man and a great Italian, of whom we will really miss, a loyal person who was able - as my colleague La Russa said - to make himself loved by everyone, regardless of political positions. A protagonist of our time, certainly a great protagonist of our time, a friend, a motivator and above all an authentic scout who has certainly left the world a bit 'better than he found it. To the family members, to the entire Democratic Party community and to those who loved him, the great embrace of the Senators of Forza Italia and my staff. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u22	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today this House gives a heartfelt greeting to David Sassoli, a journalist, a writer, a television host, a politician of standing, President of the European Parliament, who is no longer with us. The news of his illness and death, which came last night, has upset us very much. Taken by the frenzy of our activities, we are stunned when a prominent personality disappears. His death brings us back to a human plan of fragility and fleeting life. The unanimous condolence that followed the news of David Sassoli's death is due to the recognition of the value of man, intellectual and politician. Political convictions may also be opposed, but the possibility of confrontation with men and women driven by high moral values, great respect for institutions, deep culture makes us understand the highest sense of democracy and the possibility of real progress in the community. Sassoli, convinced pro-Europeanist of Catholic formation, advocated the need for the European institution to be ever closer to its citizens. We agree with the issue of cultural identity, recognition and enhancement of differences (not forced type-approval), simplification. Let us remember that his commitment as President of the European Parliament has always been intense and, even at the end of his days, aimed at a transfer of deliveries to and support the work of the institution. To the family, the backbone from which he drew his great inner strength, to his wife Alessandra and to his children Giulio and Livia, to all his colleagues and colleagues of the PD, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group expresses closeness and live condolences and honors a man who, with his work and values, has given lustre to our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u25	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I wish to express my condolences and closeness to the family and the Democratic Party for the death of the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli. Italy and Europe have had in him a valuable reference, a defender of integration, a bishop of struggles to all inequalities, a flagship of the founding values of our democracy: freedom, dignity, solidarity and protection of rights. A upright politician, a democratic Catholic, a layman at the service of the institutions, a convinced pro-European. The European Union certainly is not an accident in history: we are not an accident - Sassoli often repeated - but children and grandchildren of those who have managed to find the antidote to that nationalist degeneration that has poisoned our history. If we are European, it is also because we are in love with our countries. These are the principles that led your Presidency of the European Parliament at one of the most critical moments in history. With Sassoli we lose a sincere democrat, a convinced anti-fascist who believed, as we believe, in a new social model that invests in common goods such as health, education and the environment, and that promotes justice and equality. Sassoli, before his political commitment, was a journalist, a great journalist in the public service, and also from the highest bench in the European Parliament, continued to remember the precious value of the information and the work of journalists, always warning about the risks posed by our democracies when freedom of information is compressed or put at risk. By creating transparency - David wrote - journalism allows voters to make informed decisions. "Protecting and supporting journalists is in the vital interest of democratic societies": a teaching that should mobilize our consciences to remove all those anomalies that even in Italy disturb the freedom of the press, from conflicts of interest to intimidation to journalists, to which we witness every day also with the proliferation of the aberrant phenomenon of quarrels and, together, with the insistent threats. But Sassoli was above all - and for this reason I like to remember him today - a politician of rare institutional sensitivity. His term of office as President of the European Parliament was about to expire, and he, in a world where he vanished to retain rents and positions of power, had decided to pass the witness. The Europeanist front would risk splitting up and it would be going against my history, our beliefs, our battles. I can't allow it, he had announced it in time. This profound sense of duty, which in Sassoli leads to putting aside the point of view and personal interest in order to give priority to what is needed for the proper functioning of the institutions and the common good, calls upon all of us today as representatives of the institutions struggling with the duty to face, govern and resolve together the emergencies in which the citizens are immersed. He asks us all about what is necessary for the good of the citizens and to secure the country, which needs stability and safe guidance, in order to ensure that all the most precious resources that the Republic has - as David seems to tell us now, in this Chamber and among these benches - are indispensable, even at the cost of sacrificing personal interests and sensibilities that would lead to choices or decommitments that, although motivated and noble, this country cannot afford. "The Christmas period" - you said, dear David, in your video message on the occasion of the last holidays - "is the time of the birth of hope, and hope is us when we do not close our eyes to those in need, when we do not raise walls at our borders, when we fight against all injustices." In front of the cry of sorrow that rises every day from our fellow citizens and brothers, from every corner of our cities and communities, the Continent, the whole world; in front of the torment of desperate people who migrate and find on their way those walls that we raise at our borders, in the desire to let us fight all the injustices, we will remember your wish, the wish for yours and our hope, so that Christmas may be every day in our hearts and in our political commitment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u26	He asked the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Mario Draghi, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the first memories that come to mind of David Sassoli are his grace, his humanity, his altruism, his passion for the journalistic profession that made him one of the most famous and loved faces among all Italians, the civic spirit and the listening ability that guided him in his political journey and made him respect, both by party comrades and by opponents. But, on behalf of the Government and my staff, I would like to mention Sassoli above all as an Italian and protagonist at the service of Europe, its institutions and its citizens. As President of the European Parliament, his rare ability to combine idealism and mediation has made him the protagonist of one of the most difficult periods in recent history; an attentive and authoritative voice to defend European values and the rights of the weakest. In his speeches, Sassoli drew his own Europe, representative, effective and supportive. For Sassoli, the European institutions must first and foremost be close to the citizens and progress with dialogue and confrontation. Parliament is the place for this dialogue, for this debate; it is in Parliament that Europe is growing and strengthening and it is in Parliament that democracy, multilateralism and cooperation are being promoted - again in its words - in the face of the temptation of populism and authoritarianism, especially during a health and economic crisis such as the one we are still experiencing. Sassoli wanted a Europe capable of achieving results, even immediate ones, of protecting its citizens, of promoting their well-being, of helping them to build their future. Sassoli has never ceased to claim the results achieved in recent years, from the agreement on Brexit to ambitious measures to protect the environment, to the common fight against the pandemic, to the creation of the Next generation EU programme and to the drafting of the National Recovery and Resilience Plans. "An extraordinary programming effort" - he said - "which must be followed by very careful implementation in accordance with the priorities we have agreed together." For Sassoli, these efforts must have as their true objective the construction of a social Europe, which is attentive to the needs of workers and the weakest. The European project that we want to build - he said - must focus on the fight against poverty and the reduction of inequalities, must address the dignity of people, as migrants trying to get to Europe and towards which the European Union must put common policies in the field that do not leave border countries alone. "The values dear to us are not indestructible," Sassoli reminded us in one of his recent speeches. In his life, David guarded them, defended them, promoted them. Now it's up to all of us to keep doing this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u29	I would like to thank President Draghi and all those who have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u30	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 18 January. At today's sitting, the ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee will be discussed. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides for discussion until its conclusion of the decree-law on the strengthened green pass. To this end, the sitting does not include closing hours. On Thursday 13 January, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers of the Interior, sustainable infrastructure and mobility and for regional affairs and self-government. With regard to next week, it was decided that on Wednesday 19 January, at 9 a.m., the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice will take place. According to previous reports, three hours, including explanations of vote, were allocated to the Groups for discussion. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 18 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the President's statement on the agenda. The Conference of Leaders is convened on Tuesday 18, from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Finally, the Leaders agreed to confirm for the annual meeting of 2022 the senators currently in office in the Italian Parliamentary Delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly. According to the latest provisions adopted by the quaestors in relation to the epidemiological emergency, the House's sanitisation will take place every three hours, with a minimum duration of sixty minutes. The distance between senators in the Chamber and in the Commissions is also restored, with the obligation to wear masks of the type FFP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u31	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 18 January: [[Tuesday 11 January h. 16,30-20 - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission Wednesday 12 January h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 2463 - Decree-Law n. 172, Green pass strengthened (expires on 25 January) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 13) Thursday 13 " h. 15]] [[Tuesday 18 January h. 16.30 - Statement by the President on the agenda]] On Wednesday 19 January, at 9 a.m., the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice will take place. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2463 (Decree-Law No 172, Green Pass strengthened) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion on the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2221, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u33	Mr President, this understanding is aimed at regulating air services between the two countries and strengthening bilateral economic links, outlining the general legal framework within which aviation relations are developed between the two countries. In particular, I would point out to the Assembly that this agreement establishes the rights which the Contracting Parties grant to the undertakings designated by them, or the right of overflight of their territory, technical port of call and commercial activity, limited to the points identified in the table of routes annexed to the agreements, and defines the general principles which the aviation authorities of the two Contracting Parties apply when agreeing on the frequencies of the services to be performed, also laying down the conditions for the withdrawal or suspension of operating authorisations to air undertakings. (17.24) (Ferrara, rapporteur). Article 3 provides for a financial invariance clause that no new or higher public finance charges should result from the implementation of the agreement. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u34	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u37	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I ask for permission to submit the full text of my written speech for this ratification and also for the subsequent ones, and I declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u38	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u41	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I too am speaking in favour of this ratification and subsequent ratification. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u44	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I declare the Lega-Salvini Premier Group's vote in favour of this ratification and the forthcoming draft law No 2222.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u47	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I declare the M5S Group's vote in favour of this ratification and the following four.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u48	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2222, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u50	Mr President, if you agree, I shall read the report and ask for permission to hand over the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u51	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Lucidi and Ferrara confirm the intentions of favorable vote previously expressed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2220, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u53	Mr President, if the Presidency agrees, I would ask you to hand over the text of the report, so that it can be published as an annex to today's report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u54	Senator Iwobi, the Presidency authorizes you to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri and Ferrara confirm the intentions of favorable vote previously expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u57	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u58	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u59	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2341. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u60	Mr President, I too would like to be able to deliver the text of my speech, so that it can be published in the annex to today's report. I just have to point out that an update has been made by the budget law, so the funding to the extremely important research centre in question does not start from 2021, but concerns the years 2022 and 2023. There is therefore only this simple variation to be reported.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u61	The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the text of the report to the acts. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators Garavini, Alfieri and Ferrara have already announced their vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u64	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this ratification is extremely important as it regulates the legal personality of the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology on Italian territory. The headquarters of the organization - as is known - is located in the city of Trieste, the capital of the virtuous Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, which I proudly represent in the Senate. [[Applause]] The choice of such a seat has given the city lustre and great importance within the scientific world. The projects of the Centre, in collaboration with the main universities of the Region, are not only a great opportunity for development for the territory of Trieste and regional, but also represent an important part for the advancement of innovation in the world of genetic engineering and biotechnology, with incredible implications from the medical point of view. Highlighting the splendid and fruitful relationship between the Centre and the Regional Administration, I declare the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u65	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2341, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u66	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2342. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u67	Mr President, I ask for permission to hand over the text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u68	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,200, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators Garavini, Alfieri and Ferrara have already announced their intention to vote in favour on behalf of their respective groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u71	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u72	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u75	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to express my anger and indignation at the violence that happened at New Year's Eve in Milan: facts - in my opinion - which have been diminished, which we want to highlight, because little girls have been attacked and harassed by savages, and I want to call them savages. Unfortunately, North African gangs acted unpunishedly. No one has spoken and the silence of the press, especially of the left-wing press, is shameful. So, we are here to apologize to those girls and to ask for exemplary intervention from the competent authorities: no tolerance for those people, for those boys investigated! No tolerance! Among other things, I add that they are guests and - today I say so - not welcome, because women, girls, our daughters must be respected. What has happened is shameful and cannot be traced. So, shame on those who are covering up what happened on the media! And I repeat to the judiciary, to the prosecutors, to those who investigate: for our part there is no tolerance. The savages are not tolerated! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u78	CORRADO (Mixed). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italian health care, particularly in terms of the reception and taking care of citizens in need of care, is today a great sick person and the pandemic by Covid has only exacerbated difficulties already known. The unstoppable disposal of public health assets in recent decades unfolds its negative effects everywhere, but in large cities it manifests itself, in particular, with the closure of historic hospitals and the weakening of the response to health needs. The reduction in the number of hospitals has been a trend since long before the economic crisis of 2008. In Italy today there are 2.7 hospital beds per 1,000 inhabitants, while the average of the European countries is 4 beds per 1,000 inhabitants. This shortcoming places us at the last places in Europe. The hospital was the epicenter of linear cuts, while territorial health never took off. Our nosocomi have become a mirror of the inadequacy of the system, with severe repercussions on the health conditions of the patients, whose discomfort is well documented on the news of the newspapers. In Rome, in particular, the emblem of this vulnus are the closure and abandonment of the Forlanini and San Giacomo hospitals, whose immediate reactivation is demanded from several parts. The subscription for the Forlanini has today collected as many as 118,000 signatures of citizens, while for San Giacomo helps the decision of the third section of the Council of State, presided over by Michele Corradino, of April 7, 2021, which provides for its reuse for health purposes. To cope with the pandemic situation, the Lazio Region has authorised the activation of beds at accredited health facilities. It would then be appropriate to know, if there are any, the conditions that prevent the reuse of public hospitals abandoned Forlanini and San Giacomo, to which the New Queen Margherita and San Gallicano are added, as they are currently underused. To these structures should be addressed the resources foreseen by the PNRR with resolution of the Regional Council of Lazio 30 December 2021, n. 1,005. However, in this resolution there is no reference to resources directed at the same hospitals; on the contrary, structures which are not capable of protecting the dignity of citizens and the right to the health of the community are favoured.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u81	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw everyone's attention to an initiative launched by the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, which, by involving all the female colleagues who are members of it and with the intention of affecting all Members of Parliament a little bit at a time, has the aim of creating a bright light on the great issue of the rights of Afghan women. Our desire is that there should not be a spot intervention, of those who may be remembered because they are particularly brilliant, but of which then - as sometimes happens with very brilliant things - we forget the moment. We want to create a common thread that goes through everything that is left of this parliamentary term. Punctually we began on January 1, with the interventions of Senators Pinotti, Faithful, Bonino, Unterberger, Rauti and Vanin. The transversal nature of women in Parliament has assumed as a responsibility within this legislature to keep alive the issue of the right of Afghan women, starting from the right to education as a right to the highest expression of personal freedom. We also worked as hard as possible so that the famous 82 Afghan students who had already obtained a visa to study in Italy could do so. We are working - also with colleagues in the European Parliament - so that the colleges of merit present in Italy, but also in Europe, can welcome Afghan students and, therefore, guarantee them not only the right to study, but also the objective possibility to study, to be accepted and to carry out a programme that we hope will soon be able to draw a return to their lands, to be those that in these twenty years had become real landmarks in the world of communication, academic teaching, research and sport. The Afghan women, in a context and in a climate of greater freedom, have been able to express a potential of truly extraordinary talents and we want to be allies to these talents, so that each of them can really receive all the necessary help to develop them. The second side of this medal could be that, with a strong, determined and determined initiative, we can end even that obnoxious marriages of young age, almost at an early age. The first documentation issued by the Senate's Human Rights Commission in this legislature was quite a no to that kind of marriage. In this way we want, one part, to resume a positive proactive work, and on the other, to put a limit to what is a real scourge. All colleagues have received a communication in this regard and we remind all those who want to participate that every day we come out in the press and with the means that each one can make available to remember it. And we will do something similar - not daily, but weekly - within our Parliament. Thank you very much, President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u82	Thank you, Senator Binetti. This is an issue on which there is all the sensitivity of the Senate and, of course, of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u85	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, last night two bombs exploded in the city of San Severo, in the province of Foggia, and these two bomb attacks follow up on other attacks that have unfortunately always occurred in recent days. It is an escalation of violence that obviously concerns all citizens and economic operators. The province of Foggia is scourged by a violent, dangerous, primitive mob that wants to subdue and intimidate an entire territory. Of course, the state in recent years, especially in the last four years, has achieved many successes and hundreds of anti-mafia operations and hundreds of arrests have taken place. The bosses of the Mafia families are in prison, serving final sentences or awaiting trial and, therefore, the final sentence. Therefore, it is undeniable that the State has done so much: we have brought the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate to Foggia - there was no operational section dislocated - in February 2020, and we are aware of the immense work that the magistrates, men and women of the Forces of Order are doing. But all this obviously is not enough, because the facts show that escalation continues and, therefore, that the Mafia comrades continue to carry out acts that really cast an entire province, the citizens and the towns of my province, into dismay and terror. We call for the State to make its presence felt even more, for there to be an even greater step in order to improve the action of law enforcement against those criminal associations. Therefore, we ask that the San Severo Commissariats be strengthened, which is the town where the last bomb attacks took place, and Cerignola, which has more or less the same problems. We also ask that the pool of judges of the competent anti-mafia district management, which deals with the mafia events of the province of Foggia, be transferred to Foggia precisely to improve its action and to ensure that the law enforcement activity it is carrying out is of even greater quality. Above all, we ask - I appeal to all political forces - that the draft law at my first signature be approved in a very short time, which I hope will be widely shared - just as, in words, I have been assured by other political groups - which aims to establish in Foggia detached sections of the court of appeal, a detached section of the anti-mafia district direction and a section of the court for minors. We are convinced that greater legal and judicial safeguards would give the territory a greater sense of security and would improve the work of contrast that our valiant representatives on the territory, the magistrates, men and women, are carrying out. So I repeat the appeal and thank you all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-393.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 12 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.56 p.m.
