ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 2 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 10.43 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable until 18 March. This morning will be discussed the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for permission to use conversations and telephone communications from Senator Armando Siri in the context of criminal proceedings. The sitting will then be suspended and resumed at 2.30 p.m. with the discussion, until its conclusion, of the draft law on public contracts. To this end, the sitting shall not include closing hours. The deadline for tabling amendments is 11.30 a.m. today. Next week's schedule provides for the discussion of the following topics: report on the activity carried out by the Copasir from 1 January 2021 to 9 February 2022 which, according to the previous ones, will end without votes; from the writing venue, the draft law on the valorization of local food productions (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) and on the food products of the short chain (approved by the Chamber of Deputies); the decree-law so-called support-b. The calendar shall include, if necessary, a session on Friday 18 March. Finally, it is informed that on Wednesday 23 March, at 3.30 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications to the Senate with a view to the European Council of 24-25 March 2022.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new schedule of proceedings until 18 March: [[Wednesday 9 March h. 9.30 - Doc. IV, n. 10 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorization to use conversations and telephone communications with Senator Siri - Draft law n. 2330 - Delegation in the matter of public contracts (final vote with the presence of the quorum)]] Amendments to draft law No 2330 (Delegation on public contracts) will have to be tabled by 11.30 a.m. on Wednesday 9 March. [[Tuesday 15 March h. 16.30-20 - Doc. XXXIV, n. 8 - Report on the activity carried out by the Copasir from 1 January 2021 to 9 February 2022 - Drawing of law n. 728-B - Enhancement of local food productions (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 878 - Short-chain food products (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2505 - Decree-Law n. 4, Support-b (expanded on 28 March) Wednesday 16 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 17 " h. 9.30 Friday 18 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] On Wednesday 23 March, at 3.30 p.m., communications from the President of the Council of Ministers will take place with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2505 (Decree-Law No. 4, Support-b) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 42'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 10, which contains: A request for authorisation to use conversations and telephone communications with Senator Armando Siri in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him, transmitted by the court of Rome, section of the judge for preliminary investigations and preliminary hearing on 17 September 2021. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I recall that the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by majority, to propose to the Assembly to reject the request of the judicial authority regarding the interceptions of 15 May 2018 - progressive n. 2521 and progressive n. 2523 for the uncertain and implausible configuration of the requirement of necessity and, in relation to the progressive phone calls n. 2618 of 17 May 2018, progressive n. 5760 of 27 July 2018, progressive n. 5997 of 4 August 2018, progressive n. 6043 of 6 August 2018, progressive n. 6044 of 6 August 2018 and progressive n. 6090 of 6 August 2018, to reject the aforementioned request without the requirement of chance and occasionality. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Malan, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to briefly supplement the written report. With regard to the details, which are certainly of interest in the examination of this document, I briefly summarize the issue. This is the request for the use of conversation intercepts in which one of the parties is Senator Siri. The court's order requires the use of all of them, but has not requested the authorization (as it is clearly not usable) of the interceptions that occurred after the registration of Senator Siri's suspects in the register. The Junta considered, by majority, to consider clearly not random the phone calls after the first two, which took place on the same day, because from the latter, it was clear that there was a frequency in the conversations between the lawyer Arata (the one whose telephone equipment was intercepted) and Senator Siri. It was therefore clear that, continuing to intercept Arata's phone, Senator Siri's conversations would also be intercepted. Therefore the Junta considered them not random and, consequently, classified these conversations as an indirect interception, but in the knowledge that it was a matter of intercepting a senator's phone calls, which obviously is contrary to Article 68 of the Constitution. As for the interceptions of the first two phone calls, which - it must be said in passing - intervened when the Senator was not yet Undersecretary, office that will assume about a month later, and on the same day, in May 2018, the Junta has found that, in addition to the requirement of the randomness of the capture itself, must exist also that of the necessity. The judgment n. 188 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court specifies that establishing the necessity of the use of interceptions for the purposes of the continuation of investigations is the responsibility of the judicial authority, but it has the duty to represent this necessity to the Chamber of belonging of the parliamentarians that is intercepted, emphasizing that the latter (in this case the Senate) must be able to ascertain, from the examination of the request, that the requirement of the absence of persecutory intent and that of the necessity of the act, motivated in terms of non implausibility. It has to be said that in the same document of the court of Trapani it is stated that it has transmitted all the findings emerged in the context of the procedure in relation to the case relating to the amendment promoted by Paolo Arata and supported by Senator Siri, in his capacity then, that of Undersecretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Therefore, there is even a contradiction in the document itself, which says that, even without these new interceptions, the court was already in possession of everything that was necessary, while, in another verse, it does not give sufficient motivation, going beyond what the same document states, in its need. Therefore, the proposal approved by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is to reject the request for the use of all conversations, with two different reasons: for the first two, the lack of necessity and, as regards subsequent ones, non-occasion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u8	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be a short one to give to all the senators, who have certainly read the documents and documents, a few more instruments of understanding, having naturally discussed and deepened the subject. We must make it clear that the procedure to which our colleague, Senator Armando Siri is subjected, is fundamentally challenged by two conducts: the first is the presentation of an amendment behind a counter-performance and the second is that it has supported it, distinguishing between the role of mere senator and that of representative of the Government. As we always repeat (it is becoming a style clause), it should also be pointed out in this case that it is not up to us to enter into the substance of the dispute over the acts. The references that I will mention serve only and exclusively to give information about the reasoning we have to make. We therefore have two heads of attribution: the head a), in which it is disputed that it has proposed and agreed, and the head b), in which instead reference is made to the conducts put in place as Undersecretary. Now, the judge of the preliminary hearing has already made a very large selection, rejecting a series of requests regarding the usability of interceptions that the prosecutor had made, and motivates it precisely because, from a certain moment on, already according to the gup, although they are indirect interceptions, it is evident that the objective of the investigation is Senator Siri, so this argument has entered into the motivation of the measure to our examination. I see that Senator Malan nods, because he has rightly taken this into account in his report. At this point, we are subjected to eight interceptions. Let us say that peacefully we have reached a majority and not unanimous conclusion. Some Members will disagree with this conclusion, but as far as I am concerned, from what I have been able to examine, my conviction, for six interceptions, is that I fully agree with the conclusions reached by the rapporteur, namely that it is no longer random interceptions, because it is clear that there is now a targeted investigation. There would therefore remain these two May intercepts for the rejection of which the rapporteur gives a different motivation, referring - let us say this - to a literal passage of the motivation of the gup, where he says that they are nevertheless relevant, because he would have acted as Undersecretary. Well, the rapporteur says that at the time of those two interceptions Senator Siri was not Undersecretary, so there is an implausibility of the explanatory statement. This is the only passage in the body of all the motivation that has been taken in a very literal way, but it would suffice to say that in the conclusions, that is, in the "For these reasons" (PQM) the gup nevertheless briefly asks for the use of the interceptions that it proposes, as they are important because they relate to a conduct held as Senator and Undersecretary. This phrase repeats it several times, particularly on page 14, where it repeatedly mentions the fact that they are important first of all as indispensable for the determination of the facts contested, which can only refer to both heads of attribution, Chapter A), which refers to the period in which Siri was still senator, and Chapter b), which refers to the period in which he was Undersecretary. In addition, in several passages, also on page 13, Senator Armando Siri refers to the engaging interceptions, as happens several times on page 14 (I do not quote all the passages, because I want to keep very far from my argument the merit of a trial that must not interest us absolutely and there is no thesis on the accusation from this point of view; (I don't need to say it, but I want to do it): As pointed out in the premise, Senator Armando Siri, behind............ etc., would have proposed and agreed...... (it is said of Senator and not of Undersecretary). That's part of the motivation. Therefore, several parts of the explanatory statement refer to a conduct as a senator and - as I said - the conclusions say that the aforementioned interceptions are absolutely relevant for the evaluation of the facts, since the same emerge the contacts between the entrepreneur and the parliamentarians, aimed at the presentation of the amendments, and that they appear strictly representative of the space-time context in which the senator and undersecretary Armando Siri would operate. In conclusion, when examining the reasons, these must of course be examined as a whole and also according to the logic of the measure we are dealing with. It is clear that in the conclusions - indeed, before the PQM formula - concluded - otherwise I would have been the first to worry about a lack of logical motivation and to put forward a hypothesis of rejection - the explanatory statement - and it could not be otherwise - refers to the conduct contested in both heads of attribution, where a part peacefully concerns also the activity of senator. The explanatory statement refers to a context, to a reconstruction of the facts, which of course is not for us at this time to investigate or reconstruct. Therefore, for all these reasons, I do not think that the criterion of implausibility and illogicality can be used, and then transport it on necessity, with reference to the two intercepts of May. I would add that this is a criterion which is not alien to our assessments, and you, colleagues, will see that it will come to this House on other occasions. For example, those who talk to you about this criterion have made use of it, but more correctly and more convincingly. There is no shortage of opportunities and, precisely for this reason, I would try to use it appropriately. For all these reasons and also in order to present measures that can in any case be unassailable and stand up to any uprisings of attribution conflicts, I think it is to be accepted the demand for inusability of those six and, instead, consider usable those two. So, in advance, I will make a request for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u10	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u13	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, the criminal proceedings against Senator Siri, which is the source of the request for authorisation to use wiretapping of telephone conversations, concern two charges relating to facts relating to alleged cases of corruption. The public prosecutor, as evidence, requested the use of all the interceptions obtained from the cell phone of a non-parliamentary suspect. I fully agree with the choice of the judge of the preliminary hearing in Rome to have carried out a first examination on the request of the prosecutor, reducing his application for authorization to the Senate only in relation to the interceptions prior to the registration of Senator Siri in the register of suspects - registration took place on 25 September 2018 - so considering those successive acts of investigation directed against the parliamentarians, therefore justifiable only in the presence of a prior authorization. In my opinion, the judge made a correct and appreciable distinction from the procedural point of view, in the sense that he requested the authorization of the Senate only for the use of conversations deemed occasional, that is, those which occurred when no concrete elements had yet emerged from which to infer that the intercepted person could be a habitual interlocutor of the parliamentarians. At its meeting of 16 February 2022, the Junta decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to reject the request of the judicial authority: with regard to the two interceptions of 15 May 2018, although considered occasional due to the uncertain and implausible configuration of the requirement of necessity; and in relation to the subsequent ones, from May to August 2018, due to the lack of the requirement of occasionality. With reference to the present case, melius re perpensa, I believe that not only the first two phone calls of 15 May 2018 - very short and on the same day - but also that of just two days later (the phone call of 17 May), are all three to be considered certainly unpredictable, occasional and fortuitous. In the short space of two days, how could the investigators have realized that the interlocutor "Armando" was a parliamentarians and, evaluated in the customary relationship with the entrepreneur Arata, immediately suspend the collections and request authorization from the Senate? The Junta, in the approved report and today in the examination of the Assembly, although considered occasional and therefore fortuitous only the first two interceptions (those of 15 May 2018), nevertheless denied its authorization from the point of view of the uncertain and implausible configuration of the requirement of necessity, as intercepted before the office of Undersecretary that Senator Siri assumed on 13 June 2018. An alleged contradiction of the explanatory statement would create - according to the approved report - a significant margin of uncertainty with regard to the requirement of the means of proof, as outlined by the Constitutional Court. In order to deny the authorization, the report makes use of a reference contained in the request of the judicial authority of Rome: it is a title given to the information of the DIA of Trapani, and not of the court - as it is erroneously written in the report - with which the intercepts are transmitted to the district direction antimafia of Palermo. In this heading it is written and I quote: Vicenda on the amendment proposed by the entrepreneur Paolo Arata and supported by Senator Siri in his capacity as then Undersecretary of MIT. I would like it to be clear that we are talking about a heading, a title given by the judicial police to a final document of the interceptions, begun since Senator Siri was senator and completed when he was Undersecretary. This heading cannot in any way replace the assessment of the facts, which is for the judge alone and only. In this regard, it is overlooked that the need for the Constitutional Court should be assessed in relation to the accusatory hypothesis that it is irrelevant that support for a legislative amendment in exchange for usefulness (it is referred to as EUR 30,000) should be given in the capacity of Senator or Undersecretary, since both of these statuses have the political and factual power to intervene. So much so that the head of attorney disputes the fact in the dual capacity of public officer, without any distinction between the office of senator and that of Undersecretary. Moreover, in the justification for the request for authorisation, the judge of the preliminary hearing in Rome literally expresses himself as follows: The above interceptions are absolutely relevant for the assessment of the facts. The same appear to be strictly representative of the space-time context in which the Senator and Undersecretary Armando Siri would have operated, following the delivery or promise of money in the illicit ways and purposes proposed by the public accusation. This is the reason for the need for the means of proof and the appropriateness and plausibility of the motivation. It is precisely the Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 188 of 2010, that the assessment of the actual existence of this need is undoubtedly the responsibility of the requesting judicial authority and that authority is therefore required to determine in a specific way the connotations of the measure and to give adequate account of its reasons with reasons that are not implausible, as has happened and has been largely done in the present case. The argument supported by the report is therefore not entirely acceptable, but even captious as well as unreasonable and based on non-existent factual elements, and exposes - this time yes - the Senate to the possibility that the judge of the preliminary hearing raises a conflict of powers before the Constitutional Court. As I have been able to say recently, I think that the discipline that governs these prerogatives of Members needs a re-examination. I am working to submit as soon as possible a draft amendment to the law implementing Article 68 of the Constitution, including what has been said in recent days regarding technological innovations to be equated with the discipline of random interceptions. I believe that this initiative, through a more precise procedure to be adopted by the judicial authority, can be useful in ensuring greater protection of Parliament's prerogatives and in defining its borders better. For the reasons set out above, I announce the vote against the proposed report by Liberi e Uguali-Ecosolidali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u16	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I would like to refer to the general debate on the explanatory statement of our agreement to the report, with regard to the part referring to the six interceptions deemed unusable, because the senator was already subject to investigative attention, and to the opposition to it with regard to the part relating to the two interceptions in May; the latter would be considered not usable from the point of view of the implausibility of the explanatory statement and, therefore, of the necessity. On this point, I would just like to remind all of us that the role we play here is very important in institutional and constitutional architecture, that is, the defence not simply of prerogatives; but, entering into the sphere of prerogatives and application of the Constitution, we are in the constitutional culture of separation between the powers of the State. Since I believe - as I have said several times - that it is a sensitive subject, which, among other things, in the evolution of society undergoes compressions and solicitations, it is a delicate role and, therefore, to exercise it correctly, in balance, according to this conception, ultimately means defending the prerogatives of Members and not exposing them to forms of delegitimization that risk overwhelming the plant. Having said that, the proposal for a separate vote - the technically clear explanation - is worded as follows: a first part - refers to interceptions Nos 2521 and 2523 - up to the words "of necessity". We are voting against this report. A second part - refers to intercepts no. 2618, 5760, 5997, 6043, 6044 and 6090 - up to the words "and occasionality": on this part of the report our vote is in favour. Mr President, I would like to add that it remains in the Minutes - as is said in other places - so that it is considered to be an important part of the work with regard to this measure, that our request and my subsequent explanation of vote mean that the report is to be considered justified with regard to what will be approved in the legislative part. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u19	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems frankly difficult to endorse the final proposal of Senator Malan, aimed at rejecting the request of the judicial authority regarding the interceptions of 15 May 2018 - progressive No 2521 and progressive No 2523 - for the uncertain and implausible configuration of the requirement of necessity, as well as, in relation to the progressive calls No 2618 of 17 May 2018, progressive No 5760 of 27 July 2018, progressive No 5997 of 4 August 2018, progressive No 6043 of 6 August 2018, progressive No 6044 of 6 August 2018 and progressive No 6090 of 6 August 2018, to reject that request without the requirement of chance and occasionality. It is difficult to argue from the point of view of the lack of the requirement of necessity because the judge for preliminary investigations, in the present case, has carried out an examination on the request of the prosecutor, reducing the scope of the interceptions to be submitted to the application for authorization. Already before our examination, the request for the use of numerous interceptions was not endorsed, as the judge for preliminary investigations identified the very indirect nature of these interceptions. After such a broad skimming, the conclusion that the first two interceptions lack the assumption of necessity honestly seems offensive to me to the reasonableness of this House. The argument used by the rapporteur about the non-ownership, at that date, of the post of Undersecretary appears inconsistent, since Senator Siri was nevertheless a Member of Parliament and, by virtue of this status, had tabled amendments which, according to the accusation, were related to the giving of a utility. It is contested in the final report that the reasons underlying the request for authorisation to use the first two interceptions are mild. It seems that criminal proceedings focused on corruption and corruption are not sufficient grounds to allow the authorisation of the first two interceptions, which certainly stand out for their random nature. We recall - and not incidentally - that, in the current criminal proceedings, Senator Siri is challenged - at the time undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - to have proposed and agreed, with the apical bodies of the ministries competent for the matter, the insertion of regulatory measures of governmental competence of regulatory rank (i.e. the interministerial decree on the incentive of electricity from renewable sources) and also of governmental initiative of legislative rank (the so-called law thousand extensions, the law of stability and the so-called law of simplification); or to have proposed amendments containing provisions on incentives for the so-called mini wind energy, receiving the promise and/or the giving of 30,000 euros by Mr. Paolo Franco Arata, administrator of Etnea srl and dominus of Solcara srl, administered by his son Francesco Arata (operating companies in that field), who - according to the judicial authority - would have benefited from such measures of an economic nature. Siri, again in his dual capacity as Senator and State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in competition with other co-defendants, disputes that he has acted in order to obtain an ad hoc regulatory measure that would finance, even to a minimum extent, with deferment of the entire financial coverage in the coming financial years, the project to complete the airport of Viterbo, of interest to Leonardo spa, for future orders. Senator Siri would also exert pressure on the commander-general of the Coast Guard to replace a person responsible for the procedure for certain contracts in existence at the time of the events. In conclusion, despite the accusations and their relevance, there is no requirement for the rapporteur to do so. Legally and politically, we can only express the deepest opposition to the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. For the remaining intercepts the Junta has supported the refusal to the authorization, assuming the change of direction of the act of investigation that you have at the moment when the investigators, starting from the judicial police that is operationally carrying out the interceptions on behalf of the judicial authority, realize the involvement of a parliamentarians and the consequent necessity to request the authorization to continue the collections, which assume indirect nature in this case. The Giunta found the so-called fumus mutationis after the two calls of May 15, 2018. Now we do not understand why the interception of May 17, 2018 cannot fall back, considering the temporal proximity with the first two dates, between the random interceptions. Finally, for all the other interceptions, even if it may be assumed that the investigators have knowledge of the nature of a Member of Parliament of one of the interlocutors, the request of the judicial authority must also be accepted, waiting for the seriousness of the conduct contested to Senator Siri, whose knowledge cannot be reduced within the scheme of parliamentary healings. For all these considerations, I am voting against the report by Senator Malan del Movimento 5 Stars. In the event of a split vote, we will diversify the vote according to the wording of the split vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u20	Senator D'Angelo, I shall therefore take your floor as an assent to the proposal for a separate vote. If there is no dissenting with regard to requests for a split vote, we shall proceed to a split vote. I want to have the attention of Senator Rossomando in order to have the confidence of what we are going to vote for. With respect to the report of the Council, until the word "necessity" is put to the vote the two interceptions with the progressive nn. 2521 and 2523 and the reasons why it is proposed to reject them. If we vote in favour, we shall vote for the second part from the word 'and' until the end of the report. If it doesn't, I'll see if I can offer you something else. In case the first part is rejected, I will ask you to supplement as follows: the Junta proposes in relation, etc., limited to the other six phone calls and with the reasons already exposed only to those, keeping separate - as you requested - the motivations of one from the other. I would like to refer to the vote on the first part of the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity until the words 'of necessity'. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote on the second part of the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity, from the words 'in relation' to the end. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As already announced, I suspend our work until 14.30. (The sitting was suspended at 11.28 a.m. and resumed at 2.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2330. The rapporteurs, Senators Pergreffi and Cioffi, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pergreffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u22	Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank Deputy Minister Bellanova for the support he has given at this time on a rather complicated measure, but at the same time he has had a good development, thanks to all the members of the 8th Commission, to the Group leaders, to the President and to the Commission's legislative offices, which have done a great deal. The draft law, of governmental initiative, consists of a single article and gives a delegation to the Government to adopt within six months one or more legislative decrees with the discipline of public contracts. The purpose of the draft law, consisting of a single article, is to simplify, rationalise and reorder the rules on public contracts and to avoid the initiation of infringement procedures by the European Commission and to reach the resolution of those already initiated. The draft law lists the principles and guiding criteria to be followed by the Government and, among them, the need to avoid gold plating; the forecasting and redefinition of the qualification of the contracting stations and their staff; the simplification of the rules applicable to public contracts for works, services and supplies exceeding the thresholds of European relevance; the simplification of procedures for the realisation of investments in green, digital, innovation and research technologies, including for the achievement of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; the reduction and certainty of the time limits for the tendering and conclusion of contracts and the execution of contracts; the revision and simplification of the procedures for the approval of projects in the field of public works; the incentive for the use of flexible procedures for the conclusion of complex public contracts of long duration; the simplification of the extension of public-private partnership forms, with particular regard to project finance; the identification of public contracts excluded from the scope of the European directives and the simplification of the legal discipline applicable to them; the prohibition of the extension of the arrangements for the extension of public-private partnership, with regard to the implementation of contracts for the implementation of contracts for the purposes of which have been extended; and the implementation of contracts to be subject to be subjected; the implementation of contracts for the implementation of contracts which have been subjected; and the implementation of the implementation of contracts with regard to be subject to be subject to the conditions of the conditions of contracts for the conditions of contracts for granting to which have been subject to be extended; the conditions of contracts for the conditions for granting to be extended; and to be extended to be extended; the implementation of contracts for granting of contracts for granting of contracts for granting of contracts for granting to be subject to be subject to be subject to which have been concluded; the conditions of contracts for granting of contracts for granting; the conditions of contracts for granting; the conditions of contracts for granting; the conditions of contracts for the conditions of contracts for granting to be subject to which have been extended; the conditions of contracts for granting to be subject to be subject to be subject to which have been concluded; the conditions of contracts for the conditions of contracts for granting to be subject to be subject to be subject to be extended; the conditions of contracts for granting to be determined; the conditions for granting; the conditions of contracts for granting to be determined; the implementation; the implementation; the implementation of contracts for granting; the conditions of contracts for granting; the conditions of contracts for granting of contracts for granting of contracts and It is established that the legislative decrees thus adopted expressly repeal all the provisions under review and in any case those related to them incompatible and make appropriate coordination provisions in relation to provisions not repealed or not modified. The thorough work carried out by the 8th Commission on this measure, which began last autumn, included a comprehensive round of hearings of the main players in the sector and led to the adoption of 83 amendments, which together made some 30 amendments to the text. This amending activity was inspired by a method shared in the Commission in the early stages of the debate, aimed at meeting the need to define more precisely the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation, with the intention not to overburden the text. In the course of the examination, in particular, some issues have emerged which have seen a broad convergence of the majority groups, often even with the opposition, in a fruitful dialogue with the Government. Firstly, the need to encourage the participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises has been shared, by including an indication in this respect already in the first steering criterion and then introducing a specific steering criterion aimed at providing for the possibility of dividing contracts on the basis of qualitative and quantitative criteria; and the prohibition of artificial aggregation of lots, in line with the principles of small business act, also in order to enhance the value of neighbouring companies. Another theme that, given the particular historical moment we are experiencing, could not but be the subject of particular attention is that of the price review. The wording on which it was finally possible to agree provides for the requirement for contracting stations to include, in calls for tenders, notices and invitations, in relation to the different types of public contracts, a compulsory price review regime when particular conditions of an objective and non-predictive nature occur at the time the tender is made, establishing that any charges arising from the above-mentioned price review mechanism are based on the resources available from the economic framework of the interventions and on any other resources available for the purchasing station to be used in accordance with the accounting procedures for expenditure. Another issue on which wide convergence has been observed has been the prohibition for contracting stations, with reference to contracts below the thresholds of European importance, to use, for the selection of operators to be invited to the negotiated procedures, the draw or other random method of names, if not in the case of specific or specifically motivated situations. Scrolling through the regulatory article, among the various changes made there are also the following: with reference to the prohibition of gold plating, it has been specified that the unrogability of measures to protect the work, safety, the contrast to irregular work, legality and transparency remains firm. A reference to the different types of public contracts has been inserted regarding the redefinition of the secondary discipline regime. As regards the qualification of contracting stations, a reference has been inserted to the monitoring of the aggregation and reorganisation of contracting stations and the forecast of specific training courses, with particular reference to the single contracting stations and the purchasing power stations operating at the service of local authorities. A new letter was inserted to promote, in compliance with European law, the use by contracting stations of supplies in that part of products originating in third countries which make up the offer, which is not major in relation to the total value of the products. New guiding principles with respect to the original text concern the rationalization and simplification of the causes of exclusion, in order to make clear and certain the rules of participation; the provision, in the case of entrusting the tasks of design to internal staff to contracting authorities, of the signing of specific insurance policies for the coverage of risks of a professional nature, with burdens on the same administrations; the definition of the rules applicable to public contracts in the field of research and development services. As regards the qualification of operators, a reference has been inserted to the adequacy of technical equipment and staff. The Commission has also introduced a new delegation criterion, aimed at redefining the rules governing the variants in progress, within the limits laid down by the European law, in relation to the possibility of amending contracts during the implementation phase. Another novelty compared to the original draft law concerns the revision of the rules on social services, hospital, welfare and school catering, as well as labour-intensive ones, providing, as a criterion that can be used for the purposes of the award, only that of the most economically advantageous offer. The Commission also considered it appropriate to mention in the text framework agreements, service concessions, the financial lease of public works or utilities. A revision of the guarantee system for the participation and execution of public contracts was also envisaged, providing for the possibility, in relation to the guarantees for the execution of contracts, to replace them by carrying out a guarantee withholding proportionate to the amount of the contract, at the time of the payment of each progress of the works. In the field of concessions, it is expected that concessions in place and not entrusted with the form of project finance, i.e. with public evidence tendering procedures, in accordance with European Union law, with specific regard to the situations in which there is an obligation, in accordance with criteria of graduality and proportionality, and taking into account the size, characteristics of the concessionaire, the time of allocation of the concession, its duration, the object and its economic value, to entrust to third parties, through public evidence procedures, part of the contracts of works, services and supplies relating to the same concessions, ensuring the stability of the staff employed and the safeguarding of professionalism. Finally, a new delegation criterion has been introduced, specifically dedicated to the simplification of payment procedures by contracting stations, of the contract fee, including by reducing the administrative burden on businesses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u23	I call the rapporteur, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u24	Mr President, I am supplementing the report by the rapporteur, Mrs Pergreffi, whom I would like to thank publicly, because we have done a good job as co-rapporteurs. Thanks, of course, must also be extended to the Government, because we have managed to find a balanced solution. It does not respond 100% to Parliament's demands, of course, but it is a balanced solution and, therefore, we can be satisfied. In addition to the report by Senator Pergreffi, I would like to talk about a number of issues, such as, for example, the removal from the original text of the Government of the criterion of the lowest price, the maximum decrease, in the award of tenders based only on the price criterion. This is interesting because it opens the way to the issue of the award method based only on price; it reopens the way to the very ancient theme of the media that - as we all remember - dates back to before the Merloni era, when the regulation was that of 1895 and lasted for one hundred and ten years and, therefore, from the very long and profound history. The anti-turbation system allows to eliminate the distortions related to the old history. This is also in line with the automatic exclusion of anonymous offers, already provided for in this text of the Procurement Code contained in Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016. This is an interesting step forward, always to contain the downs that are sometimes very strong. The delegation also introduced the mandatory minimum environmental criteria: another important issue since the Chambers recently amended Article 9 of the Constitution, intervening precisely on this issue and including the issue of environmental protection and animals within Part I of the Constitution. This is an important intervention since, for the first time, Part I has been touched on. Therefore, we also wanted to incorporate this address in the procurement code by including not only the mandatory minimum environmental criteria, but also the valorisation in the tender phase: this gives greater strength and is consistent with the above constitutional change, even if with a transitional period that serves to allow the company to work well and, therefore, to reach the objective that we all aim to achieve. Then there are the inclusions on social clauses, which in this period, especially in the service sector, are an important element, because they serve to protect the people who work in the sector. Particular attention has therefore been paid to this issue. From the point of view of digitization, we have intervened by entering an explicit reference to the national database of public contracts and to the virtual file of economic operators: a great simplification that is offered to operators, because obviously everything that is inserted in the virtual file can no longer be requested by the contracting administration, and this certainly facilitates the path. It is the implementation of something that actually started many years ago that we are finally achieving this goal of great simplification for businesses. I refer to a point already mentioned by Senator Pergreffi, that is the part relating to the qualification of the operators: we have inserted an explicit reference to the adequacy of the technical equipment of the staff, a paragraph reported in the SOA discipline. In Legislative Decree No. 50, the limit was set at 30% of the contract amount, which was then repealed because it was not consistent with Community directives. To ensure that companies are companies that do the work, that they have men and means, is absolutely essential in order to avoid financializing the system; the system must be not financial, but concrete, real, with operators and means able to do the works. The cultural approach behind this change is aimed at encouraging healthy businesses, who work in practice, and not those who only deal with financial mediations or such things. We then have a reference - as Senator Pergreffi recalled - to small and very small enterprises, to the valorization of neighbouring enterprises as well. This is also an important issue, because it serves to facilitate the fabric of Italian companies that, as we all know, is characterized by very small companies, with on average less than nine units. We must make the most of the great Italian heritage, and there has been a great convergence of views on this of all the parliamentary forces. With regard to the prohibition of drawing lots, we recall that in the various simplification decrees the possibility of using the negotiated negotiation, referred to in Articles 62 and 63 of the current procurement code, has been increased to 5 million, which is a transitional rule that has been introduced to address the emergency Covid and which ends in June 2023. We hope, therefore, that the negotiated negotiations will be part of the original beehive, where a limit was set, in order to facilitate the whole process. The last topic I want to discuss is that relating to paragraph 4, where we talk about the fact that the Government can delegate the text of the decree to the Council of State. The Commission intervened by strengthening Parliament's powers and thus providing, if the Government decides to delegate to the Council of State, for the Council of State to carry out technical functions as well. It is important to consider that those who write the code know what a construction site is or how a competition is done, so this interaction is useful and important for achieving the objective, but also and above all for the sake of Parliament there is the double parliamentary passage that provides, once the legislative decree has been issued and arrives in the Commission, that the Commission can make observations but also lay conditions and, in case the Government does not intend to transpose them, must justify the reason and return to the Parliamentary Commission. In short, there has been a desire to strengthen in an important way the parliamentary power to interact with the procurement code. Maybe we could add something else after we've heard all the senators' speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u25	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u26	Mr President, the rapporteurs have already been exhaustive enough, on the contrary, if I were to refer to the work we have done in the Commission, perhaps they have gone too far in the details, for a delegation law like this one, and therefore they could also be taken into account in their presentation. Beyond the lines, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Commission for the work carried out with a great sense of responsibility and great collaboration, which I feel I can also define constructively by the member of the Brothers of Italy, who has never failed to seek and find solutions that go in the direction of a utility for the country. I must also thank Deputy Minister Bellanova and Minister D'Incà for the frankness and courtesy of their work. Despite this, I still have a doubt: the Commission has done its job, but I do not know if we have done it, ladies and gentlemen, to the full and completely our duty, because the text has improved, but I really believe that more could be done. Too many times there is this constraint, which we are now carrying, at least in this parliamentary term, so that Parliament is basically right to intervene, but as little as possible. I believe that this is not in line with what must be our ability to intervene on the legislative texts that are brought to our attention. Simplification and operation: we need to speed up procurement procedures. This is the issue of the legislative text that we are dealing with and it is what we expect from the decrees that will be issued; but it will not be easy, I say it clearly: it will not be easy because it needs more courage and I hope that this courage will be found when the texts are written. With the National Recovery and Resilience Plan we will be called as a country to invest from five to ten times our normal annual capacity: with respect to normality, we will have a capacity - and I would add a duty - of spending and investment that will be five to ten times normal, that already sees us in distress. We are already struggling when public works - at national, regional or local level - are measured in a design that cannot last less than a year and often lasts even three years. After that, there is the custody through competition of the works and also this - except contentious - normally lasts one, two, three years and after five-six years we are in front of a work that can see starting its own works but that at the same time risks being no longer current. We must measure ourselves with this when we say, confirm and repeat that we must be more courageous. We must overcome this great, too much mistrust that we maintain in public-private collaboration. It seems that we write the texts, because some instruments exist, almost as if we did not want them to be used. I am talking about the public private partnership (PPP), the availability contract which, thanks to the amendments, has been discussed within the Commission, and is a tool provided for in the code but not used because those changes that would make it usable are not made. When I say that these instruments must be made usable, I mean before it is too late. It is my belief that, within one or two years, we will be chasing the private sector and their contribution to the implementation of the PNRR; but it will run the risk of being too late. We have to leave now, we have to do it now before it's too late. Yes, it is true - it is in the intentions and I hope also in the result of our work - that we must restore to the provisions of the code simplicity and clarity of language. In this area too, however, the Government-Parliament relationship is indeed correct, but, as I said before, it risks seeing too much resistance to real cooperation and I believe that this is serious, especially in the context of a delegation such as this. If, in fact, Parliament has to say as little as possible when it has to give directions for the implementation of a delegation to the Government, I think it is not on the right track. Well, however, the result, and for this - I repeat - I thank the representatives through whom the Government intervened trying to find those spaces that seemed unattainable. It is okay to update prices as well as the enhancement of small businesses. Well the limitation to the minimum of the method of the draw. However, there are some issues that are not understandable. One was mentioned by the rapporteur. I am referring to the subject of the Council of State. It is provided by the law that the Government can use the Council of State to enact legislative measures, we would miss it; on the contrary, I believe it is an instrument not only useful, but many times it has been really valuable for our legislation. The fact that the Council of State will write the implementing decrees - which, I repeat, may be a good thing - I honestly did not understand why we wrote it in the text. The government can do it automatically and independently: why did we write it in the text? I think it was wrong to include it in the text, partly because I too find - there has been a debate - that it has never happened that it has delegated such an important competence to the Council of State by writing it in a legislative text. It was done in fact. It's good that it is. Fortunately, we have as a country a Council of State and therefore technical advisors who really live up to the situation, expressing great legislative capacity and it is good to ensure that they can serve the implementation of our work and therefore of standardization. However, I repeat that we do not like the fact that we have deliberately moved forward by confirming the presence in the text. I do not think this has been appropriate; we have taken it as a clearly acceptable request, but we do not like it. We do not think it is going in the right direction either because, whatever the reading, it is difficult to understand in a certain sense and does not leave us alone. What is the reading? Did the government want to assure Parliament that it would not write the delegated texts? There was no need for it and honestly it seems inappropriate and inappropriate enough. It would be the emphasis of a lack of self-confidence and that is not good. We are also embarrassed by the interpretation that may place us in relation to Parliament, such as those who must tell the Government not to do the texts, but to delegate them, writing it in the draft law; in fact, I would never have allowed myself to submit an amendment that would oblige the Government to absolutely and necessarily give the Council of State this competence which, however valuable, was appropriate for it to be present. I mean, from this point of view, it's a mess. It is essential, however, to achieve the objective and in this the Commission and the Government have worked well to arrive in the right and unique direction to build a measure that can give the answers that citizens, businesses and the country ask us for. We also hope that in the next six months, in which the texts will be adopted, a constructive and collaborative relationship will be maintained with Parliament, because it is in the interests of everyone and above all in the interests of the country. Of course we will do our part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u27	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u28	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure in our examination delegates the Government, as they have been able to explain in a very broad way the rapporteurs, to adopt within six months of the date of entry into force, the decrees relating to the discipline of public contracts that must be adapted mainly to European legislation. The aim is to rationalise, rearrange and simplify. History teaches: then, taking a path in the most recent past, I would like to recall several measures that have tried to regulate and regulate this important sector of the Italian economy and the regulation of public spending, where public and private are found to interfere by contracting bonds, each for their respective competences and roles, to create development, build infrastructure, ensure maintenance, services and supplies. Up to a couple of decades we were still referring to Royal Decree No 350 of 1895, which was applied for more than a century, repealed by the decree of the President of the Republic No 554 of 1999. I still remember Law No 55 of 1990, which introduced restrictions on subcontracting. It was operated in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic no. 1063 of 1961. It is also worth remembering the Law No. 109 of 1994, the framework law on public works, conceived immediately after a troubled period that was defined the end of the First Republic in the nineties. A new system for the qualification of enterprises was introduced, which began with the decree of the President of the Republic No. 34 of 2000. It is worth recalling other significant rules: from Law No 166 of 1 August 2002, to Legislative Decree No 163, 12 April 2006, to Decree No 207 of the President of the Republic of 5 August 2010, to arrive at the Code of Public Contracts with Legislative Decree No 50 of 18 April 2016. I wanted to make this premise. I have merely listed the main rules that in recent decades have tried to reform and simplify the system of public contracts and introduced new rules for the formulation and management of such contracts, procedures and the system itself for the qualification of enterprises, with even radical changes. We have passed from the National Register of Manufacturers, to the provisions and companies certification bodies (SOA). Paraphrasing the civil code, I would say that the public contract is an act by which a party (a private party, almost always) assumes, with organization of the necessary means and management at its own risk, the completion of a work or a service towards a consideration in money (and this, in this case, for a public body). It is, in the broadest sense, a self-employment benefit, an obligation by way of an undertaking. The content of the service is therefore the completion of a work or service for the production of a result. By work we mean the result of an activity of elaboration and transformation of matter such as to construct a new good, while by service a production of a utility (so the result of a job), without elaboration and transformation of materials. The simpler the supplies, with a simple supply of materials. As the contractor is a public body, however, methods must be put in place to ensure first and foremost transparency of procedures and competition. The main aim of the reform is to reduce the rules and rationalise the public contract sector by harmonising internal rules with Community guidelines. There are several stages already marked: from the revision of the Code of Contracts, to the subsequent implementing decree, to the entry into force of all the laws, regulations and measures implemented for the revision of the system of public contracts, to the full functioning of the national system of e-procurement. We are talking about an organic reform that ensures competitive comparison and simplification of procedures, which is a sine qua non for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Clear and irrefutable criteria are needed for the award of orders. Today, it is often the case that the timing of the tendering procedures is often extended considerably as a result of appeals which arise precisely from criteria reported in the notices and in the tender regulations often too complex and exclusive, rather than inclusive, and which therefore are easily suitable to be the subject of litigation, therefore to be challenged. Today, computerization and digitisation can form a solid basis on which the system of public contracts can be reformed in the best possible way: a new, leaner and less costly qualification system and clear and even fast award procedures can characterize this new historical course that we are preparing to undertake, pandemic and unfortunate conflicts at the gates of Europe allowing. Simple rules and clear regulations are the basis of any productive work (whether it is a code, a circular, a ban or a disciplinary) and I would say also indispensable to prevent appeals and litigation. And here we must also insist on the procedures concerning the approval of the projects through the streamlining of every iter that makes a project cantierabile: a company still today - I regret to say - titanic for some types of works and in some contexts, where the very bodies of the State (central and peripheral) often contend opinions and nothing hinders. A good rule in this area is useful in reducing unproductive expenditure on the part of the State and even in reducing labour costs, if you cut or reduce costs on businesses without a clear benefit. The simple delay in any investment programme is already a cost to the investor and to the whole community that benefits from that service or from that work: according to the most recent history I have to say that I see it hard, especially at certain latitudes, where we should perhaps create dedicated task forces. If we go down specifically, for example, I am thinking of the encouragement of project financing procedures, the strengthening of mechanisms for strengthening the procedures for resolving disputes alternative to civil cases, therefore the recourse to the courts, but above all the creation of albums and qualification systems and selection criteria (bands, disciplinary procedures, procedures) in which we can use the new tools that computer technologies offer us today. It could be the right time and a well-designed method could be the right tool for a genuine and more dynamic modernisation of this country and all its decision-making and operational structures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Wolf. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year and a half ago, at the end of a very exhausting negotiation, President Giuseppe Conte was able in his undertaking, I dare say titanic, to make possible what only a few months before seemed a mere utopia on the front of Community policies. With the Next Generation EU, the European Commission basically said goodbye to years of rigid rigorism and to that almost chronic obsession with accounting rules. The pandemic, unleashed at the beginning of that year, forced the leaders of our continent to reverse the economic paradigm, de facto putting gasoline in the reservoir of expansive policies and favouring a new, massive investment plan, in order to allow the economies of the old continent to withstand the frightening impact of the crisis arrived with the spread of the coronavirus. From that famous summer night, as is well known to all, Italy was the country that managed to bring home the largest slice of cake and from there started the path that led us to the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, the classic train that perhaps once passed in life, destined to become in fact a watershed in the political, economic and social history of our country. In providing us, therefore, this unrepeatable opportunity and opportunity, Europe has been peremptory in fixing unequivocal stakes along this path and has asked very clear letters to Italy to abandon its atavistic inconclusion on the front of structural reforms, which for decades have been screaming and often shouting in electoral campaigns, but which then remained dead letter and often stranded in party and political begas. On the regulatory front of public contracts we were already aware from the first day of this legislature that the establishment of the procurement code that emerged from the 2016 reform was definitely fallacious, but also outdated. Like Movimento 5 Stars, a deep work of revisiting has already been carried out before the Covid-19, especially during the first Conte Government with the unblocking-gates and then with the decree-law simplifications in the second Conte Government. Two measures that, in fact, have restarted the machine of the construction sites of the great public works in the country, completely flooded in front of the unsustainable bureaucratic juniper created over the years. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan has, however, made further intervention necessary, in order to simplify even more the regulatory mechanisms of the tenders, in order to allow the entire sector to be able to run, given the tight times that the Plan requires and considered the custom, now, to brazenly dilated timings. I want to be honest: by all the majority forces and not only, here in the Senate, to confirm the fact that the Commission, when it works, works well, there was the greatest willingness towards a constructive approach on this issue. The excellent picture of the method has also been reflected on the substance, given that we have nevertheless brought home considerable results in terms of simplification, transparency and environmental protection. However, as a Member of the 5 Star Movement, I find it necessary to make a further distinction, in all sincerity, with regard to the involvement of the Council of State. We would have seen a much more decisive intervention. It is true that such involvement has been sanctioned by law since remote times, thanks to a royal decree of 1924. One thing, however, is to give the Government the opportunity to call into question the Council of State, another is that this happens essentially by default, with a danger, which should be at the heart of the whole Parliament, that is, that of the de-responsibility of the Government on such a decisive issue. We believe that the roles of Parliament and the Government should remain central and central in a key issue such as public contracts. On this specific point of the results however we brought them home. From now on, if the Government does not intend to comply with the opinions of the parliamentary committees, it will again be called upon to transmit the texts to the Chambers with all the appropriate comments, for a further passage. Again with regard to the drafting by the Council of State of the implementing decrees, there will be an obligation to avail of judges of the TAR, external experts, lawyers and representatives of the General Bill of the State, strictly free of charge. As always, work has been done to reach a sensible compromise and we can only be satisfied, because all political forces obviously would have wanted something more. We have worked with common sense in this Commission in the Senate and now we will have much more business-friendly procedures, not to mention using those very dangerous criteria of the lowest price and the lowest price. It certainly fills us with pride the mandatory minimum environmental criteria. We are still the political force that has fought for years to incorporate environmental protection into our Constitution, a battle that was finally won only a few weeks ago. [[Applause]] Here and now we want to pass a paradigm, even in view of the future, beyond the necessary constitutional reliefs: Parliament and the Government should not be derailed or bypassed on a subject like this, as on many others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Corti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bellanova for his presence, not only today but also during these days that we have been particularly involved in the Commission. Before going into the substance of the measure, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of the 8th Commission who, in a constructive and frank discussion, have addressed the complex issue of delegation to the Government in the field of public contracts. Above all, I extend a special thanks to the two speakers, Senator Pergreffi and Senator Cioffi, who, even before being elected representatives of the sovereign people, are above all an expression of architecture and civil engineering, so they are endowed with great competence and professionalism. [[Applause]] Our contribution to simplifying the rules governing public contracts aims to ensure clarity and support for our productive activities. I have the great honour to be a signatory, together with my colleagues from the League and the entire Commission, of amendments that protect Made in Italy in public supplies, guaranteeing a majority share of Italian products compared to those from other non-EU countries. Indeed, the opportunity to relaunch the European funds and the current crisis of our companies had made urgent action to limit the influx into the European markets of products from non-EU countries at low cost and therefore of poor material. We have clarified and made more understandable to entrepreneurs the rules that constitute the professional wrongdoing and the reasons that could exclude companies from the bans. With the particular sensitivity that characterizes us as League on the territories, we have obtained the possibility to divide or to group the contracts in lots. This will benefit, both in terms of greater market access by small businesses and in terms of the protection of companies operating in a given territory, thus enhancing those of proximity. For another amendment there is also a success, i.e. the mandatory constraint on the review of prices in particular situations. This is a great result in order to compare costs to the real development of the market. This is an important support for local businesses, which will thus be in a position to cope with exceptional and unpredictable situations, such as those we have unfortunately been living for months. The revision of prices, in fact, during the execution of the contract proves necessary in order to maintain the mutual balance between the contractor and the performer and thus gives the possibility to the enterprises to make congruent offers, safeguarding the principle of healthy and fair competition. Moreover, during the examination, a new discipline of the use of the draw has passed, which, thanks to the League, will have to be strongly limited and regulated, because it is a mechanism that degrades the qualification acquired by the enterprises. In addition, we are also proud of an approved amendment, which provides for insurance policies to be borne by contracting stations to cover professional risks in favour of staff employed by contracting stations, which was not taken for granted. Thus, their costs will be borne by the contracting stations themselves. Finally, two agendas were also accepted by the League and three other important Commission agendas which, as the Lega Group, we have signed. They provide, by the Government, the commitment to provide for a review of the tariffs of the companies certification body, the so-called SOA, to enhance the experience of the technical director of the works, to regulate the theme of fair compensation for professionals engaged in public contracts, to timely implement an Italian digital platform of constructions and to provide for the simplification of anti-mafia checks. I agree with the words spoken by my friend, Senator Paroli, just now, because it is clear that Parliament, despite the work that has been done in the Commission and despite the concrete results that have been achieved, must return to being an active part of the legislation and must not derogate from other bodies the task for which we have been elected. However, I can say that we are proud to have brought these results home, which are concrete, the result of negotiations with the majority and with the government. And it turns out the League couldn't have gotten by the opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u33	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u34	Mr President, the need for effective economic recovery policies today leads us to discuss public procurement, which has always been a fundamental lever of economic and social policy. Precisely in the emergency phase of Covid, the theme has taken on an essential and renewed function to combat the crisis, with the possibility of immediate liquidity being placed in the production system. Recovery and resilience therefore cannot fail to take into account the issues never resolved by procurement legislation. It is important that, precisely in the context of the PNRR, it has been decided to intervene to regulate the subject of public contracts with urgent measures - we already know the decrees approved - and measures under the regime. Precisely among the measures under the scheme is the revision of the current framework of the Public Contract Code, which, although updated and integrated in 2016, presents significant implementation difficulties. This is to say that the draft law delegation that we discuss, approved by the Government in June 2021, is part of the reforms provided for by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and intends, in order to avoid infringement procedures, certainly to transpose the three EU directives (No 23, No 24 and No 25 of 2014), regarding the reduction and the certainty of the times related to the tendering procedures, the conclusion of contracts, the realization of public works, the digitalization and computerization of the procedures, the simplification and the widening of the forms of public-private partnership. At the same time, the measure under consideration aims to reduce to the maximum the rules that go beyond those required by European legislation, instead comparing Italian legislation with that adopted also in other Member States of the Union, especially taking into account the regulatory disciplines of the countries that for some time have implemented in a concrete way the simplification and speeding up of procedures. In the Committee on Public Works and Communications here in the Senate we discussed a lot about the text of this bill and I thank the Government, in the people of Deputy Minister Bellanova and Minister D'Incà, and the speakers, Senators Pergreffi and Cioffi. Forza Italia, who has always shared the reform of the code, has contributed with the proposal of several improvements to the text, also on the basis of the hearing of interested parties, that is those people and those companies that face daily the difficulty of application in the concrete of the legislation and the bureaucratic delays. With all my colleagues, even those of the opposition, whom I particularly thank for the contribution they have made to keep the work going in a more serene way, we have managed to define a text certainly not perfect, as has been highlighted also by the previous speeches of the rapporteurs, but that represents a starting point to resolve the criticalities present in the current code of contracts, which, before real content, lacks clarity and exhibition simplicity. After the approval of the law, the implementing decrees will be adopted within six months of the entry into force of the law itself, by the Council of State. On what is established by law and wanted in this case strongly by the Government I do not dwell, although I share the concerns highlighted in the first place by the speakers, but also by my colleague Paroli in a clear way. These implementing decrees must therefore provide for greater clarity of language and, as far as the substance is concerned, ensure compliance with the criteria expressed by Parliament: I am referring to opening up to competition and competitive comparison between operators in the markets for works, services and supplies, with a simplification of the rules applicable to these sectors, and also taking into account the specificities. This is the result of an amendment by Forza Italia, shared with all the majority forces, in the field of contracts in the field of cultural goods, with the provision of the prohibition for contracting stations to use, for the selection of operators to be invited to the negotiated procedures, the draw or other method of random extraction of names, if not in the presence of specific and specifically motivated situations. It is also expected to redefine the rules on procurement stations, with a particular emphasis on training and specialization of staff, as well as the prospect of a stabilisation of precarious staff, and appropriate regulation of turnover. It is necessary to think of the reduction of the times of realization of the public works, with specific interventions on the procedures relative to the phase of approval of the projects, also redefining and reducing the levels of design and slimming the procedures of verification and validation of the projects and then favor, through real measures, the investments in green and digital technologies in order to fall within the objectives of sustainable development, respect of environmental and energy responsibility. These are just a few flashes. The key topics of this delegation law are the usual ones, they are the oldest ones that for some time require answers and that today we have the concrete possibility to resume, to update and contextualize, in order to actually allow the realization of that reform that we have been waiting for and for which it is necessary to satisfy the expectations with a tangible commitment of the Government in full collaboration with the Parliament both for the historical impact of the GDP of public purchases, pairs to approximately 11%, and for the meaningful perspectives of expenditure and investment enabled by the PNRR, in order to make usable therefore every instrument available before it is too late. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u35	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Vice-Minister, the two rapporteurs and the whole Commission, including the minority, for the work that has been carried out, which has actually been very fruitful and which has been as smooth as it should be for a job of this magnitude, because this measure stems from a really fundamental and important necessity, because by now European norms did not allow us to go further with the old code, we were in some cases in breach and therefore we had to go to remedy by defining a new code for which this delegation is given to the Government in order to compensate and repair the distortions that had now occurred. In addition to this, the PNRR provided for the definition of a new code, because, as it was written black on white, this code caused several implementation difficulties: it was seen that it was a code that did not work. There is a need for rationalization, reordering and simplification of the rules. How many times in recent times have we said that things have worked out well? After the tragedy of the bridge in Genoa, there was almost a miracle, from the point of view of businesses and works and it was a success of Italy, because the bureaucracy, for once, had left room for common sense. At this point, however, we cannot allow this experience, this success simply to remain a parenthesis: we must take an example from what has been done good and carry it forward. In the contents, it was therefore necessary to give a delegation to the Government to define a code more adherent to the European norms, that did not provide for the strict norms quite absurd, abstruse, purely Italian, in order to allow a recovery of competitiveness also of our companies at European level, without having to serve a birth penalty. We need a reduction in time, a certainty of time to do this work. We need to streamline procedures, speed up responses to the world of work, focus and focus our energies in order to actually succeed in the contract rather than waste time preparing for the contract. It was necessary to introduce innovations that were intelligent and actually aimed at improving the situation in the world of work. We needed, for example, to provide penalties and premiums: penalties to stimulate better and rewards that could actually encourage those who work well. It was necessary to introduce rules that would favour investments and green technologies or digital innovation, sustainable development: all measures included in this standard that works properly. (15.32) (Follows CAMPARI). In the Commission, work has been done in this direction, which has also improved the text: for example, secondary discipline has been redesigned, because not all contracts and works are equal, so, depending on the types of contract, the rules have been made even more slender, fit and simple. A facility has been provided, for example, for access to work by micro-enterprises: this is going to solve a problem that has been pointed out several times, with the aim of rewarding the virtuous enterprises of the territory. [[Applause]] , those small businesses that we know, that work, those at zero kilometer. This through the impedance of subdivision into fictitious lots or the amalgamation of fictitious lots. Therefore, it has been given value to neighbouring enterprises. Work has been done on limiting the draw, also in this case aimed at enhancing quality, because here too we have to go on what we know and that works. Minimum environmental criteria have been defined: this is right; we are at a time when we have a new awareness of how important it really is to respect the environment, but this must be done gradually and with adequate time to enable companies to align themselves with these needs. Made in Italy has been defended through the inclusion of a premium for those who use mostly Italian products, absolute guarantee of quality. [[Applause]] Very important clauses have been included, also in this case particularly relevant to small businesses: I am referring to the price review, therefore the possibility of adjusting the price paid to companies in the event of exceptional and unforeseeable events. A comprehensive work has been done to make procurement actually more manageable and objectively operational and functional so that a work is carried out in an appropriate, just and correct manner. I think that good work has been done and that the Government now has the opportunity to translate the Commission's indication into an effective act. However, we are available for any need. I believe that professionalism within the Commission is a resource to be used, and I therefore only have to wish for a good job so that the Government can organize the implementing decrees at its best and expeditiously - I recommend that all too often the work is stranded in hidden meanders of the Ministry - and a truly effective new measure can soon be launched. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u37	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another piece of the PNRR should be in place. Another piece that this time had caught me with a little more confidence than the usual government activity. When my colleague and leader in the Commission, Senator Ruspandini, informed me that this time there is no confidence, I thought that at last the words of President Mattarella and - let us quote with much less importance - the repeated demands of the opposition for greater involvement of Parliament had taken effect. In this particular case they have had it, which we welcome and hope will be a good hope for the continuation of legislative and parliamentary activity. Analyzing everything, however, we are then faced with a delegation law that is really a delegation in white, it is yet another delegation in white that Parliament, within the framework of the puzzle of the PNRR, entrusts to the Government. A blank delegation which I would like to call double: Parliament gives a blank delegation to the Government and the Government, allow me to play a game of words, gives a further delegation to the Council of State. It is not very simple, it has not been so in the past either, and I believe that those who, at parliamentary level, are older than me, have rarely seen such a phenomenon; they have rarely seen a Parliament delegate the Government and then, in turn, the Government de facto delegate another body of the State to carry out its functions. When we then check in this case, with the utmost esteem and respect for the Council of State, that this delegation is given to a court, who understands some of its procedures, administrative acts, contracts, notices and tenders, some problems if it poses it both from a political and democratic point of view, because the excess of delegation is never positive, and from the point of view of the final result. In fact, to put in the hands of a judge a path that should not only guarantee legality, and so far the judge is fine, but also the practicality and the enforceability of the works, the fact that it really can then be transformed into concrete works as the PNRR must bring to the system, where there are the needs of the companies to sburocratize and simplify, with all respect for the courts, I think it is a risk; it was opportune, indeed, it was necessary not to give exclusively to a judicial body the function of delegation. Instead, one could share a path where the Government, while maintaining the direction and role, shared with judicial technicians, but also of the enterprise and the private, this iter. That is why my analysis of the path was positive in the first instance, at least until I saw that trust was not placed. Even this time, I can't completely calm down. I am faced with a delegation and in addition with a delegation in white which is a double delegation with the intervention of the Council of State. Mr Minister, allow me, as an opposition which certainly does not want to pre-constitute criticism, but to try to make a contribution of proposition and improvement, to give you a signal. It is okay not to resort to trust, but let us try to involve Parliament and the Government to a greater extent in the roles they play. On the substance of the provision, may I refer to a passage that we have certainly shared. I am referring to the ban on uniting lots, a matter which in fact has often prevented our small and medium-sized enterprises from working. This is a positive aspect that we certainly agree with. As Mr Ruspandini will say better in his explanation of vote, however, we would have liked to see much more about the aspects of simplification, deburocratization and speed in the concrete implementation of the works that the various notices and contracts must then guarantee. We would have liked the majority to be more open to the role of the opposition, more open to the proposals that the opposition, always with the seriousness that we would like to distinguish, exercised in the Commission. Let me give you an example of the amendment to avoid the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises which had some problems with the DURC or non-final fiscal irregularities. In fact, let us always remember - as an accountant - that the findings of the Revenue Agency are not a mantra, but the opinion of a party that must possibly be accepted with payment by the taxpayer, or contested and judged by the judicial bodies. Therefore, until the act of ascertainment becomes definitive, to me that I am a liberal that act has no value. In contracts, a small and medium-sized undertaking which has an act of verification is excluded. This is unacceptable. We had therefore asked for remedies especially for those companies which may not have been able to pay (and are perhaps also the victims of investigations) because of that public administration which does not pay them what is due. Therefore, a double mockery: they are excluded without having definitive acts and the possible irregularity is due to an irregularity of the State, the Regions, the Municipalities and all those public administrations that have not paid them. Minister, you will understand that accepting that amendment by Brothers of Italy would be an act of justice towards the Italian system and not a favor to a force of opposition. We are in general discussion and I would also like to reflect on the other reforms integrated into the PNRR, on which we would also like to see a different attitude from the majority and the government. Let us think, for example, of tax reform: in that case too, a law of delegation and we also see that the Government wants to maintain absolute control so that we can then - we have to tell ourselves and tell the citizens and voters who listen to us - legislate through delegated decrees on which Parliament can only give an advisory opinion. Therefore, heavy delegation on the reforms of the PNRR. In the context of tax reform, a topic that is making many talk and angry many is the reform of the land registry. Mr. Minister, beyond what you think (of course your thinking is as legitimate and as important as mine), you cannot tell the Italians that you are doing the reform of the land register, but you do not increase taxes. Maybe they won't increase tomorrow, but if you do the reform of the land register - even a fifth grader understands it - sooner or later (unfortunately more before, then) taxes will be increased further. [[Applause]] In this way we will go to penalize even more those Italian citizens and pensioners who, perhaps with the liquidation of thirty or forty years of work, bought the garage, the apartment for the son or the sea. We will go to penalize even more those Italian savers who have tried with all their strength to save and, instead of being rewarded, are discouraged with more taxes. This is not how we solve the problems, but at a time when the state's coffers are already in difficulty and even more so are those of the citizens because of the energy crisis that is hitting them in a brutal way. Beyond words, the various decrees bills and supports have not given answers to today. Mr President, allow me a few more seconds to remind you of another serious element. I believe I am not the only one in this House to receive daily cries of grief from poor people who would like to pay their debts to the State. I am referring to the breakdown-b and balance accounts and excavations. These citizens would like to pay, but last year, in December, they were asked to pay for what had been suspended for a year and a half because of the lockdown. Now they are asking - and I am asking you, Minister - to reopen the terms immediately because we must ensure that honest Italians can pay what they owe and want to pay, which is also in the interest of the Erario and the Italian State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u39	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is being considered as one of the most awaited and certainly most impactful measures for the entire national economic system. We are talking about a market that only in the first quarter of 2021 generated a volume of about 70 billion euros, considering all types. The draft law delegation in the field of public contracts has been developed in order to ensure a reorder and an overall revision of the Code of Procurement, against which over the years numerous changes have been introduced, including through emergency measures, which have profoundly modified the original layout of the Code. As is well known, the legislation of public contracts has undergone over the years numerous corrective, complementary, amending, derogation measures that, although sometimes necessary, in many cases have not helped the sector; interventions that have ended up making the entire regulatory system messy, too complicated for all public and private operators. We all know how important the principle of trust in our system is, as we know, that in this area which intervenes in key and strategic areas, representing a flywheel of great impact for the entire national economy, legal certainty is an indispensable principle. Today, in the light of the resources allocated to Italy by the PNRR, the field of procurement becomes even more important and we are called to approve a discipline as clear as possible, especially of easy application for all operators, if we really believe in the recovery of our economy. We are facing a very tight timetable and this reform is, among other things, one of the commitments previously made by the Government for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In the same plan, in fact, a total reform of the legislative framework in the field of public contracts is previewed and, according to what previewed, must be reached objectives in very strict times: at the end of next year the normative and implementing framework must go to port definitely, we cannot afford delays or hesitations and for this I hope a passage to the House that, while respectful of the confrontation between the various political forces, remains within limits of time not long. I want to say this also because it is not excluded that a part of the economic growth planned for our country thanks to the resources set in motion by the recovery plan is frustrated by the harmful effects of the war in Ukraine. The draft law delegates is a legislative action aimed at adapting the rules on public contracts to that of European law and to the principles expressed over the years by the case law in this field, the overall objective of which is to rationalise, reorganize and simplify the current rules. The main pillars of the government bill highlighted in the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation are summarized in the prohibition of gold plating which, in line with the European directives, prevents the inclusion in the national legislation of higher levels of regulation than the minimum required, and in the qualification of the contracting stations. In fact, the bill delegates clearly states that one of the objectives is to achieve a numerical reduction, to favour a amalgamation of the existing ones, to promote incentives aimed at the use of the single purchasing power stations and to increase the qualification of the staff. In this direction we have an amendment which calls for the rationalization of contracting stations, with regard to both those in the ordinary and those in the special sectors. The measure then intervenes in the discipline of the contracts under threshold, on which it is important to guarantee a clear and unambiguous definition: in the contracts the discipline of the sub threshold has been changed several times and this, as I said, does not help the operators of the sector and the public administrations who, on the contrary, need clear and lasting rules. It is also part of the legislation on investments in green and digital technologies. In this area it will be important to proceed with a real strategic design, aimed at simplifying procedures, in order to achieve, in line with the two transitions envisaged, green and digital investments. Senator Margiotta's amendment, adopted in the Commission, aims to extend and strengthen the sustainability of public investment by incorporating the principle of reporting on energy-environmental objectives. It is therefore intended to guarantee not only the upstream phase of the definition of the criteria, but also the downstream phase of the reporting of the results achieved in terms of environmental and energy sustainability. In terms of computerization of the procedures to reduce the time relative to the procedures of contest, of conclusion of the contracts and of execution of the intense activities, thanks to a modification of the bill, is established, also in order to avoid ulterior burdens to the economic operators, the prohibition of debit to the economic operators of any type of cost, also indirect, connected to the management of electronic platforms. The draft law also extends to other areas, on which, for reasons of time, I will not dwell. However, I should like to pay some attention to the work done in the Commission and I should like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs, Mrs Pergreffi and Mr Cioffi, as well as to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, starting with the leader Margiotta, and to all the political forces in the Commission. The work in the Commission has been very intense and challenging, the examination times have been extended because of the need to find the widest convergence, especially on the most delicate steps of the measure, as well as the complexity of the matter, which inevitably requires longer scope for reflection. However, also from the comparison with the Government (and I would like to address to Deputy Minister Bellanova a sincere and not formful thanks, because he has worked in a valuable way with the parliamentary forces), we can say that the text arrived in this House is improved in several points and I would like to recall some of it. These include, of course, the amendments aimed at laying down the principle that measures to protect work, safety and the fight against illegal work, legality and transparency should be mandatory. The protection of work and the safety of the workplace is an issue that requires us all to pay close attention, not only to accidents or deaths at work. Today, in light of the numerous building bonuses, which as a whole are working well, the implementation of this principle must be stringent and very rigorous. We cannot forget, a month and a half away, the admonition of President Mattarella on the day of his oath, when he urged us to eliminate the deaths that wound society and the conscience of each of us. Because the safety of work, of every worker, is about the value that we attribute to life. Of the same content, because it concerns the issue of safety and its costs, is the amendment in which it is expected that the costs of labour and safety will always be broken down by the amounts subject to reduction. In the light of the phenomenon that we are witnessing, as regards the significant increase in prices in the public works sector, the amendment we have proposed and approved, with a view to providing for a compulsory regime of price review when conditions of objective exceptionality and unpredictableness occur at the time of the formation of the supply, takes a very topical point and, also for the future, represents a very important garrison in cases where substantial increases in raw materials occur. There is also the principle that the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer should be mandatory, and therefore the prohibition of the maximum reduction, which has been included - I think rightly - in public contracts relating to social services and hospital catering, in school care and in labour intensive services, where it is clear that this criterion is the one that offers the best guarantees regarding the success of custody, especially in sensitive sectors. To conclude, therefore, with the approval of this measure we are going to improve some fundamental points of this matter: from the simplification of rules and procedures, to respect for the environment, to the stop to the maximum reductions in some sectors, acting on the costs of the job and the safety and paying attention to the social and the obligation to the review of the prices by the contracting stations. This is a central text for the implementation of the PNRR and for the restart of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u41	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure, the delegation to the Government in the field of public contracts, has been successful in the 8th Commission. It is enough to think that it consists of a single article, on which a few hundred amendments have been tabled. Thanks to the contribution of all the political components, the text has been fired quickly, but with decidedly targeted changes, improving it and maintaining the aims of the measure, i.e. simplifying, rationalising, reordering the discipline and, on everything, avoiding the initiation of infringement procedures. The principles and guiding criteria, which the measure identifies and to which the Government will have to adhere in the exercise of the delegation, are: the simplification of the discipline, which will thus apply to all public contracts that see works, services and supplies below the thresholds of European importance. The progress made towards achieving the objectives of the 2030 Agenda is very important, which leads us even more towards investment in innovation, research and digital green technology: therefore, faster and faster towards the future. The rationalization, making clear all those cumbersome distortions that first flooded the procedures, and the advance of the practices will nevertheless bring advantages, which will be achieved with the reduction and certainty of the times relative to the procedures of contest, to the conclusion of the contracts and to the execution of the contracts. The obligation for contracting stations to include invitations to tender and specific social clauses in calls for tender can only be a choice of common sense; they will be essential for the promotion and employment stability of employees, to ensure the application of national and territorial sectoral collective agreements, to promote equal generational, gender and occupational inclusion opportunities for people with disabilities. The primary objective was to improve, sometimes eradicate, the procurement code adopted in the last parliamentary term, which was perhaps too faithful to the three Community directives to which it referred and not adapted to the peculiarities of Italy. In fact, it has sometimes disoriented us, given the habits and times of legislative reaction of our country, and it was the same competition authority that led us to give this change of pace. The rules of the Code of Public Contracts have been stigmatized over the years for complexity, aggravated by the numerous and all too often inconclusive referrals to future implementing measures. First the Anac guidelines and then it was the turn of the well-known implementing regulation introduced by the so-called unblocking yards. These measures have deprived the operators of the delivery of a certain and coordinated discipline and transformed the management of the current code into a long wait of regulatory decantation, which has lasted too long, not giving space to that speed and to that certainty of the bureaucracy that help to activate the economic machine of the Country or the difficulties encountered by contracting stations and economic operators with the application of the legislation in force until today, before the measure that we are discussing. In thanking the President of the Commission, the rapporteurs, the Government and colleagues of all political forces, I note that it was indeed a teamwork, an extraordinary example of a Parliament that, first and foremost, looks at the public. I would like to stress the importance of giving the right space to each of us, allowing each of us to make our own contribution. They say there are no perfect laws, but we give the government a good job. That was what Italian companies expected for a new journey. In detail, with the approval of our amendments we have pressed for the mandatory price review, the adoption of an implementing regulation in relation to the different types of public contracts, the rationalization and simplification of the causes of exclusion, in order to make the rules of participation clear and certain, identifying the cases that constitute the professional wrongdoing; still, the simplification of the procedures of payment by the contracting stations of the contractual consideration, also reducing the administrative burden on the companies. We have set the deadline for implementing the implementing decrees, but above all we have paid attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. It's been difficult times for this country's economy. The well-being of citizens goes through job creation. Well, for a really good recovery, the simplification of the purchase procedures was necessary, which among other things constitutes an objective of the PNRR in order to an efficient realization of the infrastructures for the revival of the construction activity, both essential aspects for the recovery following the spread of the contagion from Covid-19. Unfortunately, the economic recovery is being undermined even more today by the economic situation aggravated by the Ukraine crisis and the resulting high energy of raw materials. As a Commission and as a Parliament, we have worked quickly and with good sense not to waste this favourable moment which sees the historical impact on GDP of public purchases of around 11%, as also reported by the Competition and Market Authority, and to consolidate and increase the significant spending and investment prospects allowed by the PNRR. Today, in order to ensure that these expectations are met, Parliament gives the Commission an excellent instrument. We, as a component, welcome this measure and are sure that it will be adopted at a certain and rapid time - of course what Parliament has given - and we are also aware that it will be a qualifying point of reform for a sector that has high expectations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting from a premise that is out of the question. I learn from acquaintances that diesel at the pump today has reached 2.4 euros; I learn that steel and iron are not delivered at any price and at any condition. I think Putin doesn't have the atomic bomb, but we have it under our seats, under our chairs. In a few days we will be talking about something else, with real inflation that is not controllable, with failures, unemployment and problems that are difficult to deal with. I say this out of knowledge but in a spirit of truth and service. Let us come to the subject today. This debate will remain in parliamentary proceedings and I hope that the Government will listen and perhaps incorporate some notes worthy of being translated into specific legislation in the legislative decree. On these issues there is always the need to adapt to European legislation, which obeys certain principles - we talked about it in the Commission these days - such as competition, competitiveness and consumer protection. Italy should suggest that instead of "consumer" we could write "citizen"; but what are competition and competitiveness? Can it be useful, can it work on quality, respect for time, or is it a sin to gain? It's something that's always bugging my brain. I believe that we must obey the rules of concreteness and reality. Now, we give a delegation to the government to write this legislative decree, which will necessarily be made of concrete rules. I do not know whether the delegation is too general, too broad or whether it is exhaustive. I have read some interesting things, but I agree with what my colleagues from all sides have said. We want to get the Council of State or the Commission to write and ask for help without consideration, but it seems to me that, above all, the Council of State is the controller, not the regulator. I would like to make a few comments on the rules, largely transposed but still improved, on the basis of experience. With regard to the updating of prices, in the decrees on which trust was placed - but there was no other way - 130 million have already been allocated with a first decree for 2021; 100 million in the budget law (paragraphs 398 and 399); 150 million in Decree-Law No 17. These are important figures, but compared to rising prices on a few dozen billion potential procurements in 2022, we calculate that they only take the rules when the increases are above 8%. Therefore, all the public prices - I had tried to table an amendment, just to raise the problem, but I understand well how it goes with the amendments - which by their nature are too slow, in this marasma, could be suspended for six months, a year or two years and replaced by market surveys on paper. It was time, then, to define clearly the norm on the division into lots in order to favor small and medium-sized enterprises, because seven to eight years ago it was absolutely forbidden because it was said to be surreptitious. As regards the type of case for the criterion of maximum reduction, the latter is dangerous because it may attract the interest of companies established for this purpose, which then once won the contract eclipse or begin with the exceptions. The typing must therefore be limited to absolutely minor cases, otherwise it is not the right method. The flexible procedures, which have been mentioned and transposed, are good because they allow contracting stations to solve small problems, the clarifications that, as already happens, very quickly in the competitive dialogue and in the innovation partnership. I also think that the current limits under threshold and above threshold, which are in derogation Covid, are to be transformed into definitive, because the limits up to 40,000 for the works entrusted with office, from 150,000 to one million with five companies (speak of the works) and up to 139,000 for services and supplies allow to operate quite well. On the reduction of the contracting stations are only partially agreed, because reducing them to one or a few only at provincial level creates a mad overload of work, while there are contracting stations - for example conventions between municipalities or cities not provincial capital - that are the leader for the neighboring municipalities and I think it is an already good situation in which I think there are good professionalism. I also believe, Mr. Vice Minister, that reducing the time of procedures is already possible now, with the current legislation: it is enough that politics at all levels - from the mayor to the President of the Province, the Region, the city councilors to the ministries - is breathtakingly on its neck, but with common sense and with education, to structures so that practices are not left in drawers and the times of conferences of services that are already good are respected. As for the reduction of the levels of design and validation, one could write a case study so in some cases the definitive and the executive can be a single step. The national register of committees has already passed, it was not practicable. I also think it is already in the Government's interest to raise the amount of work on which the Higher Council of Public Works gives a mandatory opinion, as called for by the Council itself. As for the payment of advances, when public works are carried out on the basis of contributions from the State or from the Regions to lower institutions, there is a cash problem, because we have to pay the advance - on which I would have some reservations - but we have to pay the balances of progress works and sometimes the payments delay and we cannot respect the rules of payments to thirty or sixty days. The method of resolving disputes, as has been said, must be as out-of-court as possible and must be preventive, in order to avoid lengthening. I also believe, Mr Vice-Minister, that subcontracting must become free because it is a European standard, clearly with requirements on the part of subcontractors. Finally, I would like to say a word about concessions. I agree with the ban on extension, as has been written, although recently some extension has been granted, even for very large figures. You also have to race. The monitoring of investments and their quantification must be rationalised for the purpose of granting repayment by the successor, and this is a sensitive subject that should be foreseen first so that the calculation of investments is made according to the prices in force or according to established criteria. The sanctions, in case of error or failure to comply with contractual expectations and obligations, are proportionate to the non-compliance and imposed quickly, with provisional enforceability of the revocations, otherwise after we come out of it, mechanisms of interpretation are triggered, which are always to the detriment of the State. I read that concessions do not include state property, therefore bathing, but let's talk about it in the appropriate locations; let's talk about it in open field as soon as possible. Six months for the adoption of legislative decrees are few on the one hand, but with what is happening these days are an eternity. We hope that they will be kept to a minimum. I trust in the best part of public administration - there is - and in these suggestions in the light of this debate. [[Applause.]] 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u45	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u46	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I feel obliged to express in this House my closeness to the Ukrainian people and hope that they will smile again free in a free nation. [[Applause]] Colleagues, it certainly must not be the infringement procedure by the European Commission that requires us to review the rules on public contracts, but the common sense of politics and, above all, respect for the work of Italian companies. The league has the heart of the work and all the administrative machinery linked to them, and the proof is the amendments tabled and also approved, which promote a change of pace with a reorganization of the sector more timely and organic, starting first of all from the legislation. The Commission's text lays the foundations for a new law on more streamlined and even more balanced public contracts. The League has enriched the law with a series of amendments that have as principle the respect of the sacrifice and the risk of the enterprise. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment for the protection of Made in Italy in supplies, of the amendment for the repentance of costs in case of controlled increases (see today the increase of raw materials and the cost of energy). I am still thinking of the amendment which also gives small businesses the opportunity to participate in large contracts because they are divided into small lots. The League thus grows small territorial enterprises and speeds up the work of the big ones. The amendments of the League provide for the simplification of the rules that constitute the professional wrongdoing and the identification of the real causes that determine the exclusion from the notices, therefore clear and concrete answers of support. This is not only due to discipline in line with the directives that have been required for some time or to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, but above all to ensure that activities can be organised for material and administrative investments. The proposed amendments aim to encourage good and rapid implementation of the work, including by means of sanctioning or rewarding mechanisms. In fact, rules are needed to avoid unfinished works, such as 410 works by 2020 with a value of more than 2.5 billion. In this regard, the League's agenda for the digitisation of the Italian construction and public administrations sector is well worthwhile, also in the interests of rapid monitoring and monitoring. The League presented and structured an amendment in the delegation to the Government to limit the use of the draw, because we believe it is right to reward professionalism. With Amendment 1,155 we wanted insurance policies to be provided for by the contracting authority. With the agenda (already Amendment 1.81) we recognize the decisive role of the professionals involved in the participation in races. With amendment 1.247 (text 2) we intervene in the objective and social value of the collective catering service. It has the value of nourishing and educating children, the elderly and the sick and rewarding the quality of the offer with criteria that enhance the food supply policies and recommend criteria that reward the planning of communication and information, with a prevention of waste and a sustainability of the meals, also verify the socio-economic reliability and the certifications and also determine the exclusion from the contracts of the collective catering of an improvised catering. We have structured the amendment that enhances the professional experience gained over the years by technical directors, once again giving priority to meritocracy and professionalism. The work of the and in the Commission, to which thanks go for the fruitful and constructive commitment, beginning with the offices, colleagues, rapporteurs, in particular Senator Pergreffi, and the Government, with the constant and constructive presence of the Senator Deputy Minister Bellanova, I hope he will find effective delegation to the Government because the commitment has structured a series of amendments that will create synthesis for good rules of public contracts. As well as for this law delegation, the League is to the Government for the good of companies and its professionals. If we were not in the government, we would only have hypothesized, without bringing to compliment ideas and requests able to give answers, certainties and programming. For the League it is also time to be criticized, but not to criticize; it is time to do, but not to let it be done. For the sake of the Italians, we always put our faces on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation we are giving today to the Government represents the overcoming of a rock on which procurement stations and operations in the sector have repeatedly struck, but not because of the serious economic and health emergency in which our country has also been sailing. A number of amendments to the Procurement Code have only been necessary in this parliamentary term. I remember only a few of them: the decree cures Italy, the decree relaunches, the decree simplifications of 2020 and that of 2021. All of them were necessary, but not sufficient. For example, there is still a strong need to adapt legislation to European law, both in order to bring about the resolution of infringement procedures already in place and in order to avoid the introduction of new ones. This above all because always on the part of the economic operators there is the demand to rationalize, reorganize and simplify a discipline that unfortunately from the entry into force of the legislative decree 18 April 2016, n. 50, bearing the reform of the public contracts, has seen rise and never resolve the problems applicative connected to its own entry into force, that they represent the rock on which the operators of the field return and return to break. An unclear and unorganic legal framework, subject to perennial punctual changes that with the emergency from Covid-19 have intensified and with which it has derogated in order to simplify the approach to the management of the pandemic phase. In the Commission, a text has arrived from which the primary aim has been immediately overcome: to return to the code of conduct a simple and clear language, limiting as far as possible the referral to secondary rules, providing for a comprehensive reform of the legislative framework on public contracts and respecting the commitment recently made by the Government with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which provides for the entry into force of the delegation for the revision of the Code of Public Contracts by June 2022. [[Applause]] Today, 9 March 2022, I can say that despite the quota of time, the debate has been very high between Parliament and the Government. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission for the important moments of sharing and illustrating their ideas, sometimes even divergent, on which we have managed to find a synthesis. I would also like to thank the Government which, with its openness on various fronts, has enabled Parliament to make a significant contribution to the improvement of the text, which sets out a framework within which to move towards reforming the subject of the Code of Public Contracts. [[Applause]] A good starting point, for example, was already indicated in Article 1 (c) on the simplification of procedures for the implementation of interventions in green, digital, innovation and research technologies. Referring explicitly to the need to pursue the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Parliament's action was able to introduce itself by emphasising the mandatory compliance with minimum environmental criteria. In fact, if the delegation already showed the importance of the use and the leverage of these criteria, the insertion of the forecast of the obligation suggests how this instrument has the possibility to change our country. In addition, we have introduced the reporting of the energy-environmental objectives, that system that allows us to measure the actual impact necessary to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, exactly as the resolution of 2015 of the United Nations General Assembly. This is a useful tool for forecasting measures to ensure compliance... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u49	Colleagues, we are concluding the general debate so that we can then proceed to the vote. I appeal to all those who lovingly keep chatting in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u50	Please, Senator Di Girolamo. DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. The reporting of energy-environmental objectives is a very useful tool for the provision of measures to ensure compliance with the criteria of energy and environmental responsibility in the award of public contracts and concession contracts. Among the many issues, one of the most strongly involved by all the parliamentary groups was certainly the one that protects, preserves and promotes the participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. It is necessary here to start from a fact: more than 95% of Italian companies have a number of employees between nine and the single unit. In all honesty, we can therefore say that almost all of the market is made up of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The delegation text did not include any mention of this type of company, which in fact represents the productive backbone of our country. [[Applause]] The debate in the Commission has all consistently agreed on the establishment of a principle of delegation which would define its protection, in order to guarantee them the effective possibility of participating in the tenders, providing for an appropriate division of the lots on the qualitative and quantitative basis and preventing their artificial aggregation. Mr President, in this way we are really going to protect the Italian market and the companies that represent it most. Certain timing: this is the long-standing issue addressed in the text, but definitely improved thanks to the approval of an amendment proposed by the Movimento 5 Stars, which aims to introduce in the proxy criterion the reference to the full implementation of the national database of public contracts and the use of the virtual file of the economic operator, raising them to key elements of the process of simplification of tendering procedures. The electronic file is an instrument that - to date - is not yet used to the full of its potential, while the Movimento 5 Stars strongly believes that this timely amendment in detail can really contribute to the achievement of this objective. The delegation also provides for a criterion to specify the procedures for the project approval phase, including through a possible reduction in design levels and the rationalisation of the work and composition of the Higher Council of Public Works. Well, it must be said that the legislation that intervenes in the process of approval, reliance and implementation of public works is particularly articulated and on many occasions it contemplates a plurality of sources, such as environmental code and code of cultural goods and landscape. This interlocking of norms involves a complex work of linking very articulated provisions. In this sense, all the parliamentary groups were sensitive and, although a clear comparison with the Government showed that this was not exactly the right measure to intervene for coordination between these texts, all the political forces of the parliamentary arc, including opposition, joined in the formulation of an agenda, promoted by Movimento 5 Stars and accepted by the Government, which invites, when adopting legislative decrees, to ensure coordination between the environmental code, the code of cultural goods and landscape, the code of public contracts and any other disciplines concerned. [[Applause]] As I come to the conclusion, I believe that the work done in the Commission and that we are now preparing to vote in this House has been done in a choral and engaging manner. In thanking, above all, both rapporteurs for their valuable and patient mediation work, I sincerely hope that this method can also be adopted for the continuation of the work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u51	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u52	I call the rapporteur, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u53	Mr President, I rise because the debate has highlighted a number of passages. For example, both Senator Astorre and Senator Di Girolamo spoke of the reporting of environmental objectives, and this is an interesting aim that the Commission had proposed, as we had already said, in compliance with the constitutional change, which is one of the results achieved in a choral way by all parliamentary forces. Senator Astorre talked about the reduction of contracting stations: this is also a great theme. We know that 37,000 contracting stations are registered at the Unique Contracting Stations Register (AUSA), an incredible number, so the reduction is an absolutely heartfelt and well-founded theme. Obviously in the reduction some of the political forces have proposed the criterion of identifying homogeneous areas, therefore to follow the same procedure that reminds us of Law No. 36 of 1994, so-called Galli law, in which we talked about homogeneous territorial areas. It was an important issue, so it was put on an agenda. However, the reduction of contracting stations is absolutely necessary and I hope that the Government will work closely with it, obviously in agreement with the State-Regions Conference, to find a balance. Senator Berutti spoke of the continuous amendment of the norms of legislative decree no. 50 of 2016. It is true that it has been subject to continuous modifications and this certainly produces uncertainty in the operators. The Government, in the implementation of the delegation, will have to be particularly careful not to intervene with continuous modifications that determine the legal uncertainty that produces a real problem in the implementation of the intense activities. Among the many, in Legislative Decree no. 50 of 2016 was chosen the way of the guidelines of the National Anti-Corruption Authority (ANAC), but let me say that fortunately, even if the parliamentary groups have proposed to divide between works, services and supplies, going back in the beehive of the regulation, we have delegated the government to write them in a coherent way for the implementation and for the effective action that we owe to all the operators. Finally, many representatives of all political forces referred to the Council of State (Senator Paroli, Senator Wolf, Senator Corti, Senator Vono, Senator De Bertoldi, Senator Perosino and Senator Di Girolamo). Much of the political forces have spoken about this issue. Our aim was - if you will allow me - to save the government, which means strengthening it by eliminating that passage on the Council of State, because, as has been said by all the groups, it weakens it. Our aim was to ensure that the Government fully exercised its strength and to do so the position expressed by most of the Groups (not to say by everyone) was that of the elimination of that passage, which however states: In implementing the delegation referred to in this Article, the Government intends to exercise its powers. Our wish, therefore, is that which we have heard from the debate, that is, that which is not exercised in that capacity. If I wanted to make a joke, we could jokingly say that the government of the best chose someone better than them to get better. This remains a joke, but the problem, sometimes, is that some legal components and some legal officials feel, like x-men, able to save the world. On the other hand, we think that politics should be at the centre, as we always say in these parliamentary classrooms. We must ensure that the separation of functions is alive, strong and effective, because, if the Council of State writes the legislative decree and someone makes use of the Council of State, I imagine it is difficult for the Council of State itself to accept it, but that is the procedure. However, since it is written in the delegation where it intends to avail itself, our hope is that the Government will not avail itself of it; This is in keeping with all that has been said by the parliamentary forces, on which there is great convergence. The work however was useful, not perfect, as always happens in the works, but very effective. We hope that the implementation of the delegation will be well done and written by people who know what a construction site is and by someone who has done in his life the sole head of the procedure (RUP), that is, the one who has to manage the competition; in short, that it is written with the great participation of the real actors of the public works (professionals, ORP and enterprises) and a little less, perhaps, from the lawyers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u54	The rapporteur, Mrs Pergreffi, did not intend to speak in her reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u55	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u56	Mr President, I rise briefly to thank the rapporteurs, the majority and opposition groups, the Commission's offices and those of this House, not only for their cooperation, but above all for their professionalism, commitment and, in some passages, I would also say the passion they have given us to approve an important and demanding text in the Commission. We all know that there is an improved and enriched draft delegation law in this House, which is done with concreteness and, I would say, with sharpness. A text arrives in the House that we will send to the House, where I think we will continue to work with this approach, knowing that this delegation has a key word: simplification; a word that has been mentioned many times over the years, but also many times absolutely ignored. The simplification on which we are working, contained in the text to be transmitted to the House, which we will all - I believe - approve shortly, is combined with environmental, social and economic sustainability. These are three types of sustainability that need to be together, because we know that this is the only way to guarantee business and work, in procurement and subcontracting, in large and small companies. The delegation that we assign to the Government today - I can guarantee it - will be presided over by the Government: there is no transfer of sovereignty, except a clarification that, instead of using its opinion, you can call the Council of State to play its own role, according to the existing laws. With this delegation we strengthen that framework of fundamental reforms not only for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but also to oversee and support the necessary economic recovery that our country needs after the pandemic. Today we are making a contribution, through the work we have all done together, to the intergenerational and gender pact that I am sure of in this House we all feel the pressing responsibility. And this is not about the government of the best, but about the duty that the ruling classes must fulfil with the new generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u57	Senator Cioffi, I know that the royal decree you referred to in two years' time is a century old. It relives because we find it here: it is one of those that I forgot to burn, but that I believe can be the subject of an evaluation. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendment, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u58	Mr President, in agreement with the groups in the Commission, which I thank, we have decided to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda. It is a particularly sensitive issue, concerning Italian companies suffering from debts not honoured by the public administration. Hoping that this further contribution of ours to the Commission's work will be appreciated, we are prepared to turn Amendment 1,200 into an agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u59	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u60	Mr President, we are in favour of changing the agenda. We thank, indeed, Senator Ruspandini for his willingness, because it is a topic that concerns everyone. We are available for the transformation on the agenda, with the classic words: "Recommends the Government to assess the appropriateness of """.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u61	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u64	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I would ask you to sign the agenda. Furthermore, in view of the issue, in order to strengthen the position expressed, I would ask whether it is possible for the House to vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u67	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I would ask you to sign the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u68	The Presidency, in accepting the requests for subscription submitted, recalls that, starting from the second, they must be presented directly to the Offices. I would like to ask Senator Ruspandini if he accepts Senator Romeo's request and insists on voting on the agenda. Ruspandini (FdI). Yes, Mr President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u71	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the measure we are voting on today is an important step in the long run for the simplification of the system. Now the ball passes to the government, called to put to the ground a reform essential for the use of European funds, restoring autonomy and security to public officials and businesses. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Steger, I suggest you wait, waiting for colleagues to release the hemicycle quickly. Please, Senator Steger, resume your speech. STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Thank you, Mr President. It is a reform which, in doing so, must put the whole business system at the centre, including those small and medium-sized enterprises which could not understand the public procurement sector as a strategic asset of their business activity. However, these companies, which are the economic backbone of the country, can bring added value, not only in terms of skills and professionalism, but also in terms of knowledge of the territories where the works are carried out. This proximity, which was once called subsidiarity, was one of the major issues at the heart of the debate in the Commission. We are pleased that amendments have been made to the text which meet this need. This attention has gone from rules such as the ban on the drawing of lots against artificial aggregation and the rules on the simplification of payment procedures. Positive in this regard are also the novelties related to the review of prices for facts of an objective and not preventable nature, such as the introduction of some automatisms in the evaluations and the training and the interventions of support for the contracting stations, that, as we know, all too often lack of skills and tools to interpret their function correctly. The second aspect on which the delegation law entrusts a very precise task is in the change of step so that from mere needs of operation of the market we move to a perspective of public policies focused on innovation, social inclusion and the environment. There are many examples: from the rules protecting subcontracting workers to social constraints on stability and employment inclusion, to compliance with the criteria of environmental energy responsibility, to the simplification of procedures for the realisation of investments in green and digital technologies, innovation and research. In this respect, the commitment to the regulatory simplification of public debate is also very important, a strategic tool to help administrations focus on strengths and weaknesses, risks and opportunities for public works with a high impact on territories. It is necessary to encourage its use by lowering the economic amount of the work for which 50 million euros are currently required; above all, the works that have appealed to it must be lifted from any dispute, following the French system in this respect. This is because - and here I come to the most important point - the great theme is to avoid delays in the realization of the works, which is more necessary than ever compared to those financed by the PNRR, which in 2026 will have to be completed. In this respect, the delegation law establishes other points worthy of note, such as competitive dialogue, partnership and competitive procedures with negotiation. It will also be important to streamline the verification procedures, which all too often slow down projects, for example by introducing even more the principle of silence-acceptance in the relationship with the public administration. Mr President, I think that a good job has been done and I would like to thank the two rapporteurs in the Commission and the representative of the Government at this point in the first place. The Commission, which has undertaken a close dialectical relationship with the Government, has managed to bring about a number of improvements, once again demonstrating the importance of parliamentary work in examining such delicate and complex measures. Public procurement legislation also deserves harmonisation with respect to European indications and changes that have taken place in recent years, which have made the whole regulatory plan uncertain and confusing. Harmonisation must be based on the principle of simplification, i.e. the overall reduction of the regulatory burden. This reform is crucial not only for the PNRR, but for the overall process of modernisation of the country and the use of public resources for growth and development, for the centrality of the entrepreneurial fabric. The government acts quickly, I hope without any additional function of other bodies, because it would not be a precedent to be particularly proud of. It is with this hope that I will announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u74	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, today we are adopting a crucial measure for at least two reasons. Firstly, this action has become necessary in order to bring internal legislation into line with European law and thus avoid infringement procedures. Be careful: it is an adjustment that is not merely an abstract issue, but has important practical consequences. In fact, many problems have arisen as a result of the approval of the 2016 Procurement Code and the related supplementary and corrective provisions of the various legislative measures that over time, even if inspired by the need to ensure the consistency of national law with that of the Community, have partly derogated - in some cases, even permanently - from the rules contained in the Public Contracts Code. The gradual loss of homogeneity of the initial intervention of 2016 has only aggravated itself with the epidemiological emergency and the subsequent regulatory interventions, often of urgency, that have followed during the last two years. Therefore, the purpose of the delegation law that we are preparing to vote on has this overall ratio: to return to the coding provisions simplicity and clarity of language, reducing and rationalising the rules on the point. The second reason for the adoption of this reform is fully part of the commitments recently made by the Government with the PNRR and which require swift action and quotas over time. To sum up, President, there are three guidelines followed by the law delegation in the field of public contracts: meanwhile, simpler and clearer rules to ensure efficiency and timeliness in the custody, management and execution of contracts and concessions; secondly, certain times for the tendering procedures for the conclusion of contracts and the realization of contracts, including public works, which will have to be increasingly oriented to innovation and sustainability; finally, strengthening the qualification and specialization of staff operating in contracting stations. These are ambitious goals, but essential for the efficient implementation of the infrastructure and the relaunch of the entrepreneurial activity of our country, and indispensable, if we want to concretely guarantee the full recovery of the Italian economy after the pandemic from Covid-19. In the Commission we have tried to concentrate our work on a few, but targeted changes. I would like to point out that these are interventions which have found a synergy shared between the various forces of majority, bearing witness to the fact that parliamentary work can and must be an improvement. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Cioffi and Senator Pergreffi, as well as Deputy Minister Bellanova and Minister D'Incà for their openness to the dialogue demonstrated throughout the course of the work, but also for the additions and modifications granted. Among the most important changes, I would like to mention the attention shown to the theme of environmental sustainability. We have approved measures to ensure compliance with the criteria of energy and environmental responsibility in the award of public contracts and concession contracts, through the definition of minimum environmental criteria which must be met and differentiated by type of contract. On the issue of social sustainability, however, we have put in place measures to promote the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in procurement procedures. I would remind you, in particular, of the possibility of dividing contracts into lots and the prohibition of artificial amalgamation. Of great importance, always thanks to the amending work, is the norm that imposes on the contracting stations the obligation to insert in the notices of invitation to tender a compulsory regime of revision of the prices to the occurrence of particular conditions of objective nature and not predictable at the time of the formulation of the offer. This is a significant and indispensable change. The pandemic has shown us how the economic and social framework of one country can change rapidly at any moment. It means paying attention to the contractual balance, especially in a crucial area such as public contracts. Work in the Commission has also gone in another direction, that of attention to work and the protection of workers. We have put in place measures which exclude the possibility of reducing the cost of labour and safety in the supply chain, providing for the application of the same economic and regulatory safeguards for all workers employed in the performance of the contract, whether they are subcontracted or employees of the contractor. In the same vein there is also the measure that provides - through the inclusion in the calls for tenders - specific clauses aimed at guaranteeing employment stability and promoting through mechanisms and instruments of reward generational, gender and occupational inclusion equal opportunities. Also important is the amendment to the delegation law which requires, in the procurement of social services and catering hospitality, assistance and school, as the award criterion, only that of the most economically advantageous offer and that that which simplifies the procedures of payment by the contracting stations, reducing the administrative burden on the enterprises. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a reference to those who will be involved in the adoption of the legislative decrees. On the draft legislative decrees drawn up by the Government will be acquired the opinion of the Council of State and the parliamentary committees competent for the matter. If the latter's opinion is not favourable, the Government will be able to re-transmit the texts to the Chambers with its comments and reasons and the Parliamentary Commissions will be able to express their opinion within ten days. On the other hand, optionally, the competence of the Council of State on the drafting of the legislative article remains firm, also using judges of the TAR, external experts and lawyers of the State and the free forum. Yes, it is true, this is an old rule already provided for by the Royal Decree of 1924, but it certainly is still useful today, indeed, even more today, since it is a regulatory activity that requires highly qualified specialist skills, just like those of the judges of the Council of State. For all these reasons, I declare the vote convincedly in favour of Italy Viva-Party Socialist Italian to this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u77	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to vote on is a reform that Brothers of Italy has had in its hands for a long time. The need to revise the procurement rules had become improcrastinable and over the years the stratification of the discipline has generated interpretative chaos, as well as being a brake on the infrastructural development and, in essence, an obstacle to the full realization of competition between small and medium-sized enterprises. We had therefore welcomed the initiative of this delegation law, putting tangible hopes on it; a delegation which, moreover, responds and is part of the logic of simplification, as declined in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It would therefore have been a good opportunity to test our ability to synthesize and to put the needs of all those involved in public procurement into place. Brothers of Italy had interpreted it in this spirit in the Commission, considering it essential to welcome the suggestions of the public world, and I would like to thank for this the local authorities who, through professional associations, were able to make a great contribution to the hearing. At the same time, we wanted to give space - in our re-elaborations - to the equally fundamental experiential background of the private sector, the DAC, the academic world and the judiciary, because the different sensitivities at the various levels of public evidence should have made an essential contribution, precisely with a view to simplification. Well, the work done by the Brothers of Italy in the management of the amending activity to this bill went exactly in this direction: we analysed the contributions of all, drawing the necessary consequences and formulating the most appropriate reflections. However, the great expectations we had taken up were disappointed by an attitude of the majority and above all of the Government, which basically betrayed the very meaning of the delegation, leading to a missed opportunity. In fact, the first obvious criticality of this delegation, which runs the obligation to emphasize, is that it leaves very wide space to the activity of the delegated legislator and it is clear that the provision should have been formulated in order to direct more fully the Government, that today so enjoys substantially a delegation in white. With our amending work, we have tried to set limits to the delegated legislative power, both with regard to certain principles which, for example, we have tried to specify, and with regard to the modification of certain institutions. We have made the most complete identification of the needs for deburocratization, already included in the bill, trying to introduce benchmarks and, for example, explicitly inserting the reference to principles inspired by the emerging decrees of 2020 and 2021, which are producing good results in terms of simplification. This was followed by the practical declination of the principle, with a reference to the desirable involvement of the National Anti-Corruption Authority in the simplification process, so that it could become an active part of the public evidence process and that fairness, transparency and legality were guaranteed where a simultaneous easing of procedures appears necessary. We have tried to put in place provisions that really go in the direction of facilitating and participating in invitations to tender for small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, amendment 1,200, which was then turned into an agenda, would have ensured that companies with credit certificates with public administrations could not be excluded in the event of tax irregularities that were not definitively detected. These are common sense contributions, which go in the direction everyone expected. The latter evidence, which is a battle of civilization that would prevent the state from acting as a tyrant when demanding credits and being indulgent instead with itself at the time of paying, was rejected by this majority in fact. It is not a matter of little account, nor a technical quibble, because, when public administrations do not pay at the end, the first companies that suffer are those that constitute the nerve of the Italian economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises, that do not have sufficient financial availability and risk to have, because of the failures of the contracting stations, the tax investigations that then exclude them from the successive races, like a furious dog that bites the tail: in addition to the damage, also the mockery. In the field of public procurement, where small and medium-sized enterprises are affected, it is there that not only and not so much the major economic concentrations are rampant, but also the great organised crime. With this broad delegation, gentlemen, we do not understand the direction that the Government wants to take for the future to define the rules on procurement, which we can only deduce from the nature of the amendments we have tabled and which you have rejected. It is not the direction that we like, nor the one that serves the Italian enterprise and that the public administrations need in order to be facilitated the job. In conclusion, Brothers of Italy pressed for the revision of the discipline in an organic way, directing the delegated legislator and tightening it to defined principles, in order to give oxygen to the enterprises, agile instruments to the client and guarantee of transparency and correctness for the realization of constitutional principles of good performance and impartiality of the public administration. It does not seem to us, ladies and gentlemen, that this has happened and, although we trust that our intentions can be debated in the House and can find a hotel in the final drafting of the measure, today we will reluctantly vote against it: I say this because the climate I have breathed and we have lived with our colleagues in the Commission has been truly harmonious and I would like to thank them, starting with the rapporteurs. We have really worked together and I thank them for the certificates of esteem that we have also received here, which are punctually returned. However, I believe - and I say this on behalf of the whole Group of the Brothers of Italy - that a great opportunity is being missed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u80	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, we come to this House as a result of an important work done in the Commission, I must say in the wake of the best dynamics between Parliament and the Government, between majority and opposition (so that, as you have seen, only one amendment has been tabled, which has also been transformed into an agenda), and of a very wide convergence on a very different text, improved, as Vice-Minister Bellanova said, which of course I thank for the work we have done together, with respect to the initial delegation. This seems to me to be a good example of how to make the most of the important words that President Mattarella has said about the relationship between the Government and Parliament. I should like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, Mr Cioffi and Mr Pergreffi, for this good work. [[Applause]] , the Government, as I have already done, in the person of the Deputy Minister and - taking up one of his passages - the Offices of our Commission and the Legislative Office of the Ministry. I would add another premise, which is very close to my heart for the role we have played in the previous parliamentary term, in which we approved a reform of procurement, followed, in particular, by Minister Delrio, whom we voted and shared. Personally, on some aspects I was not entirely in agreement, but the dialectic that developed among those who believed that the law was perfect and unchangeable and those who thought it, instead, almost the origin of all the evils was wrong: it was a good law, which gave positive effects, but of course the changes that we have been in the following years have made it important and inevitable to put hand to a more comprehensive reform, which gave life again to a plan unitary and not fragmented. That's why we're working. The other myth to be debunked, as someone has said today (and you have to be precise about these things), is that this reform serves to start the works of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan: that is not at all the case. As far as the PNRR is concerned, a few months ago we approved an ad hoc simplification decree for that type of works, as well as for those of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC), which can therefore be contracted and to a large extent have already been started. This rule has to do with the PNRR for another reason, namely because the European Union has asked us for a series of structural and non-quota reforms, which we have committed ourselves to developing and approving in such a way that we are in line with the commitments: the reform of procurement, the reform of taxation and the reform of justice. Thanks to the work we have done, we will be able to meet the times. Already Mr Astorre, in a good speech, pointed out a number of PD amendments which have been transposed, adopted and improved the draft law. We played a great team game, starting obviously from President Malpezzi and colleague D'Arienzo. If I were to summarize with one expression the work we have done, I would say: simplification, efficiency and speed, but in the absolute respect of transparency, safety at work, workers' rights and environmental sustainability (an amendment by my colleague Mirabelli in this sense was absolutely valuable); in short, I would say the translation into practice of an authentically reformist approach or, at least, of what we in the PD believe to be reformism. A particularly significant amendment, the result of the concert between the Government and Parliament, is that on the subject of price review, which must always be present in notices, notices and invitations, in order to be used in particular conditions of an objective nature. Think about what is happening today with the increase in energy and materials and competitions: lately there has been a very important one in Rome that has been deserted, because companies find that those prices are not such as to allow participation in the races themselves. Of course it will not come into force today, but when the law and the implementing decrees have been finally passed, but it is an important signal that we give companies, saying that we are thinking about it and we will get there. Certainly, however, in the measures we are examining these days (the third decree-law supports, such as the one on bills) we should try to give an immediate response to the world of enterprises, which cannot wait for the translation into practice of the law delegation. For the PNRR to work, of course, the laws of simplification, money (those first of all) and reform and a strengthening of public administration are important, but the fourth leg is the world of businesses and the economy of this country, which cannot reach the dying goal, but must reach it in health. For this reason, we will also deal with it in the decrees-laws under discussion. We have worked on this, but we have never forgotten the other important issues for us: transparency and measures to protect workers and those relating to environmental sustainability. There can never be competitions to the maximum decrease, nor can there be reductions in labour costs and workers' safety. Competitions in the field of social services and catering, hospitality and school care and, in general, labour intensive services can never be awarded with the only price criterion. We cannot think that in hospital or school canteens, those who offer the lowest price will win, to the detriment of quality. I therefore believe that this is a very important stake, carried out through an amendment of ours. I could continue by quoting all the other amendments, not only those of the PD, but also of other colleagues. I would like to mention that proposed by Senator D'Arienzo concerning small and medium-sized enterprises, but there are also those presented and approved on the basis of pressure and encouragement from the other groups. In short, in my opinion we have done a very good job, which can be improved like everyone else; Deputy Minister Bellanova has just told us that the House will be able to work on it, because there will not be an armored text, and we will probably go back to Take care of it. In conclusion, Mr President, allow me to make a very personal remark. I have always dealt with this matter in my parliamentary life, first in the House and then in the Senate, as well as on the side of my private and professional life. It is a fluid matter, slippery, difficult to regiment and that, since we are on the subject of anniversaries, sometimes it reminds me of a beautiful song by Lucio Dalla, which at a certain point says that thought is like the ocean: you can't block it, you can't fence it. Even the subject of public works has many of those innovations that being able to compress it is complicated, I must say with great luck of the very good lawyers who deal with it during all the disputes. We did not have the courage and ambition to regiment it; instead, we thought we could enhance it, order and implement it to the maximum extent to the advantage of the country. We are pleased to be able to say that Parliament has done its part in this direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u81	Senator Margiotta, proposed by Lucio Dalla, in relation to the subject to me came to mind the song "The year that will come," instead of the one you mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u84	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we hope that the year to come will not bring us further reform of the procurement code, so we hope that this will be the right one. It is clear that the Commission's work on delegation - I remember, in fact, that the work is parliamentary, that is, it is the parliamentarians who give the delegation to the government - in directing and establishing principles, has been very important and effective. I would also like to join in thanking all the Members of the Commission, the rapporteurs and the Vice-Minister, because we are faced with the example of the fact that, if we can seriously reason on the issues, we are starting a method of cooperation from which we can all benefit, especially on a subject such as public procurement. Senator Margiotta knows that we have spoken on this subject several times, so much so that, when I hear about simplifications, I never really know if it is a question of ters, cc, etc. This time we hope to have put on the field - I am confident - an organic job. All the interventions, which have often been non-systematic but non-systematic, have produced a forest and a stratification of norms on which a number of disputes have been generated that not only made the fortunes of lawyers, but has certainly produced impossible delays in the realization of public works and also a lot of confusion for businesses, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, which very often have been in a situation of great difficulty in understanding the rules. The forecast for this reform is contained in the PNRR, which is an absolutely fundamental point for us, and the final approval of the measure was set exactly at 31 December 2021, with a precise mandate that are - precisely - organic rules, simplified and consistent with Community law, also to avoid other problems of infringement procedures. I think that the work done achieves this aim enough and it is even more important because it will be able to solve some of the application problems that have arisen because of the stratification of the rules in this area. I think that we can finally get a legal framework in the sector, which is currently absolutely unorganic and clear. Let us put it this way: legal certainty is absolutely fundamental in every field, but in this area I believe it is crucial and indispensable in order to be able to promote economic recovery as well. We can invent all the rules, contributions and works we want. But if we can't make sure how races are done and the procedures start, we really have a lot of difficulty. In this delegation, once again - and rightly so, because it is a crucial point - the reduction and qualification of contracting stations is given. I hope this is the right time, because this is absolutely crucial: we have dealt with it several times and it is even more important and crucial - we all know that, and the Vice-Minister knows that, precisely because of the functions she carries out - precisely for the implementation of the PNRR. We have a problem of qualification, in general, of public administration and also of design capacity, clarity of projects and indication. The draft delegation law lays down principles - in my view - which are absolutely fundamental, such as the absolute unmanditability of measures to protect work, safety and the fight against illegal work, and thus to protect legality and transparency. A healthy economic recovery - in my opinion - can only take place if the legal and transparency framework in which it is based is clear. Only in this way would the subjects who are out of the rope be involved, but who might have the opportunity to put their know-how into play. We have so many small and medium-sized enterprises that have great opportunities, but that have often been cut off because of the lack of transparency in the management of contracts. The other issues that have been - in my view rightly - included among the founding principles are those relating to competitiveness, non-discrimination, as well as, of course, economicity and impartiality. Another aspect that is very close to my heart is the fact that constraints will be introduced to ensure compliance with the so-called CAMs, i.e. the minimum environmental criteria, which are an element not of slowing down, but of strong qualification in the field of green innovation and also the ability to have contracts and works that meet the needs. There is a very clear indication of the reporting system for environmental energy objectives. Another element that I very much welcome is the need to promote employment stability, the application of the national labour contract and, above all, the guarantee of the same economic and regulatory safeguards also for subcontracting workers. This was another of the elements on which we have worked a lot and which is indeed an important guarantee for the contractor's employees. It's a rule against irregular work. Provision is made for the possibility and obligation, inter alia, for contracting stations to include in calls for tenders, notices and invitations all specific social clauses. Moreover, the use of the maximum decrease is absolutely excluded if not with very precise typings, with the exclusion of certain sectors. My colleague, Mr Margiotta, has done well to emphasise this aspect, because it concerns certain sectors such as social services, hospital catering, the care and school sector and those with a labour intensity where there can be not only the price criterion, but there must be quality, because they are services to citizens. Just as it is important to have inserted the prohibition of extension of concession contracts. I could still point to a lot of other elements. It may not have happened often during the current parliamentary term, but in the past legislation we have adopted many delegated laws and then we have seen that in legislative decrees the delegations and guiding principles that Parliament gave have not always been respected. We count - and I tell the government - not only to see the legislative decrees soon, because it is absolutely important that they be brought to the attention of Parliament immediately, but also that this time, precisely in homage and in coherence with the good work that has been done by the Senate - and I hope also by the House - these principles are properly implemented and respected in the legislative decrees. For all these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the Free and Equal Group - Ecosolidali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u87	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission and Vice-Minister Bellanova, with whom we have worked these weeks to lay off an important measure. It is a delegated law and, therefore, we will return to express opinions, of course, but Parliament's direction is fundamental and that is what we wanted to draw our attention to. First we gave ourselves rules. The rules are that Parliament gives guidelines, which then debate within the Commission, which therefore represents all the parliamentary groups. The first objective was to understand if there was the will, if there was the intention to find a synthesis, a solution that would go in the general interest. Now, every now and then, we Members of Parliament have the urge to plant the flags, almost as happens with the umbrellas for the beaches, to quote a subject of these days, which I know very well. Now, starting with an initial and fair presentation of amendments by the various parliamentary groups, there was a sudden thought of setting objectives which were the result of objective needs. There was the problem of the speed of procurement; there was the pressing problem of prices, which are rising continuously. It will not be the law of delegation that resolves it. This is another subject, which also concerns the question of energy and raw materials; a subject that involves everyone and which is having hallucinating implications. I turn to the government, but it knows it well. Attention: there will be the problem not of how we will spend the money, but another: if companies today accept to do some work that they will then do tomorrow, when the price change will be really large, someone will worry and think that maybe it will be better not to execute them. As someone said, if we have already made framework agreements, maybe two years ago, it means that instead of making 200 kilometers of asphalt, we will achieve 80 kilometers. This is an issue on which the Government, in the implementation of the delegation, must pay attention. We have included the very important logic of the price update. We have envisaged a number of elements so that the updating of prices could result from the increase in prices, but we cannot infinitely follow this trend. Once the concept that Parliament had the right and the need to express a point of view and to give clear guidelines to the Government was established, we spoke to the Government, which accepted this point of view. Sometimes you have to push a little more and sometimes you have to push a little less. Deputy Minister Bellanova, who is a long-term politician, understands these things on the fly. Perhaps the technicality of some sometimes Dicastery is a little reluctant to understand that there is a Parliament, elected by the citizens, which needs to express a point of view. But, thanks to everyone's commitment, we have come to an agreement. And I also want to thank Minister Giovannini, who has always grasped this need. And what result have we brought home, not for us, since this is a choral intervention? We brought home the price review. We have brought home a result that until now we thought impossible and for which I must thank the intuition of the rapporteur Cioffi. I defined the subject as the need to involve local businesses in the work that is being carried out on the territory. The man, more cultured and professional, suggested the definition of small business act, which is consequently the concept of the European directive that takes into account the territoriality of small and medium-sized enterprises. And we have also achieved this important objective. The other question is the draw. If you remember, a few years ago to make the choice he drew. At a certain point, in a regional race the second number extracted on the wheel of Bari was taken out to choose the company, because so it was foreseen in a resolution of the Apulian Regional Council. Well, we have now overcome this concept, because we have taken away the draw in the choice of companies. Look, it's an epochal fact, and only together could we do it. I also mention the choice of national products, with a maximum percentage of products from third countries, and therefore the nationality of what we do: small businesses, the territory, the price review, our products. Insurance covers for professionals are another important element: if you are an engineer, a surveyor or an architect, how you extend the pen immediately someone hits you on the hand, because you will pay personally for yourself, children, grandchildren, cousins and uncles. The introduction of such covers is a very important fact. The pledges to climb are an incredible thing. If one made a contract of 10 million, he remained engaged, despite the state of progress, for 10 million until the end of the work: a madness that meant to prevent the enterprise from going ahead on other works, because perhaps the castle that the enterprise had was not enough to cover the commitment of trust. It is therefore another epochal element that companies were waiting for. Payments and the maximum reduction: in this regard the concept for me should be totalitarian and offer more economically advantageous. It is not possible that the downward end in itself is the main road for a country that focuses on quality [[Applause]] That's absurd. And we have incorporated the amendment into it by finding a compromise. One thing we fully appreciated was that of the Council of State. We all agree that we disagree. [[Applause]] We really don't agree. Mr Vice-Minister, it is therefore up to you to convey the fact that we agree because we disagree. Although we have brought the measure into operation by remodulating the amendment and trying to water it down a bit, we believe that the decisions must be taken by the Government and Parliament and it should not be a technicalism to influence the choices on public works, procurement and the institutional life of this country. We didn't agree, but we're sure we'll find a solution. There is still a passage in the House of Deputies, Mr Deputy Minister, and so who knows what will happen. We are available to find accommodation, in any case. Forza Italia strongly votes for this measure because it reflects a point of view that we have been going on for 20 years and that with this approval probably goes in the right direction. So, thank you all and good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u90	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too, of course, thank the rapporteurs, Senator Pergreffi and Senator Cioffi, all 8a The Commission has committed itself to this rather particular measure and I shall now explain why. The code of contracts is a story to write and it's an endless story. The contract code, what we are talking about and about almost daily, can be referred to the legislative decree of 18 April 2016, no. 50. The code was necessary because it was an instrument which had to transpose European directives no. 23, 24 and 25 of 2014. And the ultimate objective was to ensure fundamental values such as flexibility, transparency, the prevention of corruption, the infiltration of organised crime, introducing - compared to the European directives - additional instruments and even new institutions marked by greater rigour, without falling into gold plating, the practice of introducing levels of regulation higher than the minimum required by the directives. This code, therefore, was to replace a decree of the President of the Republic of 2010 which used a set of guidelines called soft law. This change of approach was intended to ensure greater simplicity and slimness. It was the goal that had to be achieved. In fact, however, this objective was never achieved, because over time, instead of adapting to European directives, Parliament succeeded, by a law of 28 January 2016, No 11, which delegated to the Government for the implementation of directives no. 23, 24 and 25 of 2014, to put in place the delegation law and two months later bore legislative decree no. 50 of 18 April 2016. Today we are in the exact same situation. In 2016 first of all the decree a priori, that bearing, the decree of the President of the Republic n. 207 of 2010 was replaced with that of 2016, which had to transpose these directives. Since 2014, these directives have not yet been transposed, although there has been a legislative activity aimed at simplifying and realignment these procedures that have never happened. We are in 2022 and we are again here with a delegation law that must transpose the famous directives of 2014. I say this for the sake of clarity, because someone may have a vision of the code as a regulatory summary aimed exclusively at lightening, simplifying and clarifying the rules governing public contracts and contracts. In fact, we - and I say in general - could have implemented and re-aligned all the legislation related to the topic - referring to the European legislation compared to which other countries are much ahead of us since 2014 - proposing, perhaps, an instrument that, in addition to transposing, could take a step further and arrive at the condition to review what is the regulatory compendium itself, so as to offer operators and those who make daily use of this code a truly effective and above all immediate instrument. Why am I saying this, Minister, thanking you for your key speech? The work that has been done for this delegation is aimed at declining principles and rules that have been dragging on for many years. These are rules that should have been implemented before. If we ask someone today as he uses the code, he knows that one party has been suspended for the intervention of the measure unblocks yards (only up to the sub-threshold); then it went for derogation and something else intervened; so the installation of this legislation has also been dismantled to the point that an impressive confusion has been created. The measure in our examination declines a number of fundamental criteria, but - attention! - a piece is missing, not to be in the same situation that we have already experienced. If, after the adoption of this measure, the implementing decrees are not enacted, this regulation, with all the effort and work that has been done by the Commissions, will remain here. There is little time, colleagues, because the criteria contained in it will have to go to support the work of the PNRR, which is coming. In addition, we have to face the high prices of raw materials; a war that is almost inside the house, and no longer on the doorstep; a very difficult social situation; a concept of peace that is drifting away. If we want to be operational and really direct - I ask the Government - don't happen what happened in 2016, when we had to align with the 2014 directives; don't happen again. In 2022 we are still here to align ourselves with old situations that have not been taken into consideration: this is the last chance we have. After that, our companies, our operators, all the stakeholders involved in these measures will be in a position to be unable to operate. And not to be operational, in the constancy of such dramatic situations, means not to give Italy the opportunity to recover and to implement what we have all worked for together, which we have approved and which in any case represents a debit for our future generations, namely the PNRR. The work was done by choosing a different, much more limiting measure. Now it is up to the Government to implement it in a short time by issuing its implementing decrees and to give the possibility of aligning ourselves like all countries with a European simplification regulation that we should already have. This is crucial. If we re-propose our thanks, we shall vote in favour of the measure, in the hope that we will not have to submit a question or a motion on it or, worse still, read the newspapers to hear us say that it is an empty box. [[Applause.]] (17.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u93	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Minister - who arrived just in time for my explanation of vote - in announcing the opinion of Movimento 5 Stars to the measure before our examination, I must say to all my colleagues that we are here today to give a concrete signal to the Government: it is possible to overcome the use of urgent decree alone. [[Applause]] In a difficult measure such as the contract code, we in the Commission have been able to find very wide and cross-cutting convergence. This means that when the interests of the citizens are at the heart of the debate, it is possible to go beyond the problems that exist between us, even if starting from visions originating in very different contexts, as Senator Mallegni said before. We favour the most economically advantageous offer, but we would like to give more priority to it by contextualizing the way in which it is awarded. The delegation law is fragmented over time and disarticulated. Let us remember that we started with the Lanza law of 1865, one hundred and sixty years ago. That's all it took. We must also transpose European legislation and, therefore, the complexity is increasing so much that the operators in this sector have difficulty chasing the changes to the Procurement Code. And that seems very clear to us. However, it is also true that Italy, unlike other countries, has a historical recognition in the quality of its construction workers. In Italy we do construction company. In the rest of the world, the objective of construction is mainly pursued through finance companies, and that does not convince us. Returning to the first framework law on public works, Law 109 of 1994, so-called Merloni law, the problem - hopefully not repeated today - was related to the exit of the implementing regulation which - according to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 554 of 1999 - took five years to get out. Then we turn to Ministerial Decree No 145 of 2000 and Decree of the President of the Republic No 34 of 2000, the new law on public works, Legislative Decree No 163 of 2006. It took four years for an implementing decree, the decree of the President of the Republic n. 207 of 2010. We therefore come to the last framework law, Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016, whose implementing regulations have been lost in nothingness. That is the problem of the failure of that code. [[Applause]] That's all it is. That is why we had to influence the matter during the course of this parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the decree-law of Genoa. With the so-called unlocking yards we have done something formidable. Today we change the adjective, we move it from lower or, at most, if we talk about price or decrease. However, it is also true that we must try to facilitate procedures tailored to the objective to be pursued. If that objective has a very convincing technology, then it is rewarding - as Senator Mallegni said - the economically advantageous offer. Otherwise - as happened with the unblock-boats - finally the lowest price we put it behind us definitively, finally naming the most reasonable price. [[Applause]] We then came to the end to intervene with the Decree-Law simplifications during the year 2020, practically yesterday. But now is the time to speed up the legislation on work because the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are coming. These are precious funds waiting for us. In the Commission with the parliamentary groups, we have put the emphasis on speeding up the implementation of public works. Attention: implementation. We try to overcome the concept of mere achievement. In order to carry out an intervention, it is necessary to start from planning, programming, design; then there are the competition, the custody, the beginning of the works, the realization, the maintenance, the testing and finally the management of the work. In this draft law we have therefore decided to intervene strongly precisely in the phases that anticipate the realization of the works, that is in those of the planning and the reliance of the works. Of course, it is estimated that with the PNRR there are 100 billions that will be contracted. But now the government must have the courage to throw its heart beyond the obstacle, because in addition to those public works there are hundreds of billions of private construction works. In this regard, we are discussing in the Commission a draft law to delegate to the Government on the reordering of all the legislation on construction. I would like to remind everyone that the construction sector contributes a third to the increase in Italy's annual GDP. In the draft law we would have liked to have touched on other issues, other aspects, for example, we had thought of clearly distinguishing regulation between public works, services and supplies, because they are too different to be dealt with unequivocally. I hope the government can do that through the implementing regulations. We wanted to protect subcontractors more: we hear about a business crisis but, when the main contractor has a crisis or fails or has economic problems and has not yet had the money from the State, we proposed to have the State take over in support of that supplier or that subcontractor. In the same way, we wanted to facilitate the award procedure by means of the average of tenders, the anti-disturbation method and the discipline of the cutting of wings. We also wanted to give priority, with the dignified compensation that is due, to external advice when public administrations do not manage to plan. For us, in fact, design is crucial and central in the field of public works, but the direction must be at the head of the public administration. To do this there are not so many human resources available and, therefore, it is essential to turn to competent external resources, those that the world envies us, through a sum that could be allocated within the economic framework. It wasn't like that. But we tell you that we will not stop fighting on these issues, because we do not give up. [[Applause]] Thanks to the presence of the 5-star Movimento within this varied majority we have done many good things in the present draft law delegation, starting from the protection of workers on site - we mourn so many white deaths - and also for the compensation that must be guaranteed to these people who work from morning to evening and support enormous efforts, sometimes away from their homes. We have excluded from the amounts provided for in the tendering procedure the amounts relating to labour and safety costs. [[Applause]] We have dealt with the protection of businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, with the division into lots with qualitative and quantitative criteria, and I am glad that we have done so. In addition, we have also protected the resources within the public administration: we have done well, because many engineers, architects, geometries and geologists would like to design, but they fear and wonder who protects them in the case of a design error. That is why we have put in place an insurance policy for the contracting authority, which is the responsibility of the public body, which covers the professional risks of the professional. We have guaranteed the centrality of this Parliament. As many previous speakers have said, the government must listen to us. We'll put some conditions in place if we need to. If the government doesn't want to accept them, it has to come and explain why. [[Applause]] It really seems to me to be an important position on the part of this Parliament, too often tarnished and surpassed by decree-laws. Finally, perhaps one of the most important points - certainly for me - is the pursuit of ecological transition. We have made it clear that the environmental energy objective must be recognised in procurement and that there is an obligation to include the minimum environmental criteria. This is a clear, certified, black-and-white step in the direction of ecological transition. Colleagues, we must now support one last effort by ensuring that this legislation is as stable and structured as possible over time. We have to intervene little or nothing. It is necessary to allow the operators of the sector to organize themselves to the best in order to do - and well - these works. Therefore, we are sure that we must all join together to win the challenge of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. For these reasons, I preannounce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars to the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u94	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u96	You have the floor, Senator Bonino.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u97	Since today is her birthday, the Presidency wishes her well, certainly shared by the whole Senate. [[Applause]] BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Thank you, Mr President, and colleagues. I regret to contradict you, Mr President, but the years are not seventy-four, but forty-seven. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u98	I didn't give a number, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u99	BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). In a country where a friend of mine says you don't study math, that's what happens. I would like to inform you that yesterday the Senate Human Rights Commission, with the accession of the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Senator Group in solidarity with Afghan women, promoted in the Senate the meeting with Shaharzad Akbar, who fled on 15 August last, taking the last possible plane, from Kabul and today lives in exile in London and makes a tour to help us not to forget. She travels with a husband and a child, she is seven months pregnant - so what a struggle she endures - and today she is in Milan, and then she is in Venice. He greatly appreciated the solidarity he found in Italy. I think we should listen to the men and women of the diaspora, who of course - as you can imagine - are in a rather difficult situation. Thank you again for your good wishes. I'd be happier if they were ten years younger, but that's how life goes. [[Applause]] It'll happen to you, too. Don't worry. Do not be envious because it will happen to you and, therefore, prepare yourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u100	Thank you, Senator Bonino, and congratulations again for your forty-seven years.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u103	ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to bring to this authoritative Chamber the fishermen's voice of the historic Marina di Schiavonea Marinery, to my city, Corigliano-Rossano. I also bring the voice of the fishermen of Cariati, Crucoli, Cirò Marina and Crotone and all the fishermen of Calabria and Italy. Fishermen rarely ask or stop. They, the people of the sea, are accustomed to difficulties and storms, so if in these days they have stopped and manifest it is for a sacred reason. The exponential increase in fuel no longer allows Italian fishermen to go out into the sea, as they say in jargon, wait and continue their activity which is the first fundamental link of an important supply chain for the whole national economy and which gives work to many families. The shipowners can no longer bear the expenses of diesel oil, which has increased almost 60 percent, and going fishing at this time would only accumulate debts and not gains. All this has as a consequence the loss of income of many and many families. And then, Mr Draghi, listen to the reasons and needs of fishermen and support them with instruments that you, a great expert in economics and finance, will be able to find, will be able to define, and will be able to help, with these instruments, the fishermen who at this moment call for help. Think of a necessary budgetary deviation if that is the case, because we are in an extreme situation, we are at war, at a time when the price of raw materials increases. To Minister Patuanelli and to the undersecretary with delegation to the fishing Battistoni I say no more to turn the head as it is happening in recent times: defend and support the fishermen in their legitimate and serious request for help. The fishermen, with the dignity and confidentiality that has always distinguished them, cannot and must not be abandoned to themselves. I hope that soon there will be positive results to review our fishing vessels sailing the sea again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u106	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, yet another feminicide has reddened the news pages of these days, in Pontecagnano, in the province of Salerno. This time the victim's name was Anna Borsa and she was only 30 years old. Anna was working in the hairdressing shop where she was employed when her killer caught up with her and shot her in cold blood. The young woman died immediately and in a moment all her dreams were swept away. Once again killing is an ex-boyfriend who doesn't accept the end of the relationship. Once again killing women are men who need to impose themselves with violence, men who say they love them and instead kill them. Cases of violence against women in Italy still reach alarming numbers. This Parliament gave an important signal in 2019 with the approval of the red code, but unfortunately that is not enough. There are still too many cases where women are not free to make their own choices without fear for their lives. We must not be ashamed to admit that women in this country are still too often relegated to subordinate roles and that until a few decades ago was normal. We must recognise the limitations of our society in order to overcome them. Men first must be at the side of women so that we can really hope for change. We must take action to tackle the problem at its root and educate men to respect women. Each of us must bear the pain that violence generates, because the evil that we face is a social evil, a deep evil that has its roots in our culture still too masculine. We owe it to the blameless victims, to their families, to the communities shocked by the brutality of these gestures to which I address today all my emotion and mourning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u109	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the unanimous condemnation of the bloody war in Ukraine triggered by the aggression of the Soviet forces, I would like to thank the entire community of our country, which is once again demonstrating its deep spirit of solidarity and its strong humanitarian sense Open Arms: with open arms. It represents, on this and on many other occasions, the clear demonstration that the Italian people have a community spirit and solidarity with those in difficulty and need concrete aid, a stretched hand, beyond the different positions or the different ways of interpreting the crisis in Ukraine. The war of aggression has no political color or religious conviction. It always goes everywhere and still condemned, without if and without but. It represents the denial of human nature itself. With open arms, with a heart full of pain, the spontaneous initiatives of solidarity associations, of individual citizens, of entire families, of commercial activities, with the sending of food products, drugs, means of basic necessities, blankets, clothing to help the civilian population, children, women and the elderly, innocent victims of a war that they did not want, but of which they pay the most dramatic consequences. Community spirit and respect for human life certainly cannot stop only at all. Solidarity without frontiers: this is the profound spirit of solidarity, the welcome of refugees in our cities, in our parishes and in our communities. Defenseless human beings who, exhausted by fatigue, fasting, physical suffering, with hearts grieved by the detachment of their affections, by their loved ones and by the horrors of war, which forced them to flee from their native land, are already in our country; and many others are coming, as in other European countries. It is estimated that, in the state, about two million refugees have already fled from the burning Ukraine. The horrors of war, the pain of those who suffer, the violence on their bodies, the frightened looks represent an epochal drama for all of us. This truce must be addressed together, with a deep spirit of solidarity, which goes beyond the individual citizen, but also beyond the individual community or the individual country. We must lend a hand to those who ask for help. This is the profoundly Christian, humanitarian and even truly pro-European spirit. Our sad and sorrowful soul must react and open up, overcoming geographical boundaries and cultural barriers. We open the real humanitarian corridors to save innocent victims. The voice of dialogue is stronger than the crackling of machine guns and the explosion of bombs. No more executioners and victims, but an immediate truce to start a true dialogue of peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u110	Senator Mautone, in thanking you for your speech, which I fully agree with, I just want to point out to you that, at first, there was a small refutation. He spoke of the Soviet forces' aggression. As much as Putin follows the invasions in Hungary and Prague, it is not exactly Soviet. [[Senator Mautone's comments.]] I think he said "Soviet." He's gonna listen to the surgery again, and if I'm wrong, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-412.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.05 a.m.
