ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for the times, even in view of the current live television. Senator Ferrazzi has the right to explain the question 3-03007 on the financing of urban regeneration projects, in particular with respect to the quota allocated to the municipalities of Northern Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is well known and I know that you are following it directly, as it is important and worth resolving. This is the appropriate funding to be provided to municipalities that have participated in a fundamental call, which is among other things one of the first of the PNRR, co-financed also with this fund. We are talking about funding in municipalities with more than 15,000 inhabitants, which are numerous and also have very important and degraded suburbs in all the cities of our country. Minister, the Democratic Party does not have the slightest intention of composing stunned controversy between the North and the South, as it knows very well that in our country we either grow together, or no one grows. However, it is quite clear that the criteria used to award financial resources have been particular, which are too damaging to the Northern municipalities. The difference between eligible projects and those which have been financed leaps to the eye. For example, only 5 municipalities were financed in my region - Veneto - and only 24 of the 227 projects submitted were financed. When we talk about cities, we are talking about a central issue, as 50% of the world's population lives in cities (it will soon be 70 percent) and 70% of the world's pollution is already in cities. This is also true in our country. So when we talk about the development of cities, we talk about the development of our country. It is therefore important that the Government has made a decisive contribution, through budget chapters financed and refinanced, with a multiannual programme until 2035. Minister, we are asking you and the Government that the EUR 900 million that are missing to finance all the projects that are allowed to be banned be allocated with a certain and rapid time, giving answers to the municipalities that have already planned projects that can be sunk and that the citizens are waiting with great strength. We wait confidently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u5	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained to the House of Members yesterday in reply to a similar question and as the honourable Members have pointed out, the legal framework for the provision of contributions to local authorities for investment in urban regeneration projects has been implemented by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 January 2021, adopted in consultation with the Ministers of Economy and Finance, the Interior and Infrastructure, following an agreement reached at the State-City Conference and local self-governments with the ANCI on 26 November 2020. It was agreed at that meeting that it was necessary to introduce, among the criteria for project selection, the one referring to the social and material vulnerability index defined by Istat. This criterion is applicable when, as in the present case, the amount of requests received exceeds the amount of financial resources available and results from the need to recognise a preference for the most disadvantaged local realities, in line with the purpose of legislative intervention. Therefore, the decree identifying the municipalities' beneficiary results is the result of agreed criteria with a view to the distribution of resources. It is clear that the possibility of making contributions to projects deemed eligible, but which did not benefit from the resources for the incapience of the available funds, required further integration of the appropriations. I recall that, after an initial intervention already carried out with Decree-Law 152 of 2021, which implemented in the framework of the resources of the PNRR the funds available by supplementing them of 200 million euros for the financial years 2023 and 2024, further interventions were arranged with the budget law 2022 to meet these needs of enlargement of the audience of the beneficiaries. It has been established that the funds, integrated for the current financial year of an additional 300 million, can also be allocated to projects submitted by municipalities with a population of less than 15,000 inhabitants who in associated form exceed that threshold. Those municipalities which have not benefited from funding because of insufficient resources will also be able to contribute to this new financing. The 2022 budget law provided that, as from 2023, the Regions will be able to use the resources already allocated to them for investments in the area of urban regeneration, provided for by the 2019 budget law, precisely for the purpose of carrying out projects falling within their territory deemed eligible. However, I am well aware of the sensitivity and relevance of the issue and in line with a special agenda approved during the discussion of the budget law 2022, I assure you that the Government is committed to identifying any useful solution to meet the needs represented here.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u7	Senator Alfieri has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u8	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, above all, for the final step in his efforts on behalf of the Government to find the right solutions. It is the first passage of the PNRR on the territory, towards the local authorities and those municipalities over the 15,000 inhabitants and not only for the large metropolitan cities or the capital municipalities, but also for those municipalities that are often the small engines of the territory, the references of the local plans and services and can also be the showcase with which we tell the public and citizens that the PNRR works, that there is a return to the territory. For this reason we really think that it is important to address not only the issue, as we rightly do in the PNRR, of generational gaps, of gender and between North and South, but also the gaps within the same Regions and cities. A ban like this also serves to address disparities that are often considered secondary. We consider the commitment that has been made very important. It would be a signal to be able to finance all the projects that are allowed in order to be able to start as well as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u9	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-03014 on the verification of the competence of prefectures under public contracts, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, given that Law No 190 of 6 November 2012 provided for the establishment of white lists in each prefecture, since the PNRR develops in six missions and reserves considerable funding for the reclamation of orphan sites, it is estimated that the Office of the Single Commissioner for Reclamation has found two specific criticalities regarding the white list procedure of category X companies, which deal precisely with reclamations and environmental services and, that is, cases of firms whose application for registration remained unfinished and regularly registered firms, but with a request for renewal of the registration pending for years; whereas, in order to be able to participate in the tenders, the mere application for registration and for the award of public contracts, the mere question of the single national database for anti-mafia documentation (BDNA) by the station is considered sufficient, in a prefection for high operational activities such as that of Naples on 12 October 2021 on 1,076 companies requesting inclusion in white list only for 31 is indicated a result, while the other 1.045 are now in the phase of registration and therefore, pending. As many as 139 out of 1,045 applications concern the certification for category X. On the merits, then, the list of the aforementioned 1,076 companies counts 8 with application for membership for 2014, 46 for 2015, 118 for 2016, 96 for 2017, 144 for 2018, 140 for 2019, 172 for 2020 and 352 (i.e. more than twice the previous year) for 2021. Also in Naples the companies already registered, instead, are altogether 1,489, of which 615 with request for updating in registration, 191 of which pertain to category X and only 10 with refusal of registration. Of the above 615, 24 have been waiting for updates since 2016, 48 since 2017, 54 since 2018 and 64 since 2019. Even for 73 companies, whose registration has expired, no current updates are reported, although they remain in the list. Mr Minister, you are therefore asking whether you intend to verify what guarantees of independence from mafia infiltrations are presented by white list companies, whose verification is not carried out or refers to an instance dating back to time, and also what guarantees of efficiency guarantees the question of the national anti-mafia database (BDNA) provided for as a discharge act for the award of public contracts. I would also like to ask you whether you intend to check what are the actual reasons that have not made possible the improvement of numerous positions of inclusion in the white list, with special attention to situations that date back over five years from today and if the Minister does not consider it appropriate to verify the regularity of the insertions and checks in white list in all the prefectures of Italy, also in the light of the lack of uniformity of the management and presentation of the data of the lists by the aforementioned government offices, in order to ensure a smooth use of the instrument by the contracting stations and the effective validity of the procedures provided for the exclusion of companies from mafia infiltrations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u11	Mr President, it should be pointed out that the system of administrative documentation has been designed by the legislator to ensure the necessary checks, without, however, paralysing business activity. In fact, the anti-mafia code provides that, if the verifications carried out do not end within the prescribed times, the public administrations can proceed even in the absence of the anti-mafia information, it being understood that in case of negative outcome of the investigations will necessarily be ordered the revocation of the widening measures, or activated the withdrawal from the contracts. With regard to the criticalities evoked regarding the time of registration in the white lists, it must be pointed out that the relative investigative activity is conditioned by several factors, relative to the territorial context of reference and the complexity of the investigations that may sometimes require the involvement of various prefectures. As for the specific situation of Naples, it is evident that on the time of escape of the requests for registration in the white list significantly affects critical factors related to that territorial context, this is due both to the high number of instances, and to the complexity of the criminal dynamics, whose analysis ends up conditioning the definition of the individual positions. The prefect of Naples has specified also that among the various factors that contribute to prolong the duration of the investigation procedure, the most frequent is represented by the variations of the corporate structure or the family compositions, which involve every time the start of new investigations. Moreover, the Naples Prefecture periodically checks the continuation of the interest of the companies in the white list registration, in order to streamline the workloads on the one hand and to concentrate the investigations on the requests for which the relevance of the interest is found instead. It is also necessary to specify that, pursuant to Article 3 of Decree-Law No 76 of 2020, the anti-mafia information and white list registrations receive the same discipline: where it is not possible to comply with the release times, they are however preceded by a verification of the findings of the data processing center (CED) interforces, aimed at ascertaining that there are no prejudices and cases against the company. The result of this verification is the issue of provisional release information, which allows access to public contracts under a decisive condition, intended to operate when further investigations are concluded negatively. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Interior on 13 December issued a circular to the prefects with which, in emphasizing the current historical context characterized by the need to give prompt implementation to the objectives of the PNRR, a particular commitment was required to limit as much as possible the time of dealing with the practices of registration in the white lists, in order to create the conditions for an economic recovery in full transparency, as much as possible free from risks of criminal infiltration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am pleased to hear of the circular of 13 December that I was not aware of, but, if I understand correctly, it asks the prefects to increase their commitment to the PNRR. In applauding of course the activity of prefects and prefecture staff, already engaged on these checks, however, I wonder how they can, without an increase of staff, be efficient in being able to meet the request that is being made to them. It seems to me that it is not only a problem of company changes, rightly present, but also a problem of personnel of prefectures engaged in these activities. Since it does not appear to me that there is dedicated staff, I have the impression that on the territory each prefecture acts on the basis of its own possibilities. From what I understand there is no dedicated staff, there are, therefore, in many cases analysts able to verify all the aspects that need to be considered, there is no monitoring, there is no monitoring and it is not possible because, as I said in the illustration, every prefecture even adopts its own criterion in drawing up the lists. There are some which, for example, do not even include the category for which the individual company applies. There is therefore some discretion which then has an impact on the possibility of having a picture and monitoring the situation. Naples was just an example, but the situation is no different in the rest of Italy. Knowing that there are white list registration applications... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u13	Senator Pirovano has the right to explain the question 3-03013 on recent cases of sexual assault in public places, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, as we unfortunately know in Milan on New Year's Eve, at least nine young women were victims of sexual harassment and violence. As we can see on the numerous videos circulating on the net and as reported by the media, 18 young people, 15 years old and three minors, between fifteen and twenty-one years old, both foreign and second generation Italians of North African origin, have been identified because they are considered involved in sexual assaults. According to the investigators' findings, there would be at least three different episodes of violence that were always consumed in Milan in Piazza Duomo on New Year's Eve. These three episodes involve this group of young and very young people who seem to act in packs, but above all in an organized way. These images, of course, immediately reminded us of what happened during the 2016 New Year's Eve in Cologne and in other German cities, where hundreds of foreigners and German citizens of North African origin relented against women intent on celebrating New Year's Eve, causing real organized guerrilla actions aimed at sexual assaults. We know, of course, that violence against women is a problem that affects all societies, but attention must be paid to the pervasiveness of certain cultures that have radicalized over time a vision of women who are highly discriminatory, placed in a condition of subalternity and in stark contrast to the principles of our Constitution which are based on the democratic culture that has belonged to the West for millennia. It is worrying that in some Arab countries in the North African region the collective harassment of a woman is a practice that has had an exponential increase in the last twenty years, following the path of religious radicalization. There are areas and neighborhoods without any form of control, especially in European states where there is a higher rate of immigration. This may lead to the risk of an increase in phenomena such as those described and highlights the inability to predict stable integration processes. It is worrying about the non-management of the phenomenon, especially in the highly migratory Member States and there is a great difficulty in combating the proliferation of these groups of very young people, who do not recognize the value systems of our European countries. The Minister is therefore asked what measures he intends to take to counter the proliferation of phenomena of this nature. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u15	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u16	Mr President, in expressing my solidarity with the victims of these very serious attacks, I would first like to inform you about the initiatives that have been taken so far to identify those responsible and to ensure that they are brought to justice. Evidence, first of all, that the presence of personnel of the Milan police station in the place where the events happened allowed, for the most serious of the episodes, to intervene in a timely manner, fleeing the aggressors. On the facts in question, the Milan mobile team, in agreement with the judicial authority, immediately activated capillaries analysis for the identification of those responsible, including through the use of open sources and social networks, proceeding to the acquisition of the images recorded by video surveillance cameras. Within the framework of the investigations so arranged were carried out house and personal searches in Milan, Turin and Bergamo against 18 subjects, of which three minors, both of Italian and foreign nationality. At the outcome of this investigative activity, the prosecutor executed the decree of arrest of suspect of a crime against two persons deemed responsible for the crime of sexual violence. With regard to them, the Quaestor of Milan adopted the provision of the compulsory leaflet and the oral notice. I repeat that those of Milan are very serious and unacceptable and I assure you that the police forces will make every effort to ensure the safety of our cities and to prevent similar behavior from happening again, including through possible adaptation of the staff present there. With regard to the profiles referred to by the honourable Member, relating to respect for the female figure and to the rejection of any despicable offensive behaviour of the freedom and dignity of women, especially if committed with the complicity of the vile anonymity of the herd, I share the need, represented by the honourable Member, for a profound action of social intervention in an educational and preventive way. The response of the State and the institutions cannot, in fact, be limited to the only, though essential, repressive component. Appropriate policies to reduce social hardship need to be developed, particularly in the youth population and urban areas exposed to degradation and deviance. The aim is to avoid any form of ghettoisation which is a glue to resentment and social hatred and which ends up being antithetical in relation to the need for effective Community integration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pirovano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u17	Mr Minister, I am pleased with your words, but of course I will be able to say that I am satisfied when I see the facts. [[Applause]] that there will be a radical change in the management of migration. If it is true that there is the big problem of redistribution, we know that we - we have to think about our country, everyone will think about his - can act really doing what he just said about limited numbers, because the greater the mass arrivals the more difficult it will be to manage integration. I also say this as mayor of a small municipality where immigrants are not considered foreigners, but have a name, a surname, a face; but we cannot continue to leave all the weight of integration on schools, especially at this time when young people already have so many problems due to the pandemic, the DAD and what follows. One cannot leave all the weight of integration on municipalities or volunteering. When they arrive on our territory, immigrants need not only to receive a bed and something to eat, but, when they make their citizenship journey, to feel truly Italian citizens. I confer citizenships, but I know perfectly well that there are enormous problems of cultural clashes, and if at home the first generation family that has not had an integration gives teachings not in line with our values, obviously the boy will never understand what the right line to follow: at school one thing is taught, at home they teach him maybe another (not all, because there are also integrated families). So, you have to act quickly because these episodes are the tip of an iceberg. Even in our small centers we notice disturbing phenomena that make us understand that these people do not feel at home, and the only way to respect the rules is to feel at home and love the country in which we are located. We must therefore help those who arrive in our country to integrate even by limiting arrivals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u18	Senator Pellegrini Marco has the right to explain the question 3-03016 on measures against organised crime in Foggiano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u19	Minister Lamorgese, in recent days numerous bomb attacks have taken place against economic activities in San Severo and Foggia. Such a large number of bombs, enclosed in such a short period of time, have aroused great concern, dismay and alarm among the citizens, and unfortunately these attacks do not constitute a novelty in our territory, since in recent months and years we have had to record many similar events to the detriment of other economic activities, but also to the detriment of the Forces of the Order. Just to give a few examples, I remember in San Severo shots fired against a police vehicle; in Cerignola an device devastated the car of the commander of the local Carabinieri station or an act to the detriment of a petty officer always of the weapon in Corato or even the bomb exploded in front of the police station of Canosa di Puglia. These bloody and striking ways used by the Mafia comrades have the clear objective of intimidating and prostrating citizenship and economic operators in order to achieve the criminal goals. On the other hand, the state - it must be emphasized - especially in the last four years, has achieved very important successes realized in hundreds of anti-mafia operations and hundreds of arrests that have brought to prison practically all the bosses of the local Mafia families to serve penalties with sentences passed in court or pending final sentences. Moreover, in February 2020 Foggia was established the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate, on which we of the Movimento 5 Stars had fought very hard, and thanks to its action, Minister Lamorgese. Again, there were dozens and dozens of interdicts emanating from the prefect and as many as five dissolutions of municipal councils, including those of the city. All this thanks to the courage and professionalism of men and women of the judiciary, the Forces of order and the territorial government branches. Obviously, however, this is not enough. More needs to be done to control the territory more effectively and to defend citizens. The important cities of San Severo and Cerignola, with their 60,000 inhabitants, who, as said, are affected by dangerous mafia clans, are not equipped with police stations of the so-called first level, with all that follows in terms of less technical and human resources and investigative capacities. We believe that there is a need to increase the number of police officers in these two cities, so we urgently raise these police stations to top-level facilities, and to that end we trust in your work and your action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u20	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u21	As the honourable Members have pointed out, the beginning of this year has been marked by the re-emergence of the extortive activity of the Foggian mafias, perpetrated at the expense of local businesses, which has raised particular social alarm. It is known that the context has long been characterized by a significant evolution of local organized crime, which, in analogy to the modus operandi of other Mafia consorteries, has oriented its interests towards the economic and social fabric and the administrative one, with the clear intention of infiltrating in these areas for the pursuit of its illicit purposes. The reaction of the State, however, was not lacking, as evidenced by the activity carried out by the judiciary and police forces, intensified after the massacre of San Marco in Lamis of 2017, and also the recent institution, in February 2020, of an operational section of the DIA with its own headquarters in Foggia. Significant results have also been achieved in recent years in the area of repressive action, with the adoption - as the honourable Member pointed out - of some 400 protective measures, the seizure of large quantities of drugs, weapons, ammunition and large assets, for a total amount of EUR 30 million. At the same time, in the field of anti-mafia prevention, 67 interdicts were adopted for companies connected or conditioned by the organized crime of Foggia, while the action of vigilance on attempts to infiltration in the local administrations has recently led to the dissolution of the City Council of Foggia, which follows other dissolutions, such as those of Mattinata, Cerignola and Manfredonia. There is no doubt that the rise of the Mafia offensive, in particular in the municipality of San Severo, determines the need for further intensification of the action of prevention and contrast, precisely in order to reaffirm the principles of legality and restore the necessary levels of security. It must also be said that in this direction next week, on Monday, I will be in Foggia to preside over a meeting of the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security, in which will also participate the leaders of the Police Forces, the Chief of Police, the general commanders of Finance and Carabinieri, and in addition the national summits of the anti-Mafia judiciary. The meeting will also be attended by the Commissioner anti-racket and anti-wear, precisely in view of the fact that, on that same day, an anti-mafia and anti-wear association will be presented in the name of the memory of the Luciani brothers, victims of the ambush of San Marco in Lamis. In the committee will be made an evaluation of the measures that will have to be taken and my visit to Foggia will also be the occasion for a confrontation with the mayor and the administrators of the Municipality of San Severo, to make a point of situation. However, I would also like to give more precise information on the question of police staff. I inform that between 2020 and 2021 the staff of the Finance Guard was strengthened with about 62 units of military, between officers and petty officers, while in the three years 2018-2020 about 60 additional units were assigned to the forces of the State Police, who also operate in the territory of San Severo. Therefore, it is in fact that, also according to the plan of redefining and reorganization organic, developed by the Department of Public Security at national level, but also at territorial level, additional 50 operators will be progressively assigned to the police station of Foggia, which therefore, to the completion of this program of widening and strengthening, will go from the current 497 to 547 units. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pellegrini Marco has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u22	Mr President, of course, we are satisfied with the numbers you have given us about the increase in staff, men and women in the Forces of Order. We need to review the situation and I want to report the words of the National Anti-Mafia Attorney, who is the main exponent of the fight against mafias in our country, Dr. Cafiero De Raho, who on more than one occasion spoke of Foggia's mafia situation as a national emergency. Therefore, if the present situation is an emergency, we must have the courage and the strength - which you do not lack, Mrs Minister - to face it even more forcefully and to make exceptional decisions. From our point of view, we reiterate the need for the transformation of the commissioners of San Severo and Cerignola, who - as I said before - are large towns and unfortunately are home to extremely aggressive, fierce and dangerous mob clans. There really is a need, from our point of view, to proceed in this direction. We trust in his action: he already demonstrated, in the first months of his appointment as Minister in the previous Government, that he knew how to act immediately, when he approved our urgent request to establish the DIA in Foggia. We really trust in your action and we have great confidence in you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u23	Senator Faraone has the right to explain the question 3-0015 on the consolidation and security of the Corleone bridge in Palermo, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, given that the Ministry is properly engaged in the construction of important infrastructures, all the more so today, with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and with the large investments that will be made in infrastructure, a work of 140 meters long and 30 meters wide risks being absolutely underestimated, if we do not understand its scope. The Corleone bridge, which is so small, is so strategic for the city of Palermo, because this bridge and the ring road are the only road that allows the passage from eastern Sicily to the western one, then to Falcone and Borsellino airport, and the only infrastructure that allows mobility within the city itself. If this work continues to be underestimated with regard to the importance of its realization, we risk continuing to make the fifth city of Italy feel very uncomfortable. It is a bridge that has not been secured, which had been financed and whose resources have been lost. With an amendment from Italy Viva we have requested the commissioning of this work, precisely because the Municipality of Palermo is unable to find a solution and to solve the problem. Even today there are difficulties: we believe, for example, that the chronoprogram of intervention on this work must initially foresee the realization of the two lateral lanes, in order to secure the bridge later and to avoid that there is a situation of total blocking of the city. We ask you, Minister, to give the right importance to the construction of this infrastructure, which is essential for the mobility of the fifth city of Italy. This question time is the opportunity to listen to what the Ministry wants to put on the field, in addition to the commissioning, in order to allow the city of Palermo to finally see this intervention realized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u25	Mr President, with reference to the security interventions of the Corleone bridge, I would like to remind you that on 30 March 2021 a specific protocol of understanding was signed between the Municipality of Palermo, the interregional provision for public works Sicily and Calabria and ANAS. This Memorandum of Understanding was followed by the Convention implementing the intervention, called "Resortment of the reinforced concrete structure and interventions to be carried out on the Corleone bridge" signed on 5 July 2021, with which ANAS took the role of contracting station. Sharing the crucial importance of this work and in order to accelerate the realization of the participations - as you have remembered - has proceeded to the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner, with the task to proceed, among other things, to the reorganization of the reinforced concrete structure, to the realization of the ulterior necessary participations, to the construction of the lateral bridges on the river Oreto and to the completion of the intense activities of construction of the doubling of the circumvallation of Palermo from Via Altofonte to via Belgium. With regard to the first intervention, on 4 January - a few days ago - the investigations were completed, including dynamic loading tests and the safety analysis will be issued by 15 February 2022. For the second intervention are currently in progress the supplementary investigations on the works at the time partially carried out and the final draft of the new works, which is necessary for the start of the approval procedures and the convocation of the relative conference of the services. As for the third intervention, there is an intercourse between the extraordinary commissioner and the offices of the Municipality of Palermo to assess the possibility of using a special framework agreement, aimed at overcoming the difficulties encountered so far. Considering the undoubted strategicity of the work as a link between the A29 and the A19 and for the local road, the Ministry, through the company ANAS, has already tried to accelerate the process and will continue to carry out these deepenings. In recent days I have transmitted to the Chambers the report on the outcome of the Commissements and therefore the chronoprogramma and just today we have agreed with the Vice Minister competent for the road interventions a specific intervention for single work, in particular for the Corleone bridge, to see how to accelerate the chronoprogram provided by the commissioners.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u26	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u27	I call on all of you to respect the times more rigorously.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u28	Mr Minister, I would of course ask you to pay particular attention, because, as long as the responsibility for the failure to carry out the work was of the Municipality of Palermo, we have identified responsibility for the administration and we have spoken with the appointment of the Special Commissioner. If we were to fail even with the Commissioner, at this point the responsibility would be ours, of the national government, which, precisely because it was not possible to intervene, if it was assumed, by making sure to appoint someone who could do so more quickly, among other things with the instruments made available through the simplification achieved by two important legislative measures adopted first in the Council of Ministers and then by Parliament. As I have already said, Minister, if at this moment you were to travel from Catania to Palermo-Punta Raisi, you would find endless rows of people constantly encircling day by day on a work that, I repeat, has no alternative. The invitation that I ask you therefore is to consider the importance of this work, which is inversely proportional to its size; in front of the 130-140 meters long and the 30 meters wide, you may think that it is a secondary road, but it is fundamental for mobility in that city.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u29	Senator La Russa has the right to explain the question 3-03012 on the difficulties of the rail and road transport sector due to the increase of the contagions from Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his presence. Minister, we have thought of directing this act of inspection union to you, even if, together with my colleague Mr Fazzolari, we too have been tempted to insist with the Minister of the Interior on the matter of aggressions in Piazza Duomo. As a friend of mine who is in North Africa told me, there these kinds of attacks are called taharrush gamea, which means collective harassment, a kind of crime that must be tackled by not putting it together with so many other issues, which in Italy you do not want to do and do not. I would have said that on this issue, but we have thought of other initiatives more serious than just a few minutes' speech on a question here in Parliament. I would like to ask you, Minister, with the first question I signed, whether you intend to work to remedy a serious problem in the private rail sector and in road transport at medium and long distances, which, with the spread of the pandemic and with the measures of the government, is suffering enormous damage, if we consider that we are talking about a sector that lives on tickets of the travelling people, so if people do not travel, there is a serious risk of unemployment and disservices in transport. I know that already yesterday, perhaps after our proposal for a question, something has been moved - I am quite informed - but I want to be sure that a package of measures that includes, for example, the extension of the integration fund, but also all possible support for companies operating in free and private competition, can be given: I think of the dismantling of tolls both motorway and rail; I think of a whole series of restaurants that can and must be given, because the sector directly involves citizens, but also many workers, many companies and many industrial activities that are part of the wealth of our country. I would ask whether you intend to work, as I hope, in this direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u31	Mr President, the pandemic from Covid-19 and the resulting policies of regulation and limitation of movement have changed the mobility trends of citizens and goods, although it should be pointed out that the current emerging phase is certainly a more positive picture of the initial situation, which led to the lockdown of many activities. In order to cope with the damage caused by the emergency Covid-19 significant resources, amounting to approximately eight billion euros, were allocated to the railway transport sector, on rubber, sea and air, to which are added those aimed at financing the Cassa Integrazione, the moratorium of payments also tax and other investment support measures, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also remind you that local public transport has been the subject of a very strong intervention, with a total budget of 2.7 billion euros, of which 1.2 billion in the last ten months (all already broken down and paid out). I would point out, from this point of view, that the Government had allocated 840 million for additional services in the second half of 2021 and that, in view of the fact that, despite our indications, the regions that have the responsibility for local public transport have decided not to use all the funds at their disposal, there is the possibility of using residues also to cover losses (i.e. local public transport). I am sorry, Senator La Russa, but we have already started working since last week in preparation for the next decree-law announced by the President of the Council, and on the basis of the first evidence in the last two months there is a significant decrease in transport activity, as you mentioned. Precisely in view of this contraction, the Ministry is defining the new demanding framework, which, in line with what is already foreseen in the previous emergency measures, covers the entire transport sector, identifying, in close coordination with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the resources needed for this purpose. As you mentioned, there have been meetings this week to define this demanding framework. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator La Russa to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u32	I would also like to thank you, Minister, for your words show, in addition to the figures you have given us, that there is that emergency and that need which I represent to you. When he tells me that you have been thinking about it for a few days now, he only confirms the reason for our urgent question, namely that you need, in addition to thinking about it, to decide to make concrete aid, not only by sneaking up figures more or less correct, but by giving refreshment to an essential sector, not only for those companies - I am talking about private railways, but also, and above all, medium- and long-distance road transport - but also for citizens. The consequence would be a disservice on transport, if it were to close, which would result in citizens being able to take advantage of services that private individuals provide to help public services. I am therefore waiting to be satisfied, but it is a watchful expectation, because we will continue to verify that, beyond words, the facts arrive, exactly as we do for the system of tourism, sports facilities, food, entertainment and other sectors that we are controlling. You want not in words, but in fact, to try to help.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u33	Senator Mallegni has the power to explain the question 3-03017 on the infrastructural improvement along the Tyrrhenian ridge, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working on the country's strategic infrastructure for a very long time. In the Commission public works, communications we have often battled to bring to the attention of the Government, which has received (and I thank the Minister for the work done so far), the works that, as I have used to say several times, make the infrastructure policy of the country undemocratic. In fact, there are entire realities of the territory that, in fact, do not benefit from a road that meets the objective requirements of modernity: I refer to the high speed as regards the railway and the Aurelia variant, in the case of this case, as regards the Tyrrhenian road, which is a sort of stump between Lazio and Liguria, which prevents a transit in total safety, as happens in other parts of the territory. I often remember that we also have the Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway. We always talk about the one from before I was born and I hope that we will not continue to talk about the axis of the Tyrrhenian still after we will no longer be in this blessed world. That is why, Minister, we have made this request, knowing that we feel that we are working every day to develop, work and support the work of the Ministry that you are chairing. We have also done so to make known to the community that it listens to us the commitment that the Government and the majority are putting in this direction. We would like to know formally from you, who presides over the Dicastery, the dates regarding the design and the realization of the variant Aurelia tyrrenica and high speed. I also address a prayer to you. Meanwhile, in order to give dignity to the passengers who today use the Italian railway network also in the stretch of the Tirrenica road, we retire the old commutes and place an ETR1000, that will certainly go at medium-low speed, but at least it will offer dignity and quality for a modern transport that Italy already carries on in other realities of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u35	The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the subject of the questioning senators' request, I confirm the great attention given by the Government to the development of motorway and railway interconnections that concern the Tyrrhenian side of our peninsula. In implementation of Decree-Law No 162 of 30 December 2019 and in compliance with the decisions taken by the European Court of Justice, the Ministry is proceeding to the revision of the concessionary relationship with the concessionaire, Tirrenic Motorway Company (SAT). In order to ensure the rebalancing of economic and financial conditions and to accelerate the signing of the new Convention, the budget law for 2022 provided for the provision of a public contribution of a total of EUR 200 million for the period 2022-2026. For the purpose of recognising that contribution, SAT shall submit, by 31 January 2022 (i.e. in a few weeks' time) an economic and financial plan drawn up in accordance with the regulatory framework established by the Transport Regulatory Authority. As regards the amount of the contribution to be actually recognised to the concessionary company, it has been foreseen that the same will be determined at the outcome of the verification by the Ministry, in the context of the evaluation of the proposed economic-financial plan submitted by the aforementioned company, of the attainment of the conditions of equilibrium and tariff sustainability of the concession. In order to reduce the time of realization of the intervention road Tarquinio-San Pietro in Palazzi has also been authorized the purchase by the company ANAS of the projects elaborated from the SAT relative to the aforementioned participation, allocating to this purpose the amount of 36,5 million euros. Moreover, it has been previewed the assumption from the managing director of ANAS in the role of extraordinary commissioner, in order to be able to proceed quickly to the intense activities. As for the project of the Tyrrhenian railway, I represent that RFI has in course participations of potenziamento performance between La Spezia and Genoa, let alone of renewal of the technologies on the entire Tyrrhenian itinerary between Genoa and Rome. In addition, RFI has announced its intention to carry out specific feasibility studies aimed at verifying the possibility of speeding up certain sections of this line. In this way, it will be possible to allocate the funds within the RFI programme contract. Finally, regarding the connections between Genoa, Pisa and Rome via Firenze, RFI has communicated that interventions of rapidization are being carried out in the routes between Pisa and Florence, that will allow to obtain substantial reductions of the journey time. Evidently, with regard to rolling stock, the ETR 1000 model trains for construction and performance characteristics are intended for use on existing high-speed lines. Nevertheless, we will consider the possibility to propose to Trenitalia the use of these trains also on the Tyrrhenian line.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u37	Senator Mallegni may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, on the last issue of the ETR1000 last year, thanks to a request from myself, an experiment was carried out. During the summer two ETRs were placed in the morning and two ETRs in the afternoon, obviously at the wrong times. It seems that there has been someone who has done it on purpose, but certainly not those in this House today. The functionality is definitely guaranteed; you have to see if there is a bit of will on the part of RFI. I am satisfied with the purchases of SAT projects by ANAS and this is extremely important. You touched on the issue of speeding up the routes between Pisa and Florence, then between the coast and Florence, which is another of the significant elements also for the two airport poles (the Vespucci and the Galileo Galilei). The other issue is the extreme attention on 31 January for the presentation by SAT. We're all waiting for this moment to close the 200 million game. Thank you and I am extremely satisfied with the answer you have given us today and taking up a question related to what was said earlier about the rest of business and transport, I remember that 50 million tourist bus refreshment is still suspended last year and the ban has not yet come out. I would therefore invite you, in the blackberries of your availability, which is always maximum and total, to make us pay attention from the offices, because the businesses of the tourist buses, which have suffered so much, are waiting for this kind of refreshment. Thank you and wish you and your Ministry good work. We will always be in contact in the general interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u39	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-395.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 18 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.04 a.m.
