ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2416. The rapporteur, Senator Laniece, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u5	Mr President, the draft law No 2416 of the initiative of Senator Saponara comes before the House, which I thank, approved by the 7th Permanent Commission, public education, cultural heritage, on 10 March. The measure aims to recognize the Regio theatre of Parma as a national monument. It now consists of two articles. In the course of its examination, the Commission approved Article 1, under which the Teatro Regio di Parma is declared a national monument in the original text, and introduced Article 2, which provides for the financial variance of the measure in question, in order to transpose the condition, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, contained in the opinion given by the Committee on Budgets. The declaration of cultural interest, which is recognized to the things of witness value or express an identity and civic connection of distinctive and exceptional significance, constitutes a fair recognition of Parliament towards a cultural asset of absolute value. The Royal Theatre, originally the Ducal Theatre, was built by the will of the Duchess Maria Luigia d'Hapsburg Lorraine, second wife of the emperor Napoleon Bonaparte, who ruled the Duchy of Parma, Piacenza and Guastalla from 1816 to 1847; lover of music and singing, noting that the old Ducal Theatre, founded in 1689, was inadequate to the needs of the city, urged the construction of a new, more modern building. Theatre in neoclassical style, with the façade characterized by an Ionian colonnade and a large thermal window in the upper part, was originally intended to accommodate the most varied genres of entertainment: from opera to dance, poetry and the most diverse forms of art. Of particular value is the clock that since 1829 marks the time of works and concerts and that thanks to a long restoration in 2018 is back to work. Since its inauguration, the Teatro Regio di Parma has been the witness and protagonist of the crucial changes that invest the melodrama during The nineteenth and the next century, from the end of the epoch linked to the name of the great composer Gioachino Rossini to the supremacy of the Verdi repertoire, from the opening of French and German experiences to the Italian work of Mascagni, Leoncavallo and Puccini. Having said that, the bill in title arises from the consideration of the importance of the cultural heritage that the Theatre represents and is ideally connected to the declaration of national monument of the birthplace of the great master Giuseppe Verdi, in Busseto, recognized by law 3 February 1901, n. 26. Both of these places, in fact, have had a significant significance in the life of the teacher. The declaration of a national monument aims to recognize the importance of the Teatro Regio, of the theatre and artistic activity that takes place in it and not only from the artistic point of view, but also in social terms, an aspect highlighted particularly by the limitations imposed by the pandemic. As regards the declaration of national monument, it is recalled that Article 10 (3) (d) of the Code of Cultural Heritage, amended in 2017, introduced an administrative procedure whereby the declaration of cultural interest of an asset may also include the declaration of national monument. For the code, the declaration of cultural interest bears witness to a particularly important interest in the things to which it refers, related to their reference to political, military, literature, art, science, technology, industry and culture in general, or as evidence of the identity and history of public, collective or religious institutions. This declaration of cultural interest may also include the declaration of a national monument, if - as already mentioned - the same things are also of witness value or express an identity and civic connection of distinctive and exceptional significance. Before 2017, the code did not provide for a specific procedure to be put in place, by restricting itself to providing, in Article 54, that they are inalienable, such as cultural property, property declared as national monuments under the legislation at the time in force, without prejudice, in Article 129, to the laws specifically relating to national monuments. In recent years some decrees of the President of the Republic have been issued: between 2003 and 2008 national monuments have been declared the Cemetery of the victims of the Vajont, in Longarone, the ancient Area of St. Peter. Finally, in the province of Caserta, and the Island of Santo Stefano. In this regard, however, it should be pointed out that there have also been several declarations of national monuments approved with provisions of legislative rank. They are remembered in particular: Law No. 64 of 2014, which declared a national monument to the Palladian Basilica of Vicenza; Law No. 207 of 2016 which declared a national monument to the House of Gramsci in Ghilarza; after the recalled changes to the code of cultural goods, Law No. 213 of 2017 which declared a national monument to the House of Matteotti in Fratta Polesine; Law No. 65 of 5 July 2019, with which the bridge over the Brenta called Ponte Vecchio di Bassano was declared a national monument; and Law No. 20 of 2022 with which the former prison camp of Servigliano was declared a national monument. It is also noted that the Senate recently approved bill No. 2166 for the declaration of national monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento, which is now being examined by the Chamber. Finally, I mention my personal memory of the Teatro Regio in Parma. As I said in the Commission, I had the honour of directing my choir on a stage that saw the representation of the greatest musical works and the greatest performers. To conclude, I stress that they are all small and short initiatives from the legislative point of view, but they have the merit of enhancing and further promoting the immense treasure of architectural and cultural beauties that make our country a unique place in the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u6	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Pending the expiry of the sitting of 20 minutes, as provided for in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.42 p.m. and resumed at 9.52 p.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u9	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the city of Parma is considered one of the most beautiful in Italy, a true jewel in the crown of Emilia-Romagna. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs. His appointment as Italian Capital of Culture 2021 certainly represented a significant step in the history of this city, which has always been in balance between past history and propensity to innovation and the future. In these months Parma has become a great and significant laboratory of art, history and culture, involving its classic artistic places in a new and modern key to reading. Among the places that most represent the city of Parma is certainly the Teatro Regio, of which today, with this provision, we ask for the recognition of a national monument. I believe that this recognition represents the natural continuation of the path undertaken precisely with the appointment of Parma as the Italian capital of culture last year. The Teatro Regio is one of the many works built during the thirty years of the Duchy of Maria Luigia d'Hapsburg Lorraine, which gave the city a mark at the height of the great European capitals of the time, which still distinguishes it today. It was one of the places where important pages of the history of the city and its territory have been written, from the great musical events linked to the Verdi opera tradition to other representations that have left a mark in the society of this city and its territory. The recognition of a national monument is not an end in itself, because it concerns not only the artistic and cultural heritage represented by this important theatre, but also the symbolic meaning that we want to attribute to it. The recognition of a theatre like that of Parma is a signal to reaffirm the importance of theatre and more generally of the world of culture and arts, especially in these two years when these activities have necessarily suffered significant setbacks, in the light of the measures taken to cope with the pandemic emergency. Such recognition becomes even more important at a time certainly crucial for the city of Parma, which is preparing to welcome the Verdi Festival. A Festival that, with its 22nd edition, is ready to offer a proposal of great philological and scientific accuracy in the rediscovery of the authentic Verdi, bringing his works back to the will, thought and original musical dictation. In essence, this is a truly unique opportunity to enhance the Verdi tradition of the city and its lyrical workers, in the first place the choir of the Teatro Regio that cannot therefore risk having a marginal role in this important festival. For these reasons, I preannounce the vote in favour of the measure under consideration by the Italian Group Viva-PSI and I thank the rapporteurs, the members of the Commission, my President Nencini and the Government again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u12	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this measure by the Brothers of Italy Group, which has already spoken in a positive way in the Commission. The Teatro Regio of Parma represents a part of that heritage of our nation that identifies it as the most beautiful and rich in the world. The Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage, led by President Nencini, has demonstrated, in these years of legislature, that it has the capacity to recognize itself and find itself, regardless of political belongings, when the centre is placed the identity value of our culture. Just as on other occasions (I think of the measures on Pistoia Blues Festival, at the first signature of our Senator La Pietra, and on the Arch of Traiano di Benevento), Brothers of Italy confirms its sensitivity and ability, albeit a force of opposition to this Government, to never be opposed to the interest of Italians and to the valorization of the identities of our territories that, all together, contribute to represent our nation; a nation that, despite everything, still represents a point of reference especially for culture at world level. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the proposer, Mr Saponara. I am sure that on many other initiatives there will be the same spirit aimed at the affirmation of a principle that for us is perennial and immutable: beauty is a fragment of eternity that helps us to live. For these reasons, I repeat that the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on this measure will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u15	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this measure, which contains the declaration of a national monument of the Teatro Regio di Parma, in the knowledge that this passage may seem distonic and distant from the scope of the story in which we are immersed (i.e. conflict, international issues, the economy and matters relating to the material conditions of people). At most the one under consideration may seem a secondary measure, however, to look well, so it is not, because declaring national monument a theatre like that of Parma means recognizing not only the beauty of the good in itself, but also the value of the memory it expresses and that it is always a collective memory not only of a territory but - precisely because national monument - of an entire country and a national community. Regarding the dramatic events in which we are immersed, there is a scene, among the many, that struck me in these weeks of conflict. I am referring to the scene that shows Ukrainian citizens and citizens who in the major cities of that country, on the eve of the bombings, have thought well to provide security not only for themselves and their loved ones through the construction of shelters and everything that could serve to shelter them, but even material of the main monuments of the major Ukrainian cities. I was very impressed by this, because it was obviously a matter of protecting not the material good, but the meaning and idea of a collective memory. Every people, every nation, every history has to defend its values through symbols that are material, but that become immaterial in their precipitation in the dimension of collective memory. In this case too, we are faced with a fact of such magnitude. The Theatre was inaugurated on May 16, 1829 with the opera "Zaira" by Maestro Vincenzo Bellini on libretto by Felice Romani; moreover, a work that in that debut was not very successful, as happened to many works that later became very famous and important over time. This statement makes a couple at the end with that of a national monument made in the early century by law 3 February 1901, n. 26, of the birthplace of Giuseppe Verdi in Busseto. In fact, both are symbolic places for Giuseppe Verdi and their interweaving is indissoluble, to say, once more, that both we are facing something that concerns the value of a territory, the biographies that have crossed it, but certainly also something that means a lot to an entire country. For this reason it may be secondary - as far as I have probably said the measure is not - but it is certainly something that the citizens of Parma will be proud of and of which perhaps we too should be proud that this step is being taken. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u18	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, even the Democratic Party Group today considers it important to proceed with the adoption of the law that allows it to consider the Teatro Regio di Parma as a national monument. The national monuments, in most cases, represent a testimony of the past that our nation has an interest in keeping alive. In this case, however, we have a living place, a place that lives in the everyday life of our time, which testifies to the roots of our country from the point of view not only of the stones, the monument, a piece of history, but also of the fabric, cultural production and creativity of our territory. I think it is therefore an important symbolic fact; not only a monument of the past time, but a living place of the city of Parma and - I would say - the whole Nation. In the Teatro Regio di Parma there are many important facts in the Italian culture. Let's just think about the Verdi celebrations and how much the Teatro Regio di Parma has meant to the history of Italian music. However, I believe that there is also another element that must be emphasized at such a difficult and complicated time that we are living. We often wonder how peace can be promoted. In order to promote peace one must necessarily pass through culture, art and beauty and, if we want to find today an additional reason to approve this bill, for us in Italy there is also such meaning. At such a serious time that we are living, we are telling the world that art and culture must be promoted, recognised and valued; they are an important element in promoting the culture of peace and peaceful coexistence in communities. Going to the theater then, at a time like the current one, after two years of closing the cultural spaces, and restarting, recognizing a theater the status of national monument, I think it is another aspect to emphasize. If so many times in Parliament we are dealing with things that can be considered a little detached from the context and life that we are living on the whole, I think that today we are doing something very centered, which has so many meanings and so much value. It is a matter of recognizing not only a national monument, but also something intimately linked to the life of our country: that is, culture as a witness to our roots and as a promotion of peace and community life that we want to affirm not only in Italy, but throughout the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u21	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary Lucia Borgonzoni, ladies and gentlemen, it is also important for the Forza Italia Group to be able to speak today in this House about a measure which - as I understand from the explanations of vote too - represents a moment of unity directed towards the culture of this extraordinary and wonderful country that nature has placed at the centre of the Mediterranean. We are between the North and the South of the world; we represent 50 percent of the land that has emerged and 83 percent of the world's population and have been able in time to achieve sublime and unimaginable things: just think that we possess more than 70 percent of the artistic beauties. To recognize today with this provision the Teatro Regio di Parma as a national monument is very important, because Parma is not only a city of great and extraordinary beauty, but has a cultural and musical tradition all its own, very particular. Suffice it to say that he already had a theatre from 1689, the Ducal Theatre. When, after the restoration, in 1816 came Maria Luigia, Duchess of Parma, Piacenza and Guastalla - will reign until her death in 1847 - brought a breath of culture and love. For this reason we cannot but be in love not only with this beauty, but with the whole of Italy, which is a paradise of immeasurable beauty. Maria Luigia, who came from a world of very high culture - she had been educated at the court of Vienna and had an extraordinary love for ballet and music - had then an intuition, understanding that the theater of 1689 could not satisfy the needs of the Parmesan population facing culture. He decided on the realization of this extraordinary work, begun in 1821 - think that last year the two hundred years were celebrated - and ended in 1829 with the opening of the Theatre. But Parma really represents an extraordinary beauty and you really have to have, even as politicians, the humility to face these things with that necessary delicacy when you caress such important themes. I had the adventure in these days to meet two important people, Angela Spocci, who was superintendent at the Teatro Lirico di Cagliari and president of the Teatro Regio di Parma, and Massimo Tannoia, first cello of the Regio di Parma, an extraordinary figure, who still collaborates with San Carlo di Napoli, with La Fenice di Venezia and Rome. Of course, the Teatro Regio in Parma is certainly not the most important theatre in Italy, and we have said so - we know that there are important theatres like La Scala in Milan and La Fenice in Venice - but it is definitely a place of excellence for the great Italian opera tradition. It is a theatre that hosts 1,800 places - imagine what it meant at the time - cost an exorbitant amount, but that still shows that culture is one of the most extraordinary and important investments that can be made. When investing a euro on culture there is a multiplier, which is 4. I believe that the Teatro Regio of Parma, which comes from so far away, has multiplied even more the possibility of revenue for the city itself. At first there was a very special climate: just think that performances were held not only of lyrical music, ballet and declamation of poetry, but even of funambolism, shows in which - for example - demonstrations of gymnastic or scientific evidence were given, even of illusionism. In those years when there was neither cinema nor, of course, television, it had therefore become a moment of culture. Today it is very nice to think that the Regio of Parma has this role. Its beauty, in the neoclassical style, in its yellow façade, stands out in a wonderful city. Among other things, in this theatre were performed extraordinary characters of world music, from the divine Callas, to Luciano Pavarotti, José Carreras. I want to remember Mario Del Monaco, Carlo Bergonzi, Renata Tebaldi, Katia Ricciarelli, the Modena Mirella Freni and Rajna Kabaivanska, famous names of world music. There is a very nice episode that I would like to tell in this House. At the end of the 1800s there was an economic crisis - remember these times - and then it was decided not to finance theaters. They began to close the most important Italian theatres; we were in 1892, in a crisis that lasted until 1894. In Parma there was a rebellion: the citizens of Parma made a referendum - imagine then sensitivity, to say what Parmigianità is - to open the theater; a theatre that has a unique and extraordinary atmosphere. Who will have the chance to visit him, will see not a chandelier but an astrolampo realized in Paris, shortly after 1850, which gives a special illumination. I would like to recall the dream that the two protagonists of the history of the Regio di Parma I mentioned at the beginning would like to realize, which would really lead to a unique in Europe: to succeed in having the declaration of national monument also for the Teatro Magnani di Fidenza and Giuseppe Verdi di Busseto. [[Applause]] If we were to succeed in this operation, we would have a unicum in Europe and it would really be something extraordinarily important. Moreover, some time ago, together with over 40 Senators of the Group to which I belong, I signed a project for the revitalization of symphonic orchestras in Italy. I would just like to remind you that in Italy we have only about thirty symphonic orchestras, while in other countries there are even more than one hundred. We must invest in culture and for this reason I believe it is important that we demonstrate today: an Assembly united and close to the great interests of national culture, particularly that of Parma, which represents something unique and sublime also in the Italian panorama. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u24	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the declaration of the Teatro Regio di Parma as a national monument aims to achieve a prestigious goal for Parma and its cultural, historical and musical tradition. And this is because the Teatro Regio is not only a neoclassical building of great artistic and architectural value, built at the beginning of the nineteenth century, but it is much more. So let's go see why it's so important to Parma. If we trace its history over time, we see that the Teatro Regio was conceived within a program of redevelopment and valorization during the government of Maria Luigia of Habsburg, Duchess of the Duchy of Parma, Piacenza and Guastalla, from 1816 to 1847. The Duchess wanted to make Parma a city worthy of the European capitals; a very high ambition, pursued by an enlightened sovereign as she was that, with her good government, she could give Parma a new face, of which even today Parmesan and tourists can enjoy. And if we think that this plan was conceived two hundred years ago, with results that gave Parma the face of a city of high civilization and culture, today we can do nothing but take example, trying to be forward-looking and with our actions and decisions, as well as with the means at our disposal, to realize in our territories works that enhance them and can be enjoyed by the citizens: the Teatro Regio, therefore, as an example of good governance to which we have the duty to render honor and inspire us. The Teatro Regio, moreover, since its inauguration in 1829, has been one of the places where important pages of the history of Parma and its territory have been written. And all this must not be lost or forgotten, because it is always being attached to our origins and to our history that we can value our present. In it were celebrated musical events of the highest level, thanks above all to that opera tradition linked to Giuseppe Verdi, which precisely in Parma and in the native Busseto finds its maximum commemoration. Let's not forget that the Teatro Regio di Parma is the witness and protagonist of the crucial changes that invest the melodrama during the nineteenth and the following century, from the end of the epoch linked to the name of Rossini, to the supremacy of the Verdi repertoire, from the opening to the French and German experiences, to the Italian work of Mascagni, Leoncavallo and Puccini. However, even in recent history there have been important moments of social life, as when outside, on December 26, 1968, on the occasion of the inauguration of the opera season, there was a tearing popular and especially youthful protest, the daughter of the great protest in place in those times of change. When we say Teatro Regio national monument, therefore, we do not just want to affirm and pay homage to the artistic and architectural importance of this beautiful building that overlooks one of the streets most frequented by Parmesan, but we want to say much more. Therefore, we have a duty to make the most of it, also as an expression of Parma's potential in the music field. Just as the Verdi Festival is an important showcase that Parma has been able to build to enhance its Verdi tradition, thanks to its lyric workers, in the same way the recognition as a national monument by Parliament goes in the direction of the maximum valorization of the Theatre as the glory of Parma, its history and its cultural and musical tradition. We can also continue by saying that the Teatro Regio national monument is also the continuation of a journey undertaken with Parma Italian capital of culture; I would say a sort of icing on the cake from which it is necessary to start with events and initiatives of international scope, putting at the center its main and historical theatre and its workers. If it is true that among the driving engines of the economy of our country and cities like Parma there is tourism, then it is very important to take hold of our cultural heritage in all its forms, valorizing all aspects to make truly alive and driving that tourism that otherwise, without culture, would remain an empty box. The Teatro Regio is part of this heritage, both as it is visible from an artistic and architectural point of view, as well as from what it represents. Having listed some of the symbolic aspects that it brings with it, I would like to conclude with some reference to its artistic and architectural characteristics, not because it is of secondary importance, but because I think it is always necessary to go beyond the tangible beauty to grasp much more. The construction began in 1821 on a project by the court architect Nicola Bettoli and the Theatre was inaugurated on May 16, 1829 with "Zaira" by Vincenzo Bellini. The Theatre is in neoclassical style, the façade is characterized by an Ionic colonnade and a large terminal window that opens in the upper part. After passing the atrium, you enter the room of the foyer marked by two rows of four columns; a staircase leads to the hall of the reduced, where was the throne of Maria Luigia. Through the portal of honour, you enter the heart of the building, the hall, with the audience, four orders of stages and the loggione, dominated by the ceiling painted by Giovan Battista Borghesi. The curtain, one of the few to come to us, is also the work of the Borghesi. The appearance of the hall today is very different from the original. Girolamo Magnani, who was among other things a decorator that Verdi often wanted at his side as a set designer, was commissioned by Carlo III of Bourbon to renew the robe of the Teatro Regio according to the neo-Renaissance style. The acoustic chamber, painted by Giuseppe Carmignani, one of the rare examples that survived the use and the time, resumes the decorations of the stages and consists of hemp panels mounted on wooden frames telescopically modular to serve the most diverse orchestral formations. Originally - this is a curiosity - the Theatre was intended to host performances of various kinds, from funambolism to gymnastics, numbers with trained animals, scientific demonstrations, illusionism and also various curiosities. Of great value is the clock, which marks the time of works and concerts that have followed on the stage of the Theatre since 1829. In 2018, after a year of restoration, the historic watch of the Teatro Regio, created by Antonio Barozzi, came back to work. This brief description makes evident the artistic and architectural value of the Teatro Regio di Parma, but - as I have said several times in this speech - his declaration as a national monument wants to be not only the exaltation of a beautiful neoclassical architecture, but also and above all the valorization of what it represents for Parma and what it can represent Parma in Europe and in the world, if we can value it as it deserves. It should be remembered that together with the birthplace of Giuseppe Verdi, already declared a national monument, and the Teatro Magnani di Fidenza and the Teatro Giuseppe Verdi di Busseto, it can aim to become an international unicum. I would like to end by thanking my colleagues from the Culture Committee, the President, Senator Riccardo Nencini, and the Senator and rapporteur Albert Laniece, who have joined me in this bill, and of course the Government, today represented by the Undersecretary Lucia Borgonzoni. I thank my colleagues who have spoken and shared with me this statement of the Teatro Regio as a national monument. I am very pleased that the Assembly will vote in favour of this bill and, as Parmesan, I invite everyone to visit and above all to live the Teatro Regio di Parma, an excellent symbol of parmesanity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u27	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bestowal of the title of national monument to the Teatro Regio di Parma, one of the most important theatres of our country's tradition, is undoubtedly a precious recognition for the city of Parma, already the capital of culture, for its inhabitants, for the whole Emilia-Romagna Region and for all of us, because opera and music are a world heritage, global and universal. Therefore, all of us today must rejoice in this recognition. I thank Senator Saponara for this bill, but also for having remembered the historical origins of the Theatre, which - as my colleague Laforgia has also mentioned - was inaugurated on May 16th, 1829 with the staging of the "Zaira" by Vincenzo Bellini. Since then, the history of Italian melodrama has passed through this institution, which has become the center of the opera tradition of our country. As Senator Saponara has already mentioned, among the peculiarities of this Theatre there is definitely the acoustic chamber, painted by Giuseppe Carmignani, but it is not the only one: there are many architectural and artistic riches that decorate and make the Theatre a building of historical and architectural value that deserves, even for this reason, the recognition of a national monument. I would like to make a brief historical raid on the legislation of the national monument, because on the site monumentinationali.it we learn that most of them were promoted during the Kingdom of Italy to safeguard a heritage initially linked mainly to libraries, which were ecclesiastical, a heritage that risked disappearing due to the difficulties of those who had possession or willingness to guarantee its maintenance. With these operations, therefore, the Kingdom of Italy and then the Republic prevented that they were sold to private individuals or collectors structures or materials that were and are intended for public sharing, as a national heritage. We are really in another era, if we think about how today, instead, we are risking slipping into a slope that sees more and more the privatization of the management of our artistic and cultural heritage. So, ladies and gentlemen, let this be a warning to remind us what inspired this statement and what we are obliged to guarantee as Members of this Republic. The first proclamation of a monument of national history - think - is of May 6, 1866, with the protection of the Kingdom of Palazzo Madama of Turin. See, then, how culture and history teach us how close we are to our past [[Applause]] and how from the past we must look to the future thanks to culture, which teaches us much of our present, because culture is peace. I thank Senator Laforgia for remembering how important it is today to approve this bill. Among the many images that come to us from Ukraine, we certainly cannot forget those of young musicians who have come to the streets to reaffirm how culture can be the vehicle of peace and union between peoples. Hence the importance of cultural diplomacy and not to bring down culture in the field of war. [[Applause]] Culture must remain outside the warfield. We must build bridges and peace through culture. Another historical moment taught us the importance of culture: the pandemic. There has been a significant increase in the consumption of online artistic and cultural content during the pandemic, because culture care, music care, and the pandemic has taught us this. Why can we still boast this heritage today? We can do this because there are people, professionals who care for us through their profession and care for and protect our artistic and cultural heritage: they help to enhance and preserve it, help us manage it, help us to make sure that we can all take advantage of it in its intangible wealth, which is the richness of knowledge that elevates us and makes us who we are [[Applause]] And it is an intangible wealth because, through our creativity, we can boast in the world of our made in Italy. When we go into the world, the most beautiful business card is our culture; the most powerful tool of meeting and soft power is the opera, and we must remember it. Then professionals must be protected and valued. I tell you all this because I hope that, with the inauguration of the new administration, we will return to reason on the story of the Choir of the Teatro Regio: a story that deserves attention because the Choir of the Regio exists thanks to this cooperative that sings and lends its high professionalism within the Regio. The choir master, Martino Faggiani, complained about the exclusion of the Choir of the Regio during the opening evening last February, and in general complained about a poor consideration of the artistic masses. Then we hope that in June this story will find a solution, because professionals deserve it, as they generally deserve to have a stable job within institutions that promote the culture of opera and symphonic music. I don't go any further, because today is a day when we have to be happy. Then allow me to greet you through a forced force, quoting Verdi: "Let's leave in the happy glasses, that beauty inflore". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u28	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u29	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2317. She asked the rapporteur to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u30	Mr President, I have an obligation and a duty to clarify that, in the light of a very recent measure by the Government, there has been a need to intervene on the text, defined by the Commission, of the articles of the draft law under consideration, with particular reference to the rule by which the body responsible for examining and evaluating the draft law is identified. I therefore call for the draft legislation to be referred back to the Commission and for it to be kept in the drawing-up room so that the rule can be changed, and for authorisation to convene the Commission immediately, by supplementing its agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u31	The rapporteur therefore proposes a suspensive issue and calls for the draft legislation to be referred back to the Commission. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak on the proposal to refer draft law No 2317 to the Commission for ten minutes. Since no one is asking to speak, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question put forward by Senator De Lucia. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1571-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies will be the subject of the deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator La Mura, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the fourth reading of the SalvaMare bill. Today should be the last reading of the measure, which we should finally approve. I am therefore excited and also honoured to be the rapporteur for the draft law under consideration, which will be voted on today, in order to finally become a law. At yesterday's sitting in the Committee on the Environment, the Environment, the Environment, the Members and the Members applauded after the adoption of the measure and, by looking at it, I caught the emotion in their eyes, for having unanimously voted on a project and for throwing a seed that will have to be developed and that stretches its hand to the sea, friend of all of us. There is emotion when we talk about the sea and it is the same emotion that we must feel today with regard to the bill under consideration. The measure regulates the recovery of waste at sea, in the lakes and in the lagoons and promotes their reuse, to stimulate the circular economy, in support not only of marine life, but also of the development of a more sustainable sea economy. The decree-law SalvaMare, so called with an evocative name, is a seed that we are throwing together at sea; it is a commitment to take care of it so that it does not wither. With the approval of this measure, the first commitment we ask the Government to approve the numerous implementing decrees contained in it even before the six months, since it has passed four years. We therefore seek to urge the Commission to implement the decrees, the most important of which is the end of waste, so that marine waste can be reused as secondary raw material. Another commitment we ask the seafarers and fishermen: in fact I want to remember that it will be allowed to the commanders of ships and the simple drivers of ships to recover the waste at sea and, once on land, to bring them to the harbour facility of collection. This will be allowed to the fishermen themselves. The important novelty introduced - I would like to remind you - is that the collected waste is considered not more special, but urban, so it introduces an incredible simplification, which will really protect the sea, because these waste will no longer be thrown into the sea. In addition, there is the important measure relative to the bestowal in the harbour areas for the collection, that moreover will be free, since the cost will be divided among all of us through a specific component of the tax on the waste. We have provided non-economic rewards for fishermen who are engaged in waste collection; we have not forgotten to invest in the future and we have done so by introducing the rule that schools of every order and grade will be able to carry out educational activities on the importance of the conservation of the marine environment, through specific dissemination routes. Extremely important for the protection of the coastal marine ecosystem are the provisions introduced for the insertion of the desalination plants in the list of polluting activities, for which is foreseen the assessment of environmental impact state; it is also important the forecast of a deadline for the adoption of the decree for the identification of the criteria relative to the containment of the environmental impact of the aquaculture and fish farming plants, because for sixteen years has never been launched the implementing decree and consequently we have destroyed our backdrops. That's enough! We all want to save the sea and for this reason we are putting this seed that must be fed, because otherwise it will die. Again, there are measures to promote waste collection campaigns, so that all citizens, associations and entrepreneurs can help our sea breathe a little better than it is now, but above all they are aware of the unsustainableness of our life on earth, because we produce more waste than we can dispose of, so we are suffocating too. The draft law was passed in the Chamber at the end of April with some amendments to Articles 1 and 2, while Article 12, resulting from an amendment by the rapporteur, the only one I had tabled, was deleted. However, I accepted this change without reply, because I wanted the measure to go into port. In particular, I repeat that in the course of the examination near the Chamber of Deputies the decree-law has undergone modifications, regarding only two articles, times to update the normative recalls relative to the legislative decree n. 182 of 2003, making reference to the dispositions in the meantime introduced from the legislative decree n. 197 of 2021 for the transposition of the directive relative to the harbour facilities of collection for the conferral of the refusals of the ships, than therefore now they can collect also marine refusals or those coming from lakes, rivers and lagoons. In addition, Article 12 on the provisions on microfibres has been deleted. Finally, with specific reference to Article 6, I would remind you that the same applies to measures for the collection of floating waste in rivers, establishing, in order to reduce the impact of marine pollution resulting from them, that the district authorities introduce in their planning acts experimental measures in the waterways, aimed at the capture of such floating waste. In this regard, paragraph 2 of Article 6 entrusts to the Mite the start of a three-year experimental program for the recovery of plastics in rivers, which should have started on 31 March 2022, date which had already been identified in the text approved to the Senate last November, which was not modified during the last reading by the Chamber of Deputies and which will therefore be before the date of final approval of the measure. In the course of the debate on the environment, the Environment Committee noted first of all that it was impossible to amend Article 6, because of the limits imposed by Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, since this article had not been amended during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. In view of this, the Commission, while aware of the authorising nature of the term referred to above, nevertheless considered it necessary to highlight the problem and, through the presentation of a special agenda, signed by all and accepted by the Government, undertook the latter to intervene, once approved the law saves the sea, through appropriate legislative interventions, in order to innovate the aforementioned provision in order to resolve the reported regulatory inconsistency relating to the date for the start of the experimental program. I'm done, Mr. President. I reserve the right to submit the full text of my report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the work carried out by the President of the 13th Commission (Environment), who examined the measure in the drafting, and by all the parliamentary groups, who did not fail to support it, sometimes thoughtful and proactive, but never critically critical of the content of this draft government law. The work, sometimes exhausting and long in the times of approval, has also led to textual imperfections linked to time terms now past, on which is the understanding of the Dicastery that I represent coming back, updating them as soon as possible. However, this was formalised on an agenda accepted by the Government, as the rapporteur said. The protection of the sea, rivers, ecosystem and biodiversity is an integral part of this bill. I will focus on three points, which I consider to be very important and vital for the ecological transition, of which my Dicastery intends to be the protagonist today. The first is the protection of the ecosystem and biodiversity, understood as a premise and starting point for any prospect of economic and social development. There is no ecological transition unless we are able to defend our vital ecosystem from our seas. Secondly, the ecological transition has its young roots in the rational use of its resources, which are becoming less and more expensive. Circular economy means tackling this environmental, economic and social impasse, guiding us more towards its natural evolution, represented by circular bioeconomy. In this respect, we once again stress in this bill the importance of the end of life of waste, whether accidentally caught at sea or collected in a voluntary manner, by associating collection operations with those of material recovery from them, where possible. Third and final point: environmental education in schools makes pupils aware of the importance of preserving the environment, in particular the sea and inland waters, as well as of the correct way in which waste is delivered. This, together with the aforementioned regulatory framework that allows the cleaning campaigns at sea, characterizes the text that we are going to vote for definitively. The measure was intended to call SalvaMare because it presupposes a situation of alarm easily perceived by all of us for the sea and our rivers contaminated by waste of all kinds and by so much plastic. Through environmental education, not just in schools, we must avoid that our precious, vital and rich waters of extraordinary biodiversity are used as invisible landfills in everyone's eyes. Environmental education serves to create people who are aware and well aware of the risks they are taking for themselves and the environment in which they live. We're in desperate need of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u35	I note that the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law in question have been received - and are distributed - and will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 3 to 11 have not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. As a result of the deletion of Article 12 when examining the measure in the Chamber of Deputies, the subsequent articles changed the numbering. Articles 12 to 16, in the new numbering, will not be put to the vote, as they will not be amended by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u38	MORONESE (Mist). Mr President, I immediately and firmly declare my vote in favour of this measure. I thought in the collective imagination this provision had already been approved, but, alas, it is not. The bill has had a long journey, not because it is not shared, but because Parliament has been involved in these two years in the decrees concerning the contrast to the pandemic by Covid-19 and the aid to citizens and businesses made necessary by the negative economic consequences. At last today in the Senate we are proceeding with the final vote and that is what matters. The importance of the SalvaMare law has been reiterated several times in the Chamber and also outside, as it is not only an environmental rule, but above all a law of civilization. Now more than ever we need to give a strong, determined and, above all, concrete signal in the direction of environmental protection and public health. In this final phase I would like to thank once again the former Environment Minister Sergio Costa, who submitted the bill to us and believed in it. I also want to thank the Undersecretary Fontana and the whole Government for following us in the work of the Commission and supporting the measure. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the measure, Senator La Mura, for having well coordinated the proposals of the parliamentary groups, as well as all my colleagues in the Commission's territory, environment, environmental goods, which I have the honour to chair, because the measure has always seen the favourable opinion of everyone and we have worked in a very cooperative way. Finally, I would like to thank the environmental associations not only for their support for the Commission's work, but also for their communication outside Parliament. I just have to thank you and wish everyone a good vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u41	ABATE (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Mr President, I will be brief because the measure before us has been so much discussed in Parliament and much awaited. This is a good measure (when the Italian Government still made good measures). I would like to point out that Italy has 8,000 kilometres of coastline and that its territorial waters are rich in biodiversity and represent one fifth of the Mediterranean Sea. We have 32 protected marine areas, 9 archipelagos, 27 smaller inhabited islands and 500 ports. That's wonderful. I'd like to say. On the other hand, there are 200,000 blue Italian companies that produce 3% of our Italian GDP. The marine ecosystem is important: it produces 50 percent of the oxygen we breathe and absorbs 30 percent of the CO2 produced. It is precisely for this reason that it is important to keep him healthy and to preserve him from any kind of pollution. There are of course major problems, including plastic, which is the protagonist of all the problems that the sea has. Every day there are so many waste spilling into the seas and oceans, polluting them more and more and endangering this very important ecosystem. The environmental consequences are catastrophic and under everyone's eyes; each of us has been able to see the so-called plastic islands that meet in the seas and oceans. This emergency of course does not concern all Italy, but the whole world and we want to hope that we, through the law at our examination, will be the leading state of the important protection of the seas and oceans. The so-called SalvaMare law that we are approving today allows ship commanders or simple boat drivers to recover waste at sea and, once on land, bring them to the port reception facility. As part of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, I travel around the ports and fishermen tell me that they collect so much waste and so much rubbish at sea, but many times, when they arrive in the ports, they are forced to throw back, because, being in accordance with the current rules of special waste, they find themselves bottled and do not know what to do. This problem has been solved by this law. In fact, once these wastes have arrived on the mainland, they will be brought into collection facilities that the municipalities will do at every port. If instead the boats or the ships are outside the harbour areas, it will be taken care of the municipalities to create points of management of these wastes in the vicinity of the places and the areas where the ships are docked. In addition, the master of the vessel or the driver of the vehicle landing in a small port, even a non-commercial port, will have to carry the accidentally caught waste to the port reception facilities integrated by the municipal waste management system. It must be stressed - and I say this to them here - that all this does not have an economic cost for fishermen. This is therefore a decisive step forward in safeguarding the sea, it is a law of civilization. Waste accidentally caught at sea or produced by fishing, as I said, is no longer considered special, but can be delivered as well as all other waste, rather than being thrown back to sea. The law is aimed primarily at combating the effects of climate change on health. In fact, in order to combat climate change it is also essential to keep this important ecosystem healthy, which, as we know, regulates fundamental mechanisms for the very existence of the planet. Not only that: the SalvaMare law will also determine the orientation and education of future generations, boys and girls to whom in the coming decades it will be the task of preserving the waters of our planet. For this reason, among the measures provided for by the law, there is also the promotion in schools of every order and grade, beginning with primary school, of educational activities aimed not only at raising awareness on the subject, but at creating in children, future young and future inhabitants of the planet, awareness and awareness of how important it is to preserve the planet. In concrete terms, the will of this law, alongside the protection of an important ecosystem, is to propose also within the schools informative routes regarding the correct practice of the delivery of waste, the recovery and reuse of consumer goods and the disposal of products at the end of the cycle. Finally, there should be no lack of lessons on reducing the use of plastic and on available re-use systems. I always support, on the basis of my few skills, that the evolution of society and the educational system must necessarily pass through the education and evolution of thought. As far as I am concerned, I am announcing and I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group. [[Applause from the CAL-A-PC-IDV Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u44	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. I will steal much less than the ten minutes at my disposal, because we have talked about this for a long time and very well. We have well understood the importance of this measure, which, as I have already said, is late, but it comes and even the further delay we are facing today was still necessary, because adapting to European legislation is indispensable for the law itself to have a good final outcome. We never talk too much about the need for a clean sea. We are also lucky and who speaks to you is lucky twice, because he lives in Sardinia, an island surrounded by the sea, where, thanks to the currents, the sea has kept extremely clean. However, we have to deal with the reality spread all over the world and also in the Mediterranean, in Sardinia, where we know that unfortunately a beached whale was found - which is then the symbol of the meaning of this law - in the stomach of which everything was found, including about one meter of corrugated for the wires of electricity, for a total of 23 kilograms of plastic. We do not deal with what this plastic produces: we are scandalized for this great quantity, but we do not think about the effects, which are the ones revealed about a month ago, when it emerged that unfortunately in the blood of human beings plastic particles have been found, obviously infinitesimal, the result of the ingestion of fish meat in which such infinitesimal particles are present. This obviously produces devastating damage, because it is absolutely harmful substances. It is therefore of great importance that this measure be taken from the point of view of the need to clean up the sea. I repeat: the Mediterranean is still, more or less, a happy area, if we think that in other parts of the Earth there are floating islands that have a greater extension of France, Germany and Spain put together. We can therefore have an idea of what plastic pollution is in the world. This measure, however, is very, very important also for another effect: it allows fishermen to become ecological operators of the sea, to recover those waste that sometimes, for fear of sanctions, are even thrown back into the sea or brought to shore hidden and it is not well known what happens. Today we give the license of ecological operators also to the fishermen, who will have the possibility to recover this material, not to throw it away and to confer it then to the points of collection that will have to be instituted in all the ports. That is the point of referral back to the House. It is also an extremely important measure for this reason, because it puts an end to a series of injustices that had been committed and averts further pollution, for the reasons I have just mentioned. The last effect is that of education and prevention. I often repeat that prevention is being looked at much more in our measures; there are issues that have been discussed for years and we have never done anything in the field of prevention. With this measure, however, we also carry out a work of raising awareness and education, especially towards the youngest, with the provision of appropriate measures. This leads us, in fact, to start a path of spreading education to environmentalism, cleanliness and anti-pollution. With this measure we finally come to something more concrete, which, once the process is started, I am sure will have absolutely positive effects. It will then be up to us to apply the rule properly and decently, so that we can really get to a clean sea throughout the Mediterranean. Therefore, I confirm the favorable vote of Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano on this measure, which we really consider very important. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u47	NASTERS (FdI). Mr President, according to UN estimates, every year plastic waste at sea is around 8 million tonnes. Of course, waste is only the tip of the iceberg. The sea is literally invaded by plastics, which then go to degrade and damage fish fauna. The objective of this bill, which we have talked a lot about in the Commissions, for almost two years now, is to contribute to the recovery of the ecosystem and to the promotion of the circular economy and, clearly, to the recovery of accidentally caught waste, as has been said before, for the cleaning of the sea. Finally, one of the important aspects is the awareness-raising of the community with the dissemination of behavioural models aimed at preventing the phenomenon of waste abandonment. Let us not forget that Italy is two thirds wet from the sea, so who better than us should have at heart the emergency of marine waste? Brothers of Italy like it very much when the projects are ambitious. They fascinate us much less when these projects, which in theory could be ambitious, do not make the most of their potential. This has certainly been a handicap of the bill to our examination, so to define it today saves the sea is a discreet exercise of political communication. Certainly, however, it does not represent reality and, above all, the truth. We could call this, as I have often said in the Commission, a "clean sea." We, precisely because we were aware of the importance of this measure, had tabled several amendments. To speed up the process, some of the amendments had been withdrawn. Brothers of Italy had tabled this amendment precisely to improve all the contradictions - and there are - within the bill. By the way, I would like to mention one important point, given the presence of Mr Undersecretary as well. In the budget law, the application of plastic tax was postponed to 2023. It should be understood, in the meantime, what is the government's orientation: plastic yes or plastic no? We must not always reason in a punitive logic through taxation, because this certainly does not help. I would also like to say to my colleagues that the legislation in place creates a great paradox, namely that fishermen have to pay for the disposal of waste at sea. We, on the other hand, had prepared an amendment in the Commission, together with my colleague Mr Iannone, to establish an incentive, especially for fish farmers, to facilitate the recovery of waste at sea. We had proposed the figure of 40 euros for every quintal of waste: money recovered, but we were not heard. This is because, when serious solutions are proposed, they are clearly rejected. Instead of strengthening controls on those who discharge illegally at sea, as always, put costs on general taxation. An alternative system had to be found to cover the costs of managing waste recovered at sea. Why should cleanliness of the sea not fall within the strategic objective of the PNRR? In any case, it is said that it is necessary to raise awareness and that it is necessary to educate. What is said in this bill is that we must inform users and also the population. Let's do it, then, but seriously. If we really want to defend the issue of the environment, we must also be a little brave and, above all, forward-looking presidents in legislative measures. We hoped that this would be an opportunity to solve the problems of waste, for example those abandoned on the beaches or on the coasts, which are then sucked into the sea, but that was not the case. There is systematic talk of finding synergy and also a union with the productive world for the relaunch of environmental issues. We were deluded that it was the good time, but it didn't. For all these reasons, our vote will be a vote of abstention, because there has been a lack of foresight, but above all a strategy to be able to actually help, with this bill, so many people who needed it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u50	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, at last we have reached the last step - perhaps this is the fifth - of a draft law which, unfortunately, has encountered a number of obstacles, but which, in my opinion, is a due act, we can call it that. In fact, is it a due act, which takes on all the problems of our sea, which we have talked about so many times, and solves them? Absolutely not, but it makes a concrete contribution and puts in collaboration the institutions, the fishermen and those who care about the sea (I also think about the great work of the associations). The SalvaMare makes a contribution to taking a step forward in relation to a crucial issue. We do not realize how enormous and strong the pressure is on our sea, on the Mediterranean, how much climate change is profoundly changing (the rapporteur knows that) the ongoing processes that, if we continue to do nothing, risk being totally irreversible. Then there is the theme of plastics. We are not talking here about the gigantic island of waste that has been created (which is always thought of), but we must deal with what is happening in the Mediterranean, which is a very delicate sea, not only because all the countries that face it exert enormous pressure, but for the really great damage, as all studies say, of the impact of plastics and waste in particular on the Mediterranean. We still don't understand that everything we do to ecosystems comes back to us. We think we live in a world in which man can do, undo and manipulate, as if he were living on another planet, as if then the damage he produces to the environment did not have immediate returns. In this regard, when we talk about microplastics, we are fully aware of what is happening. I always take into consideration the studies that are continually published and I think of their meaning; microplastics have long entered the food chain, therefore in our body. I am also thinking of the discussions we have had to make every time for our role as political decision-makers and legislators, because it is up to us to put in place the instruments that serve to protect ecosystems and at the same time human health, which are closely related. However, we must always bear in mind that a great deal of biodiversity is being lost at sea. With this bill we simply make sure that fishermen can collect waste. That sounds silly. Instead, we needed a bill. Fishermen deserve it because the sea is what they absolutely want to preserve; perhaps not everyone does, but certainly most. I am thinking, for example, of how important it is to involve all small fishing and we are doing just that. Therefore, the main measure under discussion provides for the equivalent of accidentally caught waste to ship waste, thus giving it the legal possibility of being able to give it properly. In order to do this, a way must be put in place to involve a system that can provide incentives. Among other things, besides the damage, there was also the mockery, because the fishermen were collecting and then, if they gave, they could also be accused of abandoning waste: this was one of the absolutely incredible things that happen in our country. The draft law also provides for information campaigns, which are fundamental. Every time we talk about information and awareness campaigns, we think of something absolutely secondary. For the truth, I was very sorry (but I understand that) that the article on microfibres was expounded, because it was a way to make it clear that even what we wear and the choices we make have consequences; it was a way to make it clear that every citizen, in addition to the producers, can contribute. We have done so with all cosmetics, as well as in the battle that has been waged for the elimination of plastics within the products. From this point of view, we need information and awareness campaigns and we need to push the circular economy more and more. Of course, as I said in the preamble, this is not a draft law that resolves everything, but I think it was right of us, after all this work, for which I thank the President, the rapporteur and the members of the Commission, to put this fundamental, albeit small, contribution into the field. When we discuss climate change and its impact on ecosystems - unfortunately not very often in this House - it always seems that these are collateral phenomena and we still do not realize how fundamental and central these issues are. We are in a state of emergency and decisions must be taken, although I understand that they are not simple and on the contrary they can also be very complex, but we no longer have time. Just look at the latest data, about which I was talking to Senator Ferrazzi, who tells us that the Mediterranean is at the center of the emergency, has very serious problems related to rising temperatures and impacts. The problem does not concern the distant and exotic Oceans, but concerns us, it concerns the Mare Nostrum and therefore perhaps it would be advisable not to consider these issues as collateral, but as central, if we really want to give a future to our country, to the economy, to the well-being and to the life on the Planet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u53	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, Senator De Petris said very well that our great sea, the Mediterranean, which unites three continents and has been the cradle of extraordinary civilizations throughout humanity, is one of the most critical seas in the world. The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the Intergovernmental Group on Climate Change, a month ago on the state of climate change and its devastating consequences, focused on the Mediterranean in the coming years. This very important research body, the world's most esteemed and largest, made up of two United Nations bodies, has established that if we continue with the release into the sea and the release into the atmosphere of harmful substances as we are doing today, in 2100 the Mediterranean sea will rise by 100 centimeters compared to the beginning of this century. I call on all of us, ladies and gentlemen, to imagine what it means for the territory of our nation to rise by 100 centimeters. I think, for example, of my city, Venice, which would simply disappear. The problem, however, is not just about our sea, so today's legislative initiative, which after long work finally sees the light, is a point of reference, an important step for the reasons that I will now say. The problem is all about our planet. It is called Pacific trash vortex and is the largest junk agglomeration, especially plastic, present in our Oceans, floats in the Pacific and has a surface equal to three times that of France, weighs 3 million tons and is formed by 1.8 trillion pieces of plastic (bottles, caps, bags). Some senators used to tell about the plastic pounds found in the belly of the big fish, but even more dangerous are the microplastics, those that are not seen, but that then enter the feeding cycle and therefore we ourselves fill ourselves with microplastics. Because of these phenomena, at least 100,000 marine animals die every year. Even greater is the estimated number of unborn marine animals. On the other hand, colleagues, 71 percent of the earth's globe is covered by oceans and seas, here it is born, it is preserved and it promotes life, here it promotes biodiversity and health, also ours. Destroying the sea means destroying ourselves. When we talk about the law "save sea" we talk about the law "save civilization," "save mankind." Of course, the law saves the sea is a piece and is not decisive, but as always it is the set of steps that completes the path. The three objectives of this law are the isolation of the marine ecosystem, the promotion of the circular economy and the promotion of all those actions, starting from education in schools, against the abandonment of waste, not only in the sea, but in the lakes and rivers that then pour into the sea. There is a central issue, Mr President, which is resolved with this bill, which I think is very important, and it is the overcoming of a mad paradox that was present in the national regulatory system: if a fisherman collected waste at sea and brought it to the ground, it became illegal waste trafficking; that is, instead of being valued, rewarded and recognized for an important initiative, it became the one who was about to commit a crime. It was therefore absolutely necessary to intervene: by this law it is defined that accidentally caught waste is treated as ship waste within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 2014/883. Moreover, it is established that it is not necessary to register to the national register of the environmental managers and all a system of contribution to the ground of these wastes, that they are differentiated according to the place of bestowal: therefore, via, from the harbour systems of collection, where present, to structures of collection also temporary, where not present, to harbour systems of integrated collection in the communal system of management of the waste. There are also campaigns to clean the sea and education within schools. There is another piece that is critical, on which we must work to complete, we could say, a circular economy of national legislation that is still lacking, in order to ensure that the circular economy is realized. We need to work on the end of waste. It is necessary to ensure that the Ministry of the ecological transition works with great speed so that waste that is delivered to land, collected to sea, can be, where there are the technological specifications, the second raw material, really closing the waste cycle. This is the great commitment that all of us must make. Finally, Mr President, there is education in schools. In Article 9, the bill makes a further leap: it goes beyond the simple abandonment at sea (even if in reality it is all connected) and works on education in schools for correct practices of waste delivery, recovery, reuse and reduction, in particular of plastics. Here we are playing a piece of our future, President, and we hope - as a Democratic Party - that the vote in this House will be unanimous or abundantly majority. We hope that, through this commitment, there will be the possibility of thinking about environmentally friendly development, which is the only one capable of creating well-being, wealth and future, not only for us, but also for our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u56	PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this is a measure we inherited from the previous government, when the Minister for the Environment was Costa, and it bears the title SalvaMare. Sorry, but the joke comes naturally to me, because I would have called the measure "sea sweep," since all my colleagues wanted to remember that this task will be assigned in a very courageous way to our poor fishermen, already vexed in their working conditions. As Mr Cucca said, as entrepreneurs they become elegantly ecological operators, while Minister Costa had appealed to them almost like our sea sweepers. Doesn't look like a good epithet to me. In any case, we must thank the fishermen who at least today have been able to organize themselves not to be even accused in the event that they unintentionally brought on board with nets the garbage and plastic that today covers our oceans. All our literature speaks of the sea. The ancient Greeks spoke of the sea; Foscolo made it by dedicating a poem, "A Zakynthos" to the island that today is called Zakynthos. I also remember Homer's Odyssey and Leopardi's Infinity. We have a whole series of poets, including the already mentioned Leopardi, who speak of the sea. From Catania I want to remember Giovanni Verga, because the story told in "I Malavoglia" recalls perhaps today the fate of fishermen, who in John Verga's novel had a miserable sort: the boat called Providence then shipwrecked. This story, while listening to the speeches of our colleagues on the previous measure, reminded me a little 'what today will unfortunately be the history of our fishermen. I declare the favorable vote of Forza Italia to the measure under consideration, which is certainly appreciated in the part where it wants to promote a culture aimed at saving the sea, because the sea in literature, filmography, arts and professions has been an inspirational source and a great wealth for our country, whose economy is based on tourism and beaches. I hope that, after hitting the fishermen, we will not give the lifeguards a broom to clean the beaches and make them part of a burden of which today are found to be borne by fishermen with their boats. In fact, this measure, which has been recounted and appreciated by many of my colleagues, is going to heal a very paradoxical situation, namely the fact that if fishermen, unintentionally or even voluntarily, were to make trash and unintentionally carry it on board, they were even punished as if they produced special waste. So they had to throw her back at sea to avoid sanctions and burdens. Today the situation has changed but only with a good caress for the fishermen, because unfortunately I have not read in the measure any kind of incentive: everything is always entrusted to the sensitivity of the fishermen, the citizens and the associations. We have associations that are managers of protected areas, environmental associations, fishermen's associations, cooperatives and fishing companies, consortia, sports and recreational fishermen's associations, diving and boating sports associations, diving and underwater training centres, as well as the management of bathing establishments. I think that our most heartfelt thanks must go to them today, because it will be voluntary associations, as well as voluntary fishermen, that have the task of cleaning up the sea and bringing waste to shore, hoping that the municipalities will have collection centres. We also hope, given that the world is moving forward, that investments will also be made in machinery which today are able to depollute water through a fleet of vessels destined for harvesting. We also have the predisposition of trap implants on large rivers. For this reason, I would like to thank my colleagues in the House of Members, who, at second reading, introduced a rule extending the measures of the measure, in addition to the sea, rivers, lakes and these additional basins. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really talking about a drop in the ocean, because we cannot think of saving the sea - as the name of the measure indicates - by measures such as these. In fact, I would like to remind you that in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, in the north of the Hawaii Islands, as we can also see from the images delivered to us by social media, we find the Pacific trash vortex, that is the garbage vortex of the Pacific, which has an area of 700,000 square kilometers, higher than that of the Iberian Peninsula, whose currents have caused this waste to thicken, creating real islands. This garbage that arrives in Italy, and that - since we have used this term - must clean our fishermen - we do not understand very well the title, because they are not paid certain to be fishermen, unlike our ecological operators - is brought to us by the currents: it even comes from Turkey, France and Spain and of course it is up to us Italians to remedy. So the measure we are examining today is certainly welcome, but unfortunately it will be of little use, almost for nothing, except to repair the immense damage that these wastes cause in our seas today. Such waste has also caused the death of so many species and, even, the usual experts on the Internet claim that each of us eats almost the equivalent of a credit card per day, because of the small fragments of plastic that we find in the waters, fish and food. Unfortunately, they are ingested also because of the labels of clothing: synthetic fibres and their washing are in fact a further cause of pollution of the seas. On the other hand, I believe that it is all the more urgent - and I am addressing this to the Government - to take serious action, including economic and fiscal incentives, to promote the activities of these ecological operators, so that properly equipped workers are created, who can carry out this work in a serious and professional manner. Frankly, leaving this task to fishermen seems really surreal to me. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all called to vote on this measure and we are going to vote on it, but we must be aware that this is not the measure that can be given the title, so important, of SalvaMare: it remains a sweeping measure and the ungrateful task is delegated to our fishermen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u59	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, of course I welcome the call for a time limit to allow the final vote on the measure before the suspension, but I do not think that I have a written statement to leave to the proceedings. I should like to start by starting from the point of view that I have been given some inaccuracies, which I have heard from some of my colleagues who have spoken earlier. The process of the measure under consideration began during the Government Count 1, also participated by the League, then developed in three further passages, with changes introduced first in the reading of the Chamber of Deputies then, again, in the reading of the Senate and this has meant the lengthening of the times, until today. Thus, four passages have been made in the parliamentary assemblies - today's is the fourth - and three different governments. Having said that, I think it is understandable to understand why there is already a deadline in the measure, for which I presented an agenda to the Commission, inviting the Government to remedy as soon as the measure is approved. The agenda has also been signed by many other colleagues from the Commission's territory, environment, environmental goods, perhaps by everyone, and will therefore ensure that, as soon as the measure is enacted, action can be taken to update this deadline. Having undertaken to contract the time, I will not go into the substance of the measure, but I want to make some explicit references. I am thinking, for example, of what is expressly indicated in Article 1: we are talking about the restoration of the marine ecosystem, the promotion of the economy, virtuous behavioral models, and it is this last point that I think I should go into with a little reflection. These measures are important to me because Article 1 expressly indicates an objective, which has been achieved in part in mountain areas, where the symbiosis man-territory has always developed, making it clear that the uses, traditions, virtuous behaviours, even regulated in acts - which, for example, involved the obligation for the frontists to clean up the riverbed - had to be replicated also in the waters, including rivers, since it is true that the provision is called saving the sea, but also includes in it what happens on rivers, lakes and, indeed, sea. This allows me to reply to some of my colleagues who have regretted the lack of incentives for this, which we would obviously have appreciated too, but I do not know a farmer or operator who does not make improvements in the workplace or on his own ground, if it is those who make agriculture. Therefore, to move from a system that implicitly first brought fishermen to put back into the sea the collected waste - because it was special waste - to a system that instead allows it to give them for disposal free of charge and without administrative difficulties, because they are equated to ordinary waste like the waste of the ships, I would say that it is a huge improvement. I, therefore, would have appreciated if there had been contributions in this regard, but as a person who comes from the mountain and knows that the care of his garden - let's call it improperly - is responsibility before every person who carries out that activity, but above all it is something that he does voluntarily, in my opinion already in itself this justifies the fact that he hopes to be able to leave a better world to future generations, as someone said, with this measure. In this sense I allow myself to open a small personal parenthesis because, on the day of the completion of the eighteen years of my oldest daughter for me it is a pleasure as a father to be able to approve a measure that will help to create the possibility of leaving for her, in fact, a better world. [[Applause]] In compliance with the commitment to contract the times, I start with the conclusions declaring the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group - Party of Action because we are aware that we are not trying a measure that alone will solve all the problems of the sea, but this is called decree-law and not magic wand or something that is not in our possibilities; therefore, pragmatically, as a concrete person I recognize that there are limits and that it would have been possible to improve it further, as is always possible for any measure, but I believe that the innovation introduced with this measure, with what will be possible to do after we have approved it, alone justifies the fact that our vote will be favorable. [[Applause.]] 11:49 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u62	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, every day that passes we have 731 tonnes of plastic entering the Mediterranean Sea. The plastic is dispersed in the environment. Why? Because it is not well recycled, so from landfills, rivers and waterways it clearly reaches the oceans. Nine million tons end up in the oceans each year and 90 percent of aquatic animals, fish, have plastic fragments in their stomachs, which then turns into what? Even at the bottom we have microplastics and where does it go? On our boards. So, in the end, no more plastic. I repeat: stop eating plastic. [[Applause]] For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars since 2019, with the Government Count I and with the former minister Sergio Costa, has carried out this bill, which today we finally bring here in the Hall: the SalvaMare. Our planet, called Earth, should actually be called Ocean, if we really stick to numbers. Our planet is precisely ocean, because 71 percent of the earth's surface is covered by water. But that's not all there is, there's something that sometimes escapes. We always say that the sea is the origin of life, but keep in mind that from the sea comes also the oxygen that serves our life. So we owe the ocean the oxygen we breathe; we breathe because there is the sea. So why haven't we realized this so far? Why didn't we pursue a law that protects him? The 5 Star Movement has brought this bill to the House today, which we should call save humanity, because it protects our health, the work of fishermen, the work of those who live on tourism. We are not just talking about the environment here, we are also talking about the economy, because three billion people depend on coastal biodiversity for their livelihood. Fish provides 20% of animal protein, marine fish industries directly and indirectly employ more than 200 million people; they are really very high numbers. But there is one other thing that perhaps has not yet been said. The SalvaMare law, which we strongly wanted, saves the life of the planet, because the oceans are a terrestrial thermostat and absorb much of the solar radiation coming from the Earth's surface. We are trying to mitigate climate change: well, the oceans already do. Then we must protect them. Ninety percent of the temperature increase produced by climate-altering gases is absorbed by the oceans. Yet in recent years we have allowed the formation of what has already been called a plastic island, the surface of which ranges from 700,000 to 10 million square kilometers. It was discovered in 1980, but it is not the only one, because there are four more scattered in the Pacific and the Atlantic. We must therefore move forward, not just with this law; we must move forward and improve what we are doing. The fishermen for the Movimento 5 Stars are the keepers of the sea. They've already had problems, because, as you've just heard, plastic still comes up from the networks normally. What are we gonna do, throw her back in the sea? That would be crazy. Think that so far a fisherman, if he wanted to bring back the trash trapped in his nets, which eventually end up there, had to pay a penalty, as if he had produced those trash on his boat. Now, thanks to the commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars and the constructive work done with other parliamentary forces and with many associations, with the SalvaMare we have finally faced and closed this absurdity. It is in fact absurd to pay just because I am a conscientious citizen and want to eliminate waste from the sea. The law will finally allow fishermen to carry out this virtuous action quietly. But there is much more in the law, because, in addition to fishermen, citizens and social promotion associations will also be able to carry out this type of collection. It is expected to install collection systems at the mouths of the rivers, to intercept the waste before they arrive at sea. The measure also deals with education, which we must always put first, providing for promotion activities in schools of all grades. You can draw resources with the ReGeneration School plan, designed by our undersecretary Barbara Floridia. We also thank the Undersecretary Ilaria Fontana and the Ministry of the ecological transition [[Applause]] , which is launching a three-year experimental programme, funded with EUR 6 million, for the recovery of floating waste in rivers, compatible with hydraulic requirements and for the protection of ecosystems. The 5 Star Movement has begun this work with the Count Government I and it is carrying it forward, for the protection of the marine ecosystem and the internal waters, but also to carry forward our vision of circular economy. We must remember that the Decade of Ocean Sciences for Sustainable Development 2021-2030 has been proclaimed. I also remember that the Movimento 5 Star Group has decided to dedicate this law to Angelo Vassallo, the mayor fisherman of Pollica, in the province of Salerno, friend of the environment and legality, brutally killed in September 2010. [[Applause]] This law is a conquest for civilization and not only for the 5 Star Movimento: it is a conquest of all citizens because we are protecting our beautiful sea, but also the health of all (we have seen the problem that microplastic creates). We don't stop here. The 5 Star Movement does not give up and goes on because it has in its mission the defense of the weak, understood as citizens and workers, but also the earth system (when it has no one in its defense) and natural resources (which must be protected and not burned). I repeat: natural resources must not be burned even if they are in other form, such as waste. We must not burn our common home, but we must protect it. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars to the law SalvaMare. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u63	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] As already stated, the sitting is suspended until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.58 a.m. and resumed at 16.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u64	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2564. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Fenu.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u65	Mr President, my reply will actually be very brief, because we have dealt with all the issues dealt with in this decree-law in the initial report. Evidence only a few themes. One of the new elements introduced in the decree-law concerns the SOA certification requirement for construction companies carrying out superbonus work. I wanted to explain this point, because from the outside they are asking all Members of Parliament what has happened and there is concern among the smaller companies that have never needed this type of certification. There was a point of fall between two needs that were reasonable: on the one hand there was the need to entrust the largest jobs to companies that were a minimum structured and this structuring can also be represented with the possession of this certification; on the other hand, it was intended to find a point of fall compared to the amendment proposed also by Forza Italia and reformulated by the Government raising the threshold initially foreseen. In short, the initial rewording provided that the companies, in order to carry out work for a greater amount of 258,000 euros, would have had to have asked - in a transitional phase, already from 1 July 2022 (thus immediately) - at least the SOA certification and then, from 1 January 2023, to have the certification proper. Objectively, the threshold was low, because it was likely to exclude smaller companies, and the term was actually too close, so many companies would not have been able to obtain certification in time. The threshold has therefore been increased to EUR 516,000 and the deadline has shifted to 1 January. We receive some elements of protest from some small business. I hope that in the future we can find elements for further improvement of this provision, which in any case arises from two opposing requirements, both reasonable. I would now like to respond briefly to my colleague Daniele Pesco, who had tabled an amendment to introduce the possibility of establishing the price of gas on the basis of the average purchase price by wholesale buyers. My colleague complained that his amendment had been ignored; it was actually examined very carefully and it is very important. We all agree on the need to act in some way on price-calming in the wholesale purchase. However, there have been difficulties in expressing an opinion on an amendment of this kind, especially since a similar amendment has recently been adopted in the House which refers to the real cost of gas and the person who has to refer to this real cost, in order to be able to intervene on the final price to the consumer, is ARERA. I therefore hope that the amendment recently adopted in the House to the Energy Decree-Law can be implemented as soon as possible, because it is not enough to hit the extra profits. The best solution would be to act at the origin. So, somehow, check the gas price at the origin, which doesn't correspond to the original real cost. This consideration was directed at responding to Mr Pesco. I totally agreed with your amendment, but at this stage it was still early to be able to examine it and carry it forward. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u66	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tiraboschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u67	Mr President, Mr Guerra and Mr Freni, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fenu has already said on the point of SOA and also on the issue of gas prices, which must be cut off from electricity prices. If I may, I would like to make two more points, and I would also like to thank all the Members of this Senate who have given excellent thought. On the SOA, we basically tried to reach a point of synthesis between two opposing stakeholders. All of us have been contacted by the professional associations involved, who had opposing interests, and we have sought mediation. I understand that in politics mediation does not always satisfy everyone and that, sometimes, it can displease everyone. The objective of this amendment, which we then approved, was essentially to certify the quality of the offer of the building service both in the interest of the client (anyone, a citizen who requests the execution of construction work on his own apartment or on his own property) and in the interest of the workers, who must be guaranteed safety in the workplace. It is obvious that certification must not be understood as a further administrative and bureaucratic fulfillment that extends the time frame for the company. It must be understood as a path, which is not at all complicated to do if the company, even if small, is organized to show the certificates of performance of the works, the building certificates, clearly required by those responsible for issuing this certification. On the issue of the price of gas disconnected from the price of energy to avoid speculation, I stress that this is certainly a step that can help, but speculation is ascribed precisely to the so-called financial market. At a time when there are geopolitical tensions, such as those we are observing and reading in the newspapers, it is clear that there is some financial speculation. For example, in America there are investment funds that are behind companies that extract liquid natural gas using the so-called fracking technique, a very expensive technique, on which they have invested a lot of money without any return. Today, that there would be a great need to produce this gas, such companies do not produce it and we do not understand why they do not activate drilling. The reason is that investment funds prefer to guarantee dividends and buy back rather than invest further on drilling. This is just to explain the financial dynamics underlying certain productive sectors. As far as the moratorium on mortgages is concerned, they all talked about it. I would just like to point out that with this measure we have not brought home the moratorium on mortgages; we have done a great deal of work, together with the Government, getting an extension of six months on pre-depreciation, which therefore goes from twenty-four to thirty months for companies that have obtained state-backed funding of more than 30,000 euros. In order to bring home the much more important measure relating to the moratorium on mortgages we must absolutely wait for the temporary framework, on which several revisions have been made. The last of these is due to expire on 30 June and it is clear that the issue of state aid, at a time when the economy and the productive fabric have not yet recovered as they should have if the energy crisis and the war had not occurred, will have to be dealt with with by the European Union. On the issue of simplifications, I would like to refer in particular to Amendment 7.0.1 by Senator Toffanin, whom I thank for the excellent work done on simplifications in order to facilitate the installation of photovoltaic systems. I also appeal to the Government to urge it to issue as quickly as possible the ministerial decree of Minister Cingolani, which should indicate the criteria on which to build the so-called energy communities and promote self-consumption. Given that we have already taken a number of steps in the area of simplification, however, I believe that we must absolutely intervene with criteria, which will then be transposed by regional laws, on the front of the so-called production and agricultural areas with the surrounding areas annexed. I say this because once the Regions have enacted the laws, if then these laws indicate criteria that in turn must be transposed by the regulatory plans of the Municipalities further lengthen the terms; instead, if the areas are the productive ones and the agricultural ones and the surrounding portions are enslaved to the productive areas and the agricultural areas, I believe that the simplification must go in the direction of authorising the installation of the photovoltaic systems. I would also like to make a few comments on the Booking platform and on the amendment by Senator Mallegni that has made us discuss a lot, also because of the passion of the colleague who is not in the Chamber, but who has great expertise in the tourism sector and is also responsible for the tourism department of Forza Italia. I would like to say that we will have to be content with the so-called institution of presumption of dominant position, which could be brought into the field with regard to interlocation with those platforms which are in this position and which guarantee operators who use them to carry out their activities. By saying this I am not just referring to Booking and Expedia, but I would also like to remind you of the long discussion on the draft competition law relating to Amazon. On the tourism front (I had talked about it with my colleague Mallegni), it would have been desirable to have shown the will to bravely face a piece of industrial policy in Italy, so as to guarantee important investments on a so-called platform of Made in Italy - it has been my battlehorse since 2018 - which is the synthesis of tourism and Italian creative industry, as well as Italian excellence. It would have been a brave action that should have been faced perhaps about twenty years ago, because today unfortunately we are suffering a huge competitive advantage from these American platforms; in that way we would probably have achieved points of GDP certainly more important in the tourism sector just as much as the made in Italy can express. However, this is difficult to achieve today, as many operators in the tourism sector complain, precisely because the commissions, as Senator Mallegni said, are presented in an invoice without VAT and above all they are commissions with reference to which we do not have maximum percentages to respect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking not so much about the reply, which we are giving up, but about asking for the suspension of the work of this House until 5.30 p.m. for the preparation of the maximum amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u69	Let us try to set a timetable which does not oblige us to suspend work again.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u70	Mr Guerra, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. I confirm the request until that time.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u71	I therefore suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.20 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u72	Mr President, I call for a suspension of the work of this House until 7 p.m., because I am assured that the maximum amendment will have arrived by then.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u73	We all really hope so at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u76	ANGRISANI (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I want to talk to you about what has happened to some teenagers who, because of the anti-contagion measures, have been deprived of the right to carry out sports, with the hope that it will not happen again. Thousands of families have repeatedly asked the institutions to pay more attention to the condition of their underage children, who have no longer been able to participate in sports activities or because they have been given green vaccination passes or because they have not been vaccinated. The possible consequences of not being able to take part in sports activities can spill over into the mental health of our youngsters with symptoms such as depression, anxiety, frustration. The fears of these parents for the consequences on the psychological state of their children are confirmed in two authoritative studies carried out both by the Clinical Center of Psychology in Monza and by the Gaslini Hospital in Genoa. In both surveys, published in authoritative journals, there are alarming data on the condition of many teenagers who, following the second lockdown, had very serious psychological problems that, thanks to sport, could solve. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that for the future the Government will question whether or not it is appropriate to continue to vex and discriminate against healthy children. The super green pass has prevented all the kids in the world from living and doing sports. Our children grew up for two years in a society that has now passively accepted discrimination, social exclusion and the deprivation of fundamental rights, in the name of the supreme good of the protection of public health. The price the children are paying is very high, also because we teach our children the inclusion, respect and use of reason, but then we are in a country that our teaching has never taken into account; and it did so especially during the pandemic, also because it has been proven that among those who have been infected by the omicron variant, 95 percent is vaccinated, compared to 4 percent. Mr President, I conclude by saying that more could be done, more swabs could be requested, regardless of whether people were vaccinated or not. I hope that these people will not be excluded in the future, because it is not possible to discriminate against children. [[Applause]] , it is not possible that healthy and controlled children have been excluded from the company. We could have done more, but the sense of hindsight - as we know - is full of graves. Common sense is needed to become a real community again.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u79	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I speak only to bring to the attention of the House a beautiful gesture of humanity and love, made in Tuscany, in Florence, by Chiara Fossombroni, a woman, a mother, who decided to take care of a child left by her parents at the Meyer hospital. He was a child of a few months, whose life was already destined, unfortunately, to death, so much so that he died a few days ago. However, she decided to take him in foster care, to follow him and make him live through small gestures, but very important, that should make us all reflect, like seeing the sea or touching the grass. They are small gestures that have great significance, all the more so at such a difficult time for Italy, for Europe and the whole world. For my part and for the whole Group, I offer my condolences to my mother, Chiara Fossombroni, and a greeting to little Kaif. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u80	He had anticipated that Senator Marinello also wanted to intervene at this stage, but he is not now present. We shall therefore see to it that your intervention is recovered later. As requested by the government representative, I suspend the session until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 7.06 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, I do not yet see the representative of the Government in this House and I would therefore use that to conclude the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u83	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, I think it is useful and appropriate to bring to the attention of this House an absolutely wrong decision taken by the health company ASP in Agrigento in my home territory. As you know, at national level it has rightly been decided to extend the fixed-term contracts of the nursing staff of the social and health workers recruited during the Covid emergency. Serious needs have not ended both for reasons related to the pandemic and for chronic staff shortages. According to the press reports, the ASP in Agrigento, in communicating the extension of these contracts, would, however, at the same time provide for half working hours. This is a serious decision because it is absolutely devoid of concrete foundations and totally removed from the local health environment. The medical staff of the Province of Agrigento have been suffering for decades from a considerable reduction in the number of doctors, nurses and OSS, with serious deficiencies in the care of the person, which is all too often improperly carried out by family members and caregivers. Half-time work will have immediate repercussions on health care as a large part of the staff concerned will refuse a contract with this reduction in working hours. Moreover, the staff involved, in addition to being employed in support of the stay of the patients Covid hospitalized in emergency areas and in intensive therapies, has now become indispensable in order to ensure a correct turnaround of the staff in compliance with the regulations in force. In this respect, I repeat that it is now necessary to speed up the process of covering vacancies in staff, given that many employees have been on leave for at least two years. With this speech I therefore make a heartfelt and strong appeal to the competent local and regional health bodies for an immediate rethink of the decision taken by the ASP in Agrigento. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to fight against this type of choice, in defence of the level of health care offered on the ground and the quality of life of citizenship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very embarrassed about the presences and absences in this House. I suspend the sitting until 7.20 p.m., and then, independently, the Presidency will decide on the continuation of work. (The sitting was suspended at 7.09 p.m. and resumed at 7.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u85	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u86	Mr President, I apologize further for the delay in tabling the maxi amendment. I am asking you, President and my fellow senators, to move your presentation to 9.30 a.m. tomorrow morning. I would ask this courtesy on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u87	In view of the contradictive nemina principle, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-431.ana.u89	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 12 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.21 p.m.
