ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2459, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Matrisciano, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u5	Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, at last today we are bringing to the House an important measure aimed at supporting and enhancing the family. We are faced with a text approved by the Chamber of Deputies on which the Commission has placed itself in a very cooperative way, bearing in mind the need of the Government to reach the adoption of the delegated decrees as soon as possible, and therefore had to give up an amending contribution. The amendments were tabled only by the main opposition force, while the majority renounced the submission of amending proposals, preferring to resort to agendas that were challenging to the Government and could provide guidance to the Executive both in the adoption of delegated decrees, and also in the overall action to which it must put hand, to complement and complete the contents of the draft law under consideration. I would like to point out that the Government has also accepted amendments to which the political forces were very keen, starting with an agenda which calls on the Commission to set up a technical table on the reform of the ISEE: this is a requirement coming from all political forces and also signed in the Commission by the Brothers of Italy Group. We have also had the pleasure of having inserted and accepted an agenda of the 5 Star Movement, the PD and the LEU on the revision of parental leave, recognizing the possibility to evaluate them also in the so-called end of life, that is, in the presence of an inauspicious prognosis, an express renunciation or refusal of health treatments or consent to deep and continuous palliative sedation. We felt it was necessary. Amendments by the Forza Italia Group concerning the increase in permits (Law No 104 of 1992) which can be used by both parents and support for the family to enhance parental skills were accepted. Last but not least, there is an agenda that we considered important of the Forza Italia Group, also signed by the Movimento 5 Stars and the PD Group, which concerns the caregiver discipline, with which we ask the Government to continue to support, even economically, this firm measure in the Commission. The amendments which the Government could not accept, given the opinions of the Budget Committee, which had to reject many proposals under Article 81, were in some cases accepted as agendas: seven agendas were accepted by the Brothers of Italy Group. This is proof of a very fruitful climate and of a great deal of cooperation within the Commission, which led to the fact that, even in the mandate to the rapporteur, the main opposition force has expressed itself favourably. I consider this, as President of the Commission, but also as rapporteur, to be an important achievement. I would like to thank all the political forces and Minister Bonetti, who, with her highly cooperative and flexible attitude, has contributed to achieving a great result. I would also like to thank the former Minister of Labour, Senator Nunzia Catalfo, co-signator of the bill, who had taken care of the entire part of the work competence. With this measure, which concerns the daily life of all of us, we have taken a first step towards that direction that we should have taken for years already, aimed at supporting the parenthood and the social and educational function of families, combating denatality, enhancing the harmonious and inclusive growth of children and young people, supporting the independence and financial autonomy and promoting the reconciliation of family life with work: topics that are very often filled with the mouth, but that today become reality. Coming to the merits, I would like to highlight above all the main points of the delegation, which concern the following macro-areas: I reorder measures to support the education of children and discipline parental leave of paternity and motherhood. Here I would like to highlight a very important point, because the reform transposes in advance the provisions of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between work and family life. Last week a legislative decree was passed in the Council of Ministers, but we stress that the delegation already anticipated this decree. Other macro-areas include incentives for women to work, support for families for the training of children and the financial autonomy of young people and the promotion of family responsibilities. Therefore, this measure - as we have said - promotes the parenthood and harmonisation of family and working times and the equitable sharing of care loads among parents; particular attention is paid to the conditions of disability, indicating it as a criterion to be taken into account in order to grant any kind of benefit to families. Under Article 2, we have delegated to the Government to take measures to support the education of dependent children, as well as the introduction of new benefits to be provided to families. The Government must adhere to a series of principles aimed at ensuring the establishment, support and strengthening of socio-educational services for children and adolescents, aimed at promoting and developing the potential for personal growth, autonomy and social integration of children enrolled, including disabled children, if they express personal, social and family distress, as well as at providing for measures to combat child educational poverty. Support measures for families are also planned by means of contributions to cover the cost of tuition fees relating to the frequency of education services for children. These services can also be provided according to flexible structural management models, adapted to the needs of parents. In addition, support measures are provided - also an important point - and tied contributions for the expenses incurred for children with disabilities, with invalidating physical and mental diseases, including eating behaviour disorders, specific learning disorders and special educational needs, including treatment and rehabilitation costs for therapeutic and recreational activities carried out by accredited subjects. Measures are also planned to support expenditure on education travel, sports practice, the purchase of books, goods and IT services, tickets for access to museums, exhibitions, natural parks and galleries. Article 3 delegates the Government to adopt one or more legislative decrees for the reordering of the discipline of parental leave of paternity and motherhood. Article 4 provides for the reorganisation and reinforcement of measures to encourage women's work and the reconciliation of living and working time. On this point, too, a number of principles and criteria have been provided for a clear improvement in the working condition: to provide for a gradual modulation of the remuneration received by the worker on days of absence from work in the case of children's illness, subject to the most favourable conditions laid down by collective labour agreements; to provide incentives for employers applying the clauses of national collective agreements of employment which provide for flexible working arrangements for the purposes of reconciling living and working time, with the recognition of workers' right to request the restoration of the original contractual arrangements; to provide also for facilitated instruments for the discipline of ancillary work related to support for families in the household and for care and assistance to the person, facilities for firms for maternity replacements, the return to work of women and for training activities intended for them; to provide for further steps to strengthen measures to encourage female work in the regions of the Mezzogiorno and further incentives to facilitate the emergence of undeclared work in the home. Article 5 delegates the Government to adopt legislative decrees for the reorganization and strengthening of measures to support the expenditure of families for the training of children and the achievement of financial autonomy by young people. As I said, Mr President, the delegation is very broad. We therefore hope that the acceleration that has taken place in this branch of Parliament will give the government the opportunity to proceed quickly with the delegated decrees. We, as a Commission work, will try to make our contribution at this stage, since it was not possible in the first. I once again stress the great responsibility of the Commission, which I have the honour to chair, and also its great ability to sum up. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u7	Mr President, Minister, we are faced with a dramatic figure: 400,000 new born, but for 2021 we will be under this quota. We are faced with a birth emergency that has never had such dramatic peaks. In the face of this emergency - I tell you very sincerely, Minister - we are convinced that the measure we are examining is a warm cloth or a little more. We must have the courage to make real family policies and these are not. We insist that family policies are policies to combat poverty, but that is not the case. Family policy is one thing, the policy of combating poverty is another. We cannot continue with the destruction of the family from an ideological point of view every day, with legal measures and stratifications - on the one hand - and then - on the other - thinking that the family, demolished from an ideological point of view, can continue to play its role from a social point of view. It doesn't work that way: once the family is destroyed and demolished, it is forever and you can't think that the birth rate is filled with other resources. The birth rate is filled with the family and nothing different. My thoughts today go to the 20 million Italian families, to the 20 million dads and moms who woke up this morning, accompanied their children to school, went to work, prepared breakfast for them, lunch for when they return; I think about the everyday life of this work that is very often left without resources, help and support. The first major drawback of this measure is that we have once again wanted to link the policies that are said to be familiar, but in reality they are social, to the question of the ISEE: we cannot link family policies to the ISEE, because this is a tool for measuring wealth and it is fine if we want to use it for policies to fight poverty, so that families, people who must be helped out of poverty, have a reliable measurer. But, at a time when we want to make family policies, we have to get out of this kind of ISEE loop, because the ISEE is not primarily made for family policies. Excuse me: we give indiscriminately the bonus facades, we have the money for the bonus earthquake - as is right - that it is without considering the ISEE and, in the face of an emergency such as that of the birthday, we link the policies of support for birth to the ISEE. [[Applause]] You know this is crazy. We have the money to give the bonus facades to all Italians and instead we limit the policies of support to the birth with the tool of the ISEE. This is in itself the first of the great problems. The second of the great problems is that the ISEE, moreover, is an unfair instrument that misjudges wealth. It is an instrument that - for example - measures gross wealth. But how do you calculate the ISEE on the basis of gross income? So we force Italians who already pay taxes to pay them twice, because they also find their wealth indicator based not on net income as it would be right, but on gross income, as it happens today. Again, we have repeatedly pointed out the need to remove the family home from the basket of the ISEE, because it does not produce any income for the family that lives in it. The family home is the minimum union that we have to recognize to the family in order to be able to raise their children, in order to do what the Constitution requires to do. [[Applause]] Let us not forget that maintaining, educating and educating children is not a habit that Italian families have, but it is a duty that the Constitution imposes on them. We cannot, therefore, tax that part of the income that families use for their constitutionally established duty, precisely, which is to maintain, educate and educate the offspring. Minister, we must make a decisive change of pace. We have to decide whether we really want to invest in this country and the family or whether we want to keep telling each other about it. We can tell it for the next centuries, but the result, unfortunately - Istat tells us - will invariably be the same, and that is a painful demographic decline of our country that from the present about 60 million inhabitants will soon reach 30-35 million inhabitants, without considering the effects of denatality on the social balance. Currently the generation that is holding the weight of the elderly and people who are no longer self-sufficient because of the age is still a large slice, because they are the so-called baby boomers, born between the fifties and sixties. But when baby boomers retire, underneath there will be no one paying those pensions: instead of a demographic pyramid, we will have a demographic fungus, in which the part of the active population will be so small that it will no longer be able to bear the burden. This is not about making ideological policies, but simply about having common sense, about investing in the future of our country, about the most important good that we have that is our families. Families, Minister, are mother and father with children: it is not difficult. [[Applause]] It's been like this forever, since there's the world. Let us forget the ideologies and invest in the true primary good of our country: the natural family, the one that our Constitution contemplates. At this point, I would like to thank Mr Bonetti for listening to Parliament and all the political forces who unanimously called for the opening of a table for the reform of the ISEE. It is certainly a very important step and I am very pleased with that, because it is a result of all the political forces in Parliament. But we must go beyond the reform of the ISEE, we must have the courage to say that the ISEE cannot be applied to family policies. We must have the courage to say that, in addition to parental leave, in addition to kindergartens - they are, for goodness sake, a commendable policy contained in this provision - we must finally arrive at a family-friendly tax. [[Applause]] Let's call it flat tax, let's call it family factor, let's call it whatever you want, the concept is very simple: everything the family earns and spends to raise children cannot be taxed, cannot be touched by tax. It's very simple, Minister. This is what we have to get to; the rest, for goodness sake, are interesting ideas, they are proposals animated by the best interest, but they will not solve the problem. All this to say that this is a measure on which we will certainly - as will be said later in the debate and in the explanation of vote - will not fail to support us. However, we ask you for courageous policies and a courageous change of pace. We can no longer hear ourselves say in this Parliament that there is no money. If there's no money for our kids, then there's no money for anything else. [[Applause]] You tell me what it's like to build motorways, what's the point of building railways, what's the point of investing in who knows what infrastructure, if those infrastructures aren't used by anyone, why aren't our children using them anymore? Might as well reverse the trend. We might as well finally have the courage to say that today who brings a child into the world is a hero and the State must put itself at the side of that hero, support him and help him with all the resources available. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u8	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, this measure has the task of combating the obvious demographic crisis of Italians and tidying up the various rules to support parenthood. In my opinion, it is very important to find solutions to the problems faced by working women in reconciling the desire for motherhood with work and the need to secure certain income in order to guarantee the new life what it needs. If they do not have economic security, Italian couples suppress the desire for parenthood, because they fear that they cannot manage it or that they cannot manage the child when they do not have the grandparents to whom they can entrust him if he gets sick. Let's think of a self-employed woman forced to close the store, for example. Currently there are no kindergartens; although they are provided for by the PNRR, they are not enough now. One of the problems lies also in the ISEE parameters adopted for the payment of the single cheque, which penalise too much those who create income and contribute to Italian GDP. I think - for example - that a monthly single allowance of EUR 50 is too small for dependent children at ISEE equal to or greater than EUR 40,000. In other European countries, which have our own problem of birth, they give about 200 a month, regardless of income. This seems to me to be a fairer and more suitable measure for stimulating births. It certainly does not encourage the sum of 50 euros per month, three times lower than old family allowances, given the high costs that couples would have to meet with a young child. Far from speaking for those who are deprived of income or have insufficient income to be able to afford a substantial number of children, as unfortunately happens in the many families of immigrants present in Italy and constantly arriving. At a time like this, when our pensioners do not know how to pay the bills and they also give up the indispensable, such as non-refundable medicines or heating, it seems to me too much to give measures to welfare everyone indistinguishably, also because for each child you grant a cheque of at least 175 euros for the lower bands. Plato, in the fourth century before Christ, admonished the Athenians by telling them that, when a citizen accepts that whoever happens to them in the house can acquire the same rights as those who built it and were born there, when the leaders tolerate all this in order to gain vows and consents, in the name of freedom that devours and corrupts every rule, so democracy dies, for abuse of itself, and before blood dies in ridicule. It seems to me that in Italy there is now this way of acting. It is right to be unselfish, but without exaggerating. I think that the universal single cheque, as we have come to determine, is too costly a measure to put on the shoulders of our future generations. In fact, at this rate, forced to support the children of all, I doubt there could be future generations able to pay the public debt. I think that the Italian parliamentarians must first solve the problems of their fellow citizens, because there will be no future generations, if we condemn that of now to keep the children of all. If at a time of generosity we have given too much, now I think it is time to take a step back, without prejudice to the aid to all the mothers and children who come from Ukraine. In addition to removing the ISEE, I believe that the dependent child allowance should be linked to all workers, regardless of whether they are in compliance with the payment of contributions, as it was before the single allowance. We are the only country that has these rich measures of indiscriminate welfare and the one with the largest public debt. In other European countries, subsidies are given to non-EU foreigners only if they are political refugees or have obtained international protection. Since reading some articles of the draft delegation, I have had the feeling that I am faced with too ambitious and costly projects. Where are the resources to do all these beautiful things, while we are so insensitive to the many fellow citizens who do not know how to get to the end of the month? I think it's essential to be on the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u10	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the President of the Commission for his public and private work, social security and also for Mrs Minister, because I believe that with this draft law, we are facing a very serious and challenging challenge. The first consideration I want to make is that we are today called upon to approve, with the important work done in the Commission and in the Chamber of Deputies, a bill with delegations to the Government, which - Mrs. Minister, allow me to say - must be implemented quickly, not underestimating the change of phase that the country is experiencing. That is why I say that this is a particularly important challenge. The content of the bill delegates to our examination puts us in a position to approach the best European practices - I am thinking of France and the countries of Northern Europe - because they address exactly the issue of families, which is important. Mrs. Minister, you know I'd love your ministry to be called "families," even to comply with the laws of our country. In fact, we work for all the families and this is the fundamental theme, also in respect of the choices that have been made by Parliament and the country. The text under consideration, therefore, puts us in line with and in line with the other European countries, since there is an extraordinary political novelty in this bill, which has long been debated, discussed and deepened in the Chamber of Deputies, namely the fact that we look at the policies of families knowing how to look within families, at the differentials between parents - I am referring in particular to policies affecting women - and at the differentials and commitments we have towards children. This is the first major political innovation of the draft law under consideration, because it does not unite and does not sum up, i.e. it does not render the policies that we have to do neutral. I do not take back all the elements that the rapporteur has brought back to this House, but I invite everyone to read the whole text, because the proposals for delegation - and therefore to be implemented - are aimed precisely at overcoming all the gaps there are, above all on the fundamental area of women's policies. It means that with this delegation we work on the three major issues: women's employment, autonomy (which comes from women's employment and its increase) and the beginning of a very important policy that frees women from so-called care jobs (which are, in practice, unpaid ones). This is the fundamental hub, which moreover intertwines the choices we have made with the PNRR and the ability that we must have on all the policies to support this important and fundamental operation for the growth of the whole country. It is, in fact, a matter not of women, but of the country. The intersection takes place with a set of elements. I believe that reading and voting in favour of this scheme, which is a system - not a vertical but horizontal policy for the system as a whole - is a fundamental step forward. What is our commitment on this ground? At a time when we are writing our political proposals on families, women, mothers and children, we are also doing another operation which I stress because it is the other element of great novelty of political culture present in the bill. When we talk about sons and daughters, we aim not only to give the fundamental thing (i.e. the universal single allowance, which - even here - has reversed the traditional policies of parental derivation compared to children), but also to do an operation on the best path to overcome all inequalities that can be encountered with regard to education and training. This is the second great element of perspective which, also here, intertwines the planned reforms and - if I may afford, Minister - extends them to the objective of taking charge by the State, with a set of policies and funding, of the greatest inequality of a country, which is not access to education. This happens with reference to all the paths that exist: all the elements present in one of the delegations of the bill tell us that it is dealt with in 360 degrees (from access, to the costs, the opportunities and the implementation of forms of culture and knowledge that even today are not provided in the national programs). This is done by intervening on the aspect of early childhood, that is the first years of life of our girls and our children, knowing that, if you do not start from there, everything else happens with more effort. However, care must be taken afterwards. Why, Minister - we are with you and with this Government - do I say it is a great challenge? To explain myself, I may use an improper argument which, however, from my point of view, is not. Today there is a debate in the country linked to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and sanctions policies and all the instruments that we are rightly putting in place. For example, in the field of energy it is said that we, rather than accelerating the objectives of the PNRR, should somehow calibrate them differently. But no: we must speed up the planned changes. On this ground, which I consider to be just as fundamental for the growth of the whole country, I say to be careful, being this a delegated bill, not to go back to the perspective, which would be devastating for the whole country, according to which there are no resources to face the change of horizontal paradigm. This is not true - there are the resources of the PNRR - and besides, without this different political cut and system policies, we will not be able to counter the objective difficulties that we will all have to live together at this stage of economic crisis. So, I really wanted to emphasize this. Finally, I would like to point out that at the end of March the Council of Ministers has already adopted a measure on these issues, by implementing a European directive. I see his head shaking. I also shake it, but we should discuss it in the Commission and then in Parliament. It was just a hint. I referred to this point to say: be careful, because today's vote is not about breaking up, it is not just about transposing the European directives in the strict sense. It involves a set of policies, which concern women's employment, access to and modification of services, their qualification, horizontal pathways, i.e. all the delegations contained in the draft law. The challenge is serious, but with today's vote in favour this Parliament, as I know of course we will, will decide not to go back on this choice of installation and financing. In the Reports it is said that we could not do that a bill delegates, because the costs are there and were also reported by some interventions. However, what we are talking about with this bill are not costs, but investments for the change, growth and increase of Italian gross domestic product. This is the theme. They are also delegations that change and exceed the gender gap that is linked to the new generations and territories, that is, they are exactly incardinated in that policy and in those choices that we have all made with the PNRR. A huge challenge, therefore, for which we are there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u12	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating and voting on today provides for many delegations to the Government to encourage birth and to support and enhance the family. The family act, unfortunately, while going in the right direction, pursuing noble objectives, is not yet a decisive measure, also because many actions will still have to be put in place, especially in the light of the changed economic and social conditions, which see the family today particularly affected. Our duty is to redesign the welfare and labour systems, which are closely linked, and to find the necessary resources to support and strengthen the family, which always remains the core and backbone of our social system. We must not forget that the family is the first social shock absorber, so the resources dedicated to it are actually an investment, as has been well said in this House. When we talk about the family, we talk about the situation of women, about the future of young people and therefore about the need to anticipate interventions that help all the members to make their contribution. And it's not just income support. Italy is the European country, we must remember, which invests less than others, with the exception of Malta and the Netherlands, in terms of GDP percentages for family policies. There are several indicators that need to be affected. They are the birth rate, the employment rate of women, child poverty, material and educational. These are not independent goals between them, but they must become a positive lever for each other, improving not only the conditions of families, but also reducing social inequalities and strengthening the processes of growth and production of well-being in the country. An effective family act can, in fact, also become the most effective development policy. That is why we would have wanted much more, both in terms of dedicated resources and in terms of more appropriate instruments. I am thinking, for example, of the reform of the ISEE calculation. It is a measure that aims, through the delegations, to support the parenthood and the educational and social function of families, to combat denatality, to enhance the harmonious growth of children and young people, as well as to reconcile family and working life, in particular for women. This last point is of fundamental importance and we have unfortunately touched on it with hand during the pandemic: the reconciliation of times and times can in fact allow work productivity and, together, family care. It follows that women can finally aspire to legitimate professional growth, without having to give up their role within the family. This also implies the freedom to choose to have more children and thus fight the plague of birth. The parental leave provided for in the measure also goes in the perspective of a change of cultural step, with the sharing of the responsibilities of care, and not only, entrusted by tradition to the woman. But we must be careful to maintain the right balance with the business world, on which a welfare system cannot be burdened without the right incentives. In fact, we must remember that it is the State that must guarantee the welfare system and the private can help to favor it. We must not forget that. [[Applause]] Young couples absolutely need it, because they are more affected by the difficulties arising from the present social organization. With the birth of a child they are invested with new and important responsibilities. Facilities operating on the territory are often insufficient or are not accessible due to too high costs. This is where action must be taken: not only with income support, but also with adequate services. One instrument that has been conceived with a view to supporting the family and stimulating the birth rate is the universal single allowance, which is already operational, but which, in reality, is merely income support because it is based on the calculation of the ISEE which, as I said before, must be absolutely reformed. Capital indicators are no longer in line with the real economic situation of households. For example, Minister, the first house should not be included in the calculation of the ISEE, because it would actually penalise many families. [[Applause]] It is therefore appropriate, Minister, for the agenda presented by all the parliamentary groups to commit the Government to go in this direction through the establishment of a table. The single allowance simplifies, because it absorbs the previous measures in support of the family, but it is not universal, because it is not intended for everyone. We are, therefore, still very far from other countries, such as Germany. Moreover, we must highlight the restrictive interpretations of the INPS for the increases, which emerged in these days, for families with more than four children, one of which is over twenty-one years old. There is a need for action and clarity on this too. In essence, we are all aware of the fundamental role of the family in Italy. Today, with the family act, we begin a path that must lead us to build a structural system, balanced, that is not only an income support, but also an effective tool to ensure serenity and security for families today and for those of tomorrow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u14	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is very important. It is now known my way of intervening, so as always I start with a thought that is not mine, because you can find it anywhere, but I think it is important to quote. What is family? The role of the family is very important in the life of each of us, because it helps us in times of difficulty, accompanies us, advises us, helps us to make decisions, corrects us, rejoices with us when we are successful, always hoping for the best for us. The family is the first environment in which the individual is inserted and relations with the family contribute to providing many of the fundamental tools for community integration. The educational project of the family requires harmony between the various members of the family itself, balanced growth of their personalities and this project is often carried out in an unconscious way, through the creation of a network of relationships and messages, which defines the mutual expectations and identity of those who are part of it. Without the family you can feel lost, not alone. This is the first thought I have, because the role of the family is fundamental for each of us. You can find this everywhere, but often this description is not consistent with the present way of life. Often the role of the family, as we see every day, has been deformed, debased, in some way has been reduced to a mere name: the family. It's often said: you're 40 now, you have to make a family. After a few years, the same person who created a family might say: I can't do this, because I "keep family." Over the years, the support, which I have well explained here, as a founding part of an individual, loses value to the point of becoming a burden. The family is a burden, the children can be a burden, the grandparents, the uncles, the elderly become a burden; everything is reduced to a purely economic situation: it costs too much, I can't do it, I can't. Therefore that fundamental concept, which should belong to each one of us from the moment of birth and in the path of his life, is completely disregarded. This discourse is linked to the measure under discussion and to the delegation to the Government of certain objectives that are fundamental, because they give the possibility, in such dark and difficult times as those we are going through, not to lose the meaning of this fundamental concept of family. We must help the family in all areas: we must support it from an economic point of view; we must help parenthood, help women who want to work and at the same time want to be mothers; we must help families because in these modern times the very concept of family has been lost. Perhaps a hundred years ago there were no mobile phones, there were no iPads, there was no technological connection, but there was the supply chain, the true sense of the family, the enlarged families who helped each other: the one with the most willingness helped the poorest; there was a relationship, indeed a network of relationships that made the family a group of large families, and for years, in the growth of man and society, it was so. With time, however, modernity, with its challenges that we have grasped, has significantly changed the way of pigs, but paradoxically reversing, however, the founding role of the family, reducing it to a problem. This measure, on the other hand, supports it and will certainly have to be completed because it contains delegations: we know that the delegation to the Government must be exercised, that we must get to concrete facts and its implementation. The draft law in question regulates and brings together a whole series of rules already in place, helping the family, the children and all the aspects that I have touched on, thus giving the opportunity to resume and revive the concept of family that we have gradually seen lost. There are also many daily news reports in the newspapers that tell us about families in which there are dramatic situations, about families who do not arrive at the end of the month and who do terrible acts, and about children living in situations of great discomfort. It is also important for citizens to know that the Government is putting in place a series of measures aimed at filling what very banally must be called loneliness, being alone in dealing with certain problems. I hope that this is only the beginning of the reordering of what has already been done, aware that surely you cannot reach everything and everyone, but that it is a first step that must be oriented towards further attention to this segment of life that we carry inside, often accompanied by the feeling that it is not important enough. Instead, the family is, because we all have a small or a large family; maybe ours is well and has no problems, but to turn the thought to those who have great difficulties is important. Let me at this moment, even if it has nothing to do with it, turn my thoughts - it is a constant thought that I have - to those who no longer have the family because they are at war. [[Applause]] War does not give discounts to anyone; the family in war loses it in the worst way, cruelly, and leaves a void that marks. Past history has taught us and we have many significant testimonies of the past, but apparently man has a short memory, otherwise we should not see what we see, the lonely children, the destroyed families and what this situation will bring us. Therefore, let us prepare for us, but also for others, for those we welcome, that we will have to welcome, because they no longer have the family; and if we make a serious and profound reflection, we know that they have not only loneliness, but an immense wound that money is not enough to repay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u17	Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today already contains its meaning and its direction in its summary terminology... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u18	Colleagues, please lower the volume of the item and allow the last intervention to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u19	MAUTON (M5S). The measure under consideration today, already in its summary terminology, contains its meaning and its address: family act. It wants to represent a particular attention to families, understood in their globality and in their - we might say - complex simplicity. The latter represents, precisely, its determining and characterizing imprint. The aim of the measures is to support the parenthood and the social and educational function of families, to which we want to recognize, through the additional and specific norms contained in this bill, their role as a fundamental pivot of the community, as a pillar of common life, as an indispensable bulwark for the contrast to the juvenile deviances and the growth of our community. These are just some of the motivational pillars that led to the drafting and incardination of this bill. There is a need for rules that are capable of decisively countering the birth rate, enhancing the growth process of children and young people and their expectations for tomorrow. Much attention has been paid to reconciling and finding the right balance of family life with work, recognizing the fundamental role of the physical presence of parents in the education and management of children. It is necessary that the work done by the parents no longer represents an obstacle, often insurmountable, to the development of the indispensable and irreplaceable active role that each of them, for their part, must have and carry out in the growth and psychophysical maturation of the children. The institutions must be able to take measures capable of supporting families, in particular those with the greatest economic and socio-cultural difficulties, and to measure the consequent interventions, support and economic benefits, in whatever form they may give, to their actual needs. Of course, special attention should be paid to families with fragile people and children with disabilities. We know well how many complex problems, not only economic ones, this involves in the difficult mechanisms of family balances: reconciling home, work and care is not easy at all and creates major organizational problems and psychodepressant implications often insuperable. Encouraging as much as possible for these caregiver parents the smart working, as requested with insistence by the Movimento 5 Stars, represents in this sense a first and convincing response. Who better than their father and mother can assist a child or a teenager with a physical disability or with an autistic spectrum disorder? I would like to stress, Mr President, the importance of adequate availability of nursery schools and public nursery schools, as also provided for in the fund dedicated to this purpose by the PNRR, which allocates some 3 billion to local authorities. I believe that this last priority, particularly in the South, is still paying for structural and organisational shortcomings in this area. There is a need for efficient, safe and adequate kindergartens for the social and working organisation of families. There are several support measures for the education of children. For example, I would like to stress, Mr President, the introduction of support for children's expenses in relation to their educational trips, their sports practice, language, art and music courses. So here is the globality of the interventions of attention and economic support that also embrace the social, cultural and everyday life of a family. I believe that these measures, like others, are particularly awaited because they are in favour of the poorest families. They, as a whole, will be able to facilitate this fundamental right to study, including through tax concessions and the provision of money. I would merely point out that the measure also provides for a reordering of parental leave of paternity and maternity, with the possibility of using it for working parents until the fourteenth year of the children's age. In order to ensure fair application of the rules, the same measures also favour the extension of parental leave rules to self-employed and self-employed workers. [[Applause]] I would like to point out another very important measure: the delegation to the Government provides for the promotion of women's work and a more appropriate organisation of living and working times for families. I could say, Mr President, that a clear concept is being reiterated on this issue, which has always been widely recognised: we must work to live better, not live badly just to work. As far as the financial autonomy of young people is concerned, I would like to highlight the planned tax concessions for the rental of the property used as a main residence and for the purchase of the first house in favour of young couples. The attention to families, their central role and the measures to deal with and counter their multiple difficulties has always been one of the priorities of the social agenda of the 5 Star Movimento, in its programs to support parenthood, the needs of children and their needs of progressive growth and maturation of the family unit in total. The latter is rightly regarded as an indispensable cell of the largest system constituted by our community. We could summarize this concept by saying that we pay attention to the needs of the individual while respecting the needs of the community. Certainly more and better will have to be done for the family institution, but the path taken goes in the right direction and seems to me an important moment of growth for our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u20	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u21	Mr President, before we move on to the reply, I would like to thank, not least, our officials and the Commission's offices who always accompany us in these measures with very important support. I would also like to thank my colleagues for their contributions, which show that the Commission is working very hard to draw up an opinion on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), which is intertwined with the measure we are considering. In addition to aid and economic support for families, there is a need for economic resources to be accompanied by the objective of strengthening social infrastructure and thus services. As noted by Senator Fedeli, the gender gap is in fact surpassed at territorial level, but also in a horizontal system scheme, through therefore system policies. I would like to thank all my colleagues once again and I hope that with the legislative decrees this Parliament will have an impact. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u22	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u23	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators and senators who have spoken in this debate. There are dates that have marked the history of our country with regard to measures related to the family institution and policies for the family. I would like to remind you here of two of them, also because they have seen protagonists women who have marked the path of our democracy. I am thinking of Law No 1204 of 30 December 1971, the law for the protection of mothers, proposed by Mr Tina Anselmi; and then the important reform of family law, Law No 151 of 19 May 1975, which was strongly desired by four Members of Parliament, among whom I would like to mention in particular Mr Nilde Iotti. Today this Assembly, with the vote it is about to express, marks another important date in this path of fulfilment of that clear and clear choice in our Constitution to make the family the place - you have called it the pivot - of the democratic fulfilment and development of the country. We do this at a time when this is even more important because of the urgency of history, which forced us to share the drama of the pandemic, with the consequent effects that have affected the families of our country and I believe that we must remember strongly that today we are still marked by the economic and financial effects of this period; and now the war, in a Europe that was experiencing peace, with the consequent energy crises that are hitting families together with the entire Italian production system. Let me remind you of our commitment and our concrete solidarity alongside the families of the Ukrainian people, torn apart, broken for an invasion and a war that is taking on traits of grave inhumanity. [[Applause]] Young Nilde Iotti, in front of the constituent assembly, said in her report: The family is now more than ever the primordial nucleus on which citizens and the State can and must rest for the material and moral renewal of Italian life and fundamental importance acquires the protection by the State of the family institution. Well, we have chosen today to make this protection not only a convincingly renewed commitment, but also an investment and we have done so by choosing the family act as one of the reforms accompanying the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, a lever of development, but above all an action of reform and renewal of the country with a systemic approach, you have remembered, and interconnected. We want to remove and resolve those fragility that has been an obstacle to the country's development. I am thinking about women's work, I am thinking about the lack of perspective for young people, I am thinking about the subject of Christmas. These are answers that we owe to the expectations of children and children, women and men who deserve to live in a country where their freedom, their expectations and their ambitions can be transformed into concrete life projects that really contribute to the progress of the whole of society. The demographic crisis is a serious fragility of our system, which is taking away the prospect, trust and hope of a large part of the population, and in particular - we must remember - to women and young people. Reversing this decline means returning to the country and our community the perspective of the future and to do so we have intended to propose an integrated reform that returns perspective and economic resources to families with a universalist principle clearly identified in the first article in letter a), a reform that invests and promotes equal opportunities through education and territorial services, a reform of parental leave that introduces a principle of full sharing of the loads of family care and that extends parental support to all categories of workers and workers. A reform that invests in women's work, because motherhood must no longer be a cost, neither personal, nor for businesses and to restore to women that freedom and dignity that President Mattarella reminded us to be the dignity of not having to be forced to choose between work and motherhood. It is a reform that invests in the autonomy and protagonism of young people, which means training, work, home. Let me also focus on today's debate, which has certified a method by which we come to the adoption of this law. It was born from a government bill - I thank the Senator Catalfo, who had signed it with me - and then enriched himself clearly in the parliamentary debate, with a transversal contribution of recomposition of different positions. That is why I have to say thanks to the work of the Commission chaired by Senator Matrisciano, who has really led to a measure today... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u24	Colleagues, please, do not honour this House, on such an important subject, the buzz (too generously I define it as such) that is accompanying the intervention of the Minister, also because then each Group on the theme of the family makes great petitions. I would therefore ask you to allow this speech to be concluded in an honourable way for this House. Please, Mrs. Minister, and excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u25	Thank you, President. I would like to focus on the clarity with which, as a government, we are presenting ourselves before the Senate today, aware that this reform must not have the identity of a single political part, but must be of everyone (and I hope that the vote will be represented) because it is a reform for which we must all make ourselves responsible in front of the country. It is a reform that must be of everyone because it is really for the whole country, not for a part; and not only for the country of today, but also for that of tomorrow. For this reason I thank the oppositions, who have worked with us and with the majority, both in the dialogue in the House and in the work in the Commission in the Senate. Through the vote on this provision we propose a new method to the country, the method of politics that, as Tina Anselmi said, is the art of mediation, a difficult art, which requires insight, study, application, honesty, attention to time and respect for words. I would like to thank President Matrisciano, the rapporteur for this draft law, for his work of great political mediation. I confirm the commitment of the Government to give full, rapid and concrete implementation, through the implementing decrees that I confirm want to build together with Parliament and all the forces of majority and opposition. This is a sign of the adoption of the agenda for the evaluation of the reform of the ISEE. Resources must be invested, we confirm that. In particular I confirm the commitment that Minister Franco has spent in accompaniment of this provision and I thank him for that. President Draghi often recalls the fact that our responsibility today is to give the country the taste and perspective of the future. The vote of this Assembly today is a sign of the assumption and full implementation of this responsibility, for today's country, but above all for the country of tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u26	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u27	Madam President, I withdraw my amendments, with the exception of Amendments Nos 1,102, 3,102, 4,100 and 4,102, for which I would also like to ask for the possibility of converting into agendas, with the commitment of the Government to assess the appropriateness of these amendments. I've already sent the texts to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u28	We were interested in Article 1, Senator Botto, on which there are retreats from him.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u29	BOTTO (Mixed). Mr President, it is correct that I withdraw Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,101 and I would ask that Amendment No 1,102 be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u30	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u31	Mr President, I call on all the amendments to Article 1 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them. I am in favour of the adoption of the G1,102 agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u32	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. The Government accepts the agenda G1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u33	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,100 and 1,101 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senators Drago and De Vecchis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u34	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments, otherwise the opinion will be against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u35	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u36	Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.100 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u39	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, this amendment by Brothers of Italy proposes the introduction of tax treatment to the family in proportion to the number of its members, with modulations for the spouse, the first, the second and the third children. This is what is known as a family quotient. The birth rate has been steadily falling for thirteen years, during which a negative record has been recorded each year for a number of reasons that are not just economic. Where you can intervene is here. We really need a jump and a strong change in this respect. Small measurements or even facades are not enough. We have already seen that the famous universal single family allowance (beautiful thing, especially in the title) is not actually universal and in many cases (we speak of hundreds of thousands of families, perhaps millions) means having less than before. We need strong measures, not these measures. Today a family, a couple or even single parents with children receive from the State, in terms of deductions and benefits, much less than what they have to pay in terms of VAT alone on what they have to buy for children. It must also be considered that a family with children needs a bigger car (also because not all Italians live in the ZTL where maybe everything is within reach of a short walk) and a larger house, which is then calculated to establish the income ISEE. Therefore, one risks getting out of these parameters because, having a family composed, for example, of four, instead of two people, one needs larger spaces. It cannot be said that there is no money, because, as Senator Pillon said well, if we lack resources for our future (i.e. children, who are the adults of tomorrow), why should we use them for other things? Is it more right to support families with children or find billions to give Benetton for the highway business? [[Applause]] Just in these days the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility has signed a document with which Autostrade for Italy is refunded to 100% of the missed collections cause Covid, while we know very well that thousands of companies have received 6, 1 or 10 percent. Is it better to find money for children or for the income of citizenship, with all its crooks, such as the incentive not to work? Is it better to find 5 or 10 euros a day, even less, with a family quotient for families or find 200 euros a day for children, who are taken away from families and given to family homes? In many cases these are justified acts, but in many others we see the consequences in phenomena such as that of the Bible. Unfortunately, there is not only Biblical, but there are hundreds, thousands of cases that the parliamentary committees also deal with. If you don't find the money for these things and find them for much more, it means that our future is not what we would like. Instead, Brothers of Italy wants our future to be based on families who have children and who can raise them in serenity and not in narrowness. Today, the difference between those who have children and those who do not have children, with a low average income, is between living discreetly and having really enormous difficulties to get to the end of the month. This cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u40	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. I would ask Senator Botto if he confirms the withdrawal of amendments 3,100 and 3,101, as well as the request for amendment 3,102 to be transformed into a round table.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u41	Yes, Mr. President, I confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u42	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u43	Mr President, there is also an invitation on Article 3 to withdraw or to reject all the amendments, including the additional ones. On the agenda, Mr G3,102, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u44	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments and confirm my support for the G3.102 agenda, replacing Amendment 31.02.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u45	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,100 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.101 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senators Drago and De Vecchis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u48	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, this amendment by Brothers of Italy calls for an extension of the period of maternity leave after childbirth to one hundred and eighty days. It would be a concrete and precise act to meet the needs of mothers and whole families. Evidently a child between three and six months of age needs a lot of care, certainly cannot be left alone and having someone to take care of him involves costs. I therefore believe this to be a perfectly reasonable proposal. I would also point out that, even now, the state of emergency for Covid-19 (then we have other states of emergency), mothers who belong to categories of workers subject to the vaccination obligation (there are several) are deprived of the maternity allowance, although they are on compulsory maternity leave, if they have not complied with the terms of vaccination (second and third dose). This is a completely unjustified issue, because the sense of these vaccination obligations is to avoid infection at the workplace, since it is believed that these categories have a particular danger of contagion. But a mother who is at home, on maternity leave, what danger does she pose to her colleagues? Now, the fact of depriving a mother of her livelihood (and there are even single mothers, I don't think that there is a need to remember it, but one forgets it when voting certain laws), without any justification from the point of view of contagions, I really find it unacceptable. I have never been able to talk about this in this House because there has always been confidence in those measures, but this is an opportunity to talk about it. We cannot pretend to help families when aberrant standards are adopted against mothers who have children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u49	Senator Malan, I would like to take advantage of your statement on Amendment 3.10 to point out to you that in the following Article 4 there is Amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Botto, on which the intention to turn it into an agenda has been anticipated, which would essentially have the same content as the amendment on which you spoke. I therefore ask you whether you intend to keep the amendment to the vote anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u50	This depends on the first signatory of the amendment, but I imagine we will keep it because the amendment obliges the government to do one thing, while we know how many times the government accepts an agenda but then does nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u51	We did not miss the meaning, but of course it was a possible choice. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we thought that we were voting on Article 3; for the Forza Italia Group the vote on Amendment 3.10 is against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Amendment 3,102 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3,102 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u52	Mr President, I withdraw Amendments Nos 4,100 and 4,102 and announce their transformation into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u53	I take note of that. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u54	Mr President, I call for the amendments tabled on Article 4 to be withdrawn, including the additional amendments, otherwise the opinion is against them. I am in favour of converting Amendments 4,100 and 4,102 into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u55	Mr President, the Government agrees with the rapporteur's opinion and accepts the agendas resulting from the transformation of amendments 4,100 and 4,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u56	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4101 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.7 tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4.102 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.100 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u57	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u58	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u59	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5,100 and 5,101 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5,102 and 5,103 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u60	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u61	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u62	Amendment 6,100 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.2 tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.3 tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u63	Mr President, I call for amendment 7.1 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u64	Mr President, I call for amendment 7.1 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u68	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bonetti, representatives of the Government, after a long examination, this delegation law finally arrives in the Chamber. Like all ambitious projects, it has great advantages but also the limits that are likely to cause this opportunity to fail. The most important aspect is to have the principle that female equality begins first at home, with a new balance in the division of family duties and in the care of children. This equation, which is the basis of the welfare policies of Northern Europe, enters for the first time so clearly into the Italian system. From here comes a precise and exhaustive list of the type of interventions necessary and that will be at the center of the implementing decrees. Noteworthy is not only the effort on the employment of women, but also the centrality offered to the educational paths of children, with the idea that sport, the third sector and cultural use are all elements in need of attention by the State. On the employment of women and on the reconciliation of the times of life and work I agree that paradoxically today, if there is a danger, it is in the smart working. We all appreciated the benefits during the pandemic, but the Minister is right to say that for too many women it has turned into a trap: not a conciliation, but doing at the same time three jobs, i.e. those of the office, the home and the care of the children. The basic theme is always the same: how do we encourage a different organization of families with a fair division of the tasks of care of children and domestic work between the two parents? Article 3 of the law speaks extensively of the extension of parental leave, on which the Council of Ministers intervened last week. The fact that leave is extended is a good thing, but it is a pity that both the law and the decrees just issued do not address the problem of pay. In 2020, there are only 22% of men who have benefited from it, compared with 78% of women: this is because women earn less and therefore it is natural that in order to mitigate the economic impact of abstaining from paid work on family budgets, they opt for this solution. In countries where 80% of the salary is paid, the measure has had the desired effects, contributing to a real rebalancing of roles. Not to mention the importance of premium incentives for men who take at least part of the months of leave for the couple, with the recognition of additional months of leave. In short, we have to put more money, because the economic trends say it clearly: in the last twenty-five years, in Italy, the only positive balances on the birth rate have been recorded in the regions with the highest female employment. Today, if you want to try to reverse the course that Italy sees to age and depopulate, everything goes from the female occupation and the more general discourse to put more resources to the benefit of women. This speech, Mrs. Minister, also applies to the issue of the single allowance for separated couples. As you know, the rules provide that, in the event of separation or divorce, the beneficiary of the allowance is the parent who has custody of the child, but since almost all separate couples now have shared custody, it would have been more appropriate to recognize the allowance in favour of the parent with whom the children are predominantly placed. Of course, the parent who does not have the prevailing placement of the child may give up his allowance quota in favour of the other parent, but it is a path that few are following, as many women complain these days. It is not a matter of little account: it is the parent from whom the children are mainly placed to give up a part of paid work, working part-time, while the other parent is usually able to continue with his full-time employment. But there are also those parents - and unfortunately there are not few - who do not care about their children at all and sometimes do not even pay the maintenance contribution. Now these should also collect half of the single check? I really hope, Mrs Minister, that we will take action as soon as possible. In conclusion, I believe that the issue on which all measures must converge is the economic independence of women. It benefits the birth and emotional growth of children, who see the presence of both parents, and frees women from those forms of addiction which are one of the reasons why some cannot get rid of violent partners. Paradoxically, it would also be an advantage for husbands, who, with the traditional division of tasks, risk paying a high maintenance contribution after a separation. In the Nordic countries, the contribution to maintaining the partner after the separation has almost disappeared. If politics puts resources on the family, certifying existing relationships of strength, i.e. without cultivating the ambition to change them, it has lost an important part of its function. In the 21st century, it must promote equality and make equal behavior convenient in the everyday lives of families, protecting more those who take more responsibility for the growth of their children in cases of separation. I really hope that with this very important measure we will try to do all this. We in the Autonomy Group will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u71	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bonetti, the family has been the glue and cement that has kept our society together in recent years, especially in times of great difficulty caused by the pandemic and the consequent economic and social crisis, which still bites strongly today. In fact, for so many situations of fragility it has been, to all intents and purposes, a social shock absorber that has not generated fractures, but has simply deflagrated the many criticalities, the so-called not said in recent years. All this not thought and not acted has often left on the families loneliness, difficulty, uncertainty in intercepting the challenges of our time; it has exacerbated the gaps between generations, those of gender and geographical ones, in the contrast between internal areas and metropolitan areas. All the difficulties we experienced as legislators during the pandemic, noting that the legislative instruments, the instruments available to the institutions were weak, lacked an overall vision to respond to the different needs of families, citizens and especially young people. It is for this reason that the family act becomes structural reform accompanying the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), a great opportunity for our country to fill fractures and fragility, to relaunch social cohesion and to share by investing precisely on the family. I have often heard that the family act is an empty box, but that is precisely the point: in recent years there has been no box within which to graft policies related to the growth of the country in support of situations of difficulty. Thanks to the family act our country, for the first time in its history, recognizes the role of the family in its economic, social and cultural dimension, states that the family exists in its complexity, in its cultural, economic and social dimension. The family act acts on so many levels because it looks at the family in a different way. What does it mean to look at the family differently? Finally, through the measure in our examination, the size of individuals within the communities and the individual choices intercepted within a social context that focuses on institutions, businesses and the third sector. The family act takes on more of the daily complexity that live, for example, families with people with disabilities, large families, families who live in a condition of poverty and difficulty, families who have paid in recent years the gap, also cultural, in access to social inclusion tools, families where parents are self-employed and families with VAT matches. These are the same problems that we faced during the pandemic with weak and almost never coordinated instruments. At the same time the family act allows us to think and conceive policies for the family on two axes, support first, but also promotion. Support for many areas of everyday life. Let's think, for example, of one of the priority axes of the family act, the universal single cheque that has become structural since January 1, 2022, from the seventh month of life up to the age of majority. However, the family act is so much more; it is not only taking responsibility for the management of the family economy, but it is, for example, taking charge of educational costs and services. How much in the pandemic has the lack of services really represented a gap between the social classes, between generations, between geographical areas? Services means kindergartens, which are often absent in our country. In fact, there are areas in the country that do not even see the presence of this service. With the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), we started to reduce this gap, giving a priority programming role to municipalities and local authorities. The role of promotion and support, however, must necessarily be linked, if we want to think about future generations and our young people, also everything that completes our children and our girls. I am referring to access to cinema, theatre, so-called non-conventional education, which sees local authorities as active actors and the third sector itself in a subsidiary way, which is the most powerful and tangible instrument of democracy. In the same way it is - and it is mentioned in the family act and in the many implementing instruments that its Ministry has already put in place - the valorization of the so-called disciplines STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). If we are to build and guide the presence of women in the world of work, we must also strengthen those tools that allow access to knowledge, to the learning of so-called scientific subjects that are that important and fundamental link with the demands and needs of innovation coming from the world of work. The family act, therefore, is above all the construction of an economic model as well as a social one. The family, through the instruments we have provided ourselves with from the legislative point of view, and therefore also from a cultural point of view and from a factual point of view, becomes a legal model and a fiscal model. The universal single allowance is not just a reorder of scattered measures, it is an overview of the perspective of family support measures. The family act is also implementation, the real node of this historic moment. People want to see concretely the measures implemented in their everyday lives. This is also a key point in the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. How does it work? This must necessarily be done by creating alliances with the territories, with local authorities, with the third sector and with businesses, and it is for this reason that it is a family act that becomes a backbone of the PNRR, which sleeps together with all those measures that are already operational and that will have to lead us, in the perspective, for example, to make the gratuitousness of the kindergartens structural. Today we have important measures that provide support of up to 3,000 euros, but this cannot and must not be enough, as compared to the strategic plan 2021-2026 for gender equality, which includes some elements that for Italy Viva are fundamental. If we want to facilitate and support the active presence of women in the world of work, we cannot fail to act on certain levers, for example on decontribution. We are absolutely to encourage, and help businesses to inject young people and women into the world of work with a strong injection, because we need them and because we also need their load of humanity and innovation. The universal single cheque acts on some important levers. Some of them have already been mentioned: support for educational and training expenditures, the reconciliation of living and working times, and the latter always revolves around services and we today have the opportunity, in this Parliament, to respect the policies that will then be implemented in the territories, to co-design and really co-manage urban policies, policies related to territories compared to those and which services serve families in their complexity. At the same time, we must finally talk about the protagonism and decision-making power of young people in our society. I am referring, for example, to housing policies, support for rent or policies linked to job integration or lifelong learning. This is the family act: work, income, skills, time and participation in the active life of the country. Often, when we talk about numbers in the relationship between the elderly and the working population, we focus on the numerator. True, the data tells us that our population is getting older and we see it also in the way that services change within our community and, for example, our health system and our pension system are and will be increasingly put to the test. Now, however, we need to focus on the denominator, the active population, all those young people who have to enter the world of work and all those women who deserve leadership. Minister Bonetti, thank you. Thanks to her determination, thanks to her continuous and Carthusian work, she managed to bring the ideas born two years ago to Leopolda to be shared and enriched in the parliamentary debate through the contribution of all the Groups. For this reason, I declare the Italian Group Viva-PSI's vote in favour and convinced of this very important measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u74	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, Minister Bonetti, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here today, first of all with some data on which we should all bitterly reflect: 1.3 children per woman is the average today in Italy, with a first child who is on average at the age of thirty-one. The demographic dynamic of 2021 continues to be negative and the natural balance of the population is always strongly negative: as of December 31, 2021 - I report some Istat data - the population resident in Italy amounted to almost 59 million units, 250,000 less than the same date of 2020. This is certainly due to the dramatic excess of mortality caused by the Covid, to the strong contraction of migratory movements, but even more to the decrease of births, which, coming below the threshold of 400,000, has recorded a new historical minimum by the unity of Italy. The non-enviable record, which does not reach 400,000 units, and the high number of deaths, more than 700,000, continue to aggravate a negative natural dynamic that characterizes our country for several years. However - and here we must focus, ladies and gentlemen - this is not a European and Western theme; we cannot hide behind these figures behind the screen of modern society, which focuses on economic growth at the expense of demographic and social growth. Of course, it is noted that for decades our modern society has been less focused on the needs of the family. But some European data lead us to think that the demographic crisis in Italy is more serious than in other countries. If in our borders we have said that a woman does not reach the average of 1.3 children, in countries like Germany and France we approach the two units for each woman. France, in particular, is characterised by fertility rates which have always been much higher than in the rest of the European Union. In 2009, this index was equal to two children per woman and, despite a decrease, the average number of children per mother remains high. Why is this happening? Why is this figure recorded in France, while in Italy we are witnessing a continuous contraction of births? Where does this problem come from, if not from the shy policies that have been adopted in recent years on such a sensitive subject? I want to be clear from the outset, Senator colleagues and fellow Senators, in declaring that Brothers of Italy has always and unequivocally fought for everything that can be of support to the growth of the birth rate in this country. [[Applause]] Brothers of Italy was available, and always will be, to sit at tables that can help the family, which, as Pope John XXIII said, is the first essential cell of human society. We have been available, and will always be, in implementing policies that, inspired by other nations, are able to offer free educational services or to promote cooperation between the private and the public in implementing policies to support the growth of the birth. We have always been in favour of implementing policies of leave for paternity and motherhood that are more significant than those that are now recognised, both in terms of numbers and in terms of economics. Our battle, Minister Bonetti, is to offer unique checks for dependent children to all and not just to some. From our point of view, in fact, the right to have a child must not see distinctions of social class or geographical areas. However, ladies and gentlemen, despite the closeness to this issue and the sensitivity with which we want to address it, we are obliged to announce our abstention on this measure. This is a grievous abstention, but not because we are opposed to some of the decisions taken by the draft law in question, but because we believed - and we still believe this - that something more could be done and must be done. Minister, we were expecting more courage from you on this issue. We expected more reliable times in which to study and build this measure, we expected more resources and funds to counter a hemorrhage of births, which in the future could have devastating consequences for our society and for our country. The Brothers of Italy Group, as already announced in the Chamber of Deputies, has been voted against a series of changes that is right, such as the promotion of part-time as a choice for mothers. There has been a vote against aid to enterprises for the recruitment of new mothers or young women, or against the gratuitousness of childcare, which we find essential for both the child and the family. Minister, we expected something more about the recalculation of the ISEE, which is an essential instrument for the application of aid to young families. We expected more courage on paternity leave or early retirement for working mothers with three children. Finally, we expected some intervention for international adoptions, which are, unfortunately, today a road that can now be travelled by a few, who want to assure small, often unlucky, a better future. That is why, Minister, our vote today will be abstention. We do not want to be complicit in any way in a measure that does not find the answers we were looking for, just as we do not want to be complicit in a series of decisions that do not have the strength to implement the policies that our country needs today. We certainly recognize, Mr Bonetti, especially you and many of your colleagues in the majority, that we have tried to improve this measure. We recognise, with the usual intellectual honesty that distinguishes us, that there have been some significant agendas in the Commission and we have been assured that we will re-evaluate the criteria for the ISEE parameters. However, Mr President, in conclusion, the Brothers of Italy Group on a sensitive issue such as this we had very different expectations. We of the Brothers of Italy Group have always been at the side of the family and of all those who fight for it with strength and determination. That is why, Minister Bonetti, I say to you and to all the Members of the Assembly, that on this theme, Brothers of Italy, as well as it will not do discounts from the opposition desks, will never escape from constructive tables, where we can fight to carry out noble battles, such as those aimed at the contrast of the birthday or at the side of the family. The interest of the Italians and the Nation is for us primary and certainly will not be lacking, today or in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u77	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, when, with almost unanimous approval, the House kept its promise to the country to make universal and coherent the economic support of the State for the birth and families with children, we shared a moment of deep satisfaction, but we knew that we had just begun. We knew that we were at the beginning of a path that should have passed from here, from the nodal point where we are now, and from here we finally lead to a change of paradigm, capable in the near future of finally aligning ourselves with Europe. At today's vote we arrived with the stubbornness of those who understood that they had taken the right path and perhaps have to accept the risk of putting a foot in the foul and falling, and then rising, leaving some providence behind, rather than stopping and dilating the time distance that separates us from goals that no longer procrastinable. Social equity and well-being, but also growth and competitiveness are the goals clearly outlined by the family act. I therefore feel like thanking the Chamber of Deputies for the wise and delicate seam of the text that delegates the Government to the adoption of decrees aimed at increasing the employment of women, the birth rate, the services, the educational activities and the opportunities given to young people to become autonomous. In particular, I feel that I should like to thank my compaeras and compaeros of the Democratic Party, in whose work I fully recognize myself as the result of constant intercourse with this branch of Parliament. We weren't absent. [[Applause]] Finally, I thank the Government, in the person of Minister Bonetti, for the opening given to the senators and senators sharing the writing of the implementing decrees. Minister, thank you once again for repeating this in your reply this morning. The dynamics of the Assembly of these last few days show us that we can play team games even beyond mere amending activity and I believe it is a good testimony to the acceptance of some acts of direction, including the one for the establishment of a technical table aimed at a possible revision and different combination of the parameters of the ISEE calculation system that are the basis of the provision of the main economic support provided by the family act: the single and universal cheque, which a year ago we greeted - all together - as an extraordinary signal of change in policies for families. The agendas accepted and the constant dialogue with the Chamber of Deputies allowed us not to suffer the lack of margins in the amendment of the text of the law, in fact efficient regulatory activity, and have completed the picture of the actions necessary for the fulfilment of that change of paradigm of which I told you in premise. But why do I insist on talking about paradigm change? In the past, as the Minister herself said in her reply today, family policies have suffered from the most common destiny reserved by Parliament for major reforms, namely fragmentation, proving not only insufficient, but often confused and contradictory in their aims. The draft law that we are preparing to vote today makes clear the results that it intends to achieve, with a structural system approach that will positively influence other transformations expected by the country and become an integral part of it. In my view, of particular importance is the principle that aims to promote gender equality within households, particularly where action is taken on promoting women's employment and incentives are identified for women to return to the labour market after maternity. Central is the theme of the equitable distribution of care loads among parents. We all count, in fact, Istat data contained in the BES 2020 report of March 2021, which underline the difficulties in our country to achieve a balance in the reconciliation between work and time of life. Among the reasons that complicate the achievement of this objective is a distribution of domestic and care work within the family still unbalanced in favour of women, which forces them more often to adjust extra-domestic activities according to the work of care. The radical change envisaged in the chapter on parental and paternity leave, which should also be extended to self-employed workers and professionals, should continue to reverse the course. Compared with the provisions already laid down in the law on leave, the commitment is added, written in black and white, on another agenda that we have signed, with which we intend to extend and diversify the benefits to the benefit of people who are called to provide care and long-term care for severely ill family members. On the same line, there is another act of direction, which has found acceptance and brings to the fore the issue, which has not yet been resolved, of the recognition of the role of family caregivers. There is also a question of equity, which concerns access to social and educational services for children and adolescents by families. A question that is double-linked with measures to combat child education poverty in high-risk areas such as the outskirts. It is clear, therefore, that universality and equal opportunities are the two directions along which the law of delegation moves. Directors who have as protagonists parents, but equally daughters and sons in the different ages of life until reaching a condition of autonomy. The greatest ambition concerns them, the possibility that we give them to become adults, to grow up, even to come to the world, if we think about it, and especially the possibilities that we will give them to choose which citizens and citizens to be tomorrow. On the basis of these arguments, I welcome the support of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u80	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us delegates to the Government for the support and enhancement of the family, affecting different subjects and areas. It's a pretty complex articulate. In these new articles we begin by specifying the aims of the regulatory intervention, which contains provisions of delegation to the Government for the adoption, reorganization, strengthening of norms aimed at supporting the parenthood and the social and educational function of families; to enhance the harmonious and inclusive growth of children and young people; to support the independence and financial autonomy of the latter, as well as to facilitate the reconciliation of family life with the work of both parents and to support in particular the female one. Then the general principles and guiding criteria of Article 1 are laid down, to which the Government must adhere in the exercise of future delegations, then specified by further specific guiding principles and criteria laid down in subsequent articles. There is immediately a very common principle of universal application of benefits, obviously having to operate on finite resources, according to criteria of progressiveness (it then specifies) based on the applications of the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) which, although with all its limits, is a criterion adopted also in other areas of regulatory intervention. Of course, this shows a sensitivity and attention that they rightly wanted to pay. In fact, if we look at the whole measure well, at least in my view, it seems to be one of those happy legislative interventions that give concrete implementation to the famous provision on substantive equality, provided for in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution. In this case the Government and the parliamentary legislator are working to remove obstacles of an economic and social nature, which effectively limit the freedom and equality of citizens in the family, preventing the full development of the human person. That's how I like to interpret this intervention. The Minister said that it must be a reform of all and we believe that we share this approach. I think that the attention paid to the economically and socially weaker sectors of our country is an added value, which goes beyond the shared will to intervene in support of families, but it also reveals a sensitivity and a far-sightedness that must be rewarded, as it will be on our part, announcing already the favorable vote. It is good to stress another aspect which, in our view, must be valued and appreciated, that is, the attention paid, thanks also to the interventions made in the Chamber of Deputies, to the disabilities, both when they are the children themselves with disabilities (in Article 2), and in the families where a disabled person is present. Here too, the delegation given to the Government pays particular attention to ensuring that the support measures, in the various areas in which they take place, take these aspects into account. I believe that this intervention can also be seen as a removal of social obstacles which prevent, in the family context, the full realization of the human person. Moreover, I think it is worthwhile, in relation to parental leave, in addition to having extended the minimum period of parental leave to the fourteenth year of the child's age, instead of the 12th currently planned, to have introduced paternity leave. The principle is laid down that this right is granted irrespective of the civil or family status of the employed father, that he is not subject to a certain length of employment, that he is also guaranteed on a level playing field for workers in public administrations and that the duration of compulsory paternity leave is longer than that laid down in the legislation in force and progressively increased to 90 working days. This is also an absolutely welcome measure, as is the fact that the implementation of the delegations will be monitored and verified for the impact, recalling the body already created by Law No 46 of 2021, relating to the universal single cheque. We do not, therefore, see any criticality in the text and, indeed, as I was trying to illustrate, there is an overall vision absolutely to be welcomed. I also found it particularly welcome - hoping that, when the time comes, it will be enhanced by the delegation, because I am one of the many colleagues who follow with particular attention the issue of energy transition and innovation - the reference contained in the letter (e) of the second paragraph of Article 5, in which, for children under the age of eighteen, tax breaks are provided for the frequency of training courses for the new professions related to innovation, digitalization and self-entrepreneurship. I believe that this is a novelty that goes beyond the institutional framework in the school report of alternating school work, because we will certainly need new professionalism. This applies more to the school world than to the family world, but it is good that this call is also contained. Finally, it is welcome that measures in support of families should be reorganised, including with regard to older children and off-site students, and that the government should be able to intervene in the regulatory field, as well as to clarify and promote the economic commitments of those who have out-of-the-seat university students; moreover, as I return to the removal of social obstacles, I think of the clear support measure that will have to be addressed to the less well-off families for the purchase of school books, in order to guarantee the right to study. In essence, the text is truly acceptable and I hope it will be the reform of everyone. Obviously in the future we will follow (we hope we can do so, but we must think that the next Parliament will do so) the implementation with the legislative decrees of this measure, which certainly sees us in favour. For this reason I announce the vote in favour of the Mixed-Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u83	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it should first of all be noted that part of the measures of this draft government's own initiative law has already entered into force. This is the single cheque, which was also included in the draft law approved last year, so we can already assess the real effects both of the amount of the cheque arrived in March by the INPS on the accounts of Italians, and of the lack of family allowances in the payrolls of employees. The fact that it is bound to the ISEE indicator makes sure that the cheque is not only linked to income, but also to the family heritage and both the Matrisciano president and my colleague Toffanin have already expressed themselves on all the critical issues that this entails. Whoever has children has realized that the single allowance certainly cannot reveal a policy for the family alone. Other measures are needed and, above all, additional resources are needed. We certainly appreciate the fact that additional 6 billion has been allocated to cover these measures in addition to the resources provided by funds, cheques and bonuses for the family, reaching a total budget (here the figures are a bit dancers) between 19 and 20 billion. The resources in our view should be distributed differently, carefully assessing the effects on the middle class, which is what should be most encouraged to create a family, for many socio-economic reasons. Above all, therefore, they should find an additional tax incentive for all the expenses that a family incurs for the education and training of their children. This is above all the added value that must be included in any future action of the Minister for the Family: using resources to introduce tax reductions for young people who study, who commit themselves, who ensure that they improve their preparation. The training of young people, in our view, is worth more than any active policy, since it takes place at an age when learning is greater. Before this, however, an effective reform in favour of the birth rate should start from the structure of the tax system, modeling it on the needs of the family. Let's remember that the tax reform desired by President Berlusconi, through an articulated system of deductions, provided for a tax model formed family. The model should be that of the countries where the tax lever is the basis of the policies in favour of the family. In the United Kingdom, in France, Germany, Spain, in all Western countries with a higher birth rate than in Italy, family income is taxed more favorably than in the Italian system where, on the contrary, the individual is taxed. In Italy, last in Europe, the birth rate is seven births per 1,000 inhabitants, while the European average is 9.5; but there are countries, like Ireland, that reach 12.5 births per 1,000 residents. EU average figures now see a household expenditure of 2.2% of GDP, compared with 1.5% in Italy, but with peaks of 3.4% of Danish expenditure, 3.3 of German expenditure and 2.4 of French "cousins" compared to their gross domestic product. That is what we are asking Mr Bonetti, for whom we appreciate the work he has done so far and to which we must acknowledge an unprecedented commitment, and that is what we are asking Parliament for: the adjustment of GDP, as well as in the European averages. Soon we will be presented with the DEF, the Document that plans public expenditure for the next three years. A further step must be taken, first of all by increasing the budget of policies for the family, with the increase in measures for family, children's and their training and knowledge compared to GDP. Investing in children and their growth as individuals is the best investment the State can make. We are less than 500,000 born every year in Italy, as other colleagues have mentioned, with a trend decreasing gradually since the beginning of the 2000s. It is therefore necessary that the positive cultural change and the good intentions of the text desired by Minister Bonetti, who has in his hands a broad and articulated delegation, can succeed in adopting policies that can reverse this negative trend. This means fighting the birthday that rages: from 1 million born in the seventies and eighties, we are now at about 450,000. Some welfare measures in favour of the family provided for in this text, such as additional paid leave, should however be measured with the reality of millions of very small companies, where the absence of a father or a mother may not be functional to the economy of that small business. As well as the carrying out of agile work, which is now being encouraged as an ordinary way of carrying out work, can work well in public administrations, but in private, in some sectors, it will be more difficult to apply: of this you, Mrs. Minister, surely you are aware of it. As an alternative to the use of overtime leave, we believe that the use of baby-sitting services and facilities that take care of children should be fiscally encouraged, as is also envisaged in the PNRR. To all women, not only to public employees or large companies that have their own corporate welfare, who often leave their jobs after their first child, there are credible alternatives that are not available in the single check only. Part-time is also an option that is not always possible, since in some cases it reduces family income in terms of subsistence. Even under these conditions, the tax policy formed by the family must therefore, Madam Minister, find a solution. An integrated network of care services is required if it is not present on the territory, or at least the possibility to deduct or tax deduction of all expenses incurred in managing a family. (at 12.11 a.m.) (Floris followed). The draft law, which also aims to encourage women's work, does not propose adequate solutions for self-employed women and the mere forecast of two years of aid for start-ups for women entrepreneurs is insufficient. Moreover, I would like to remind you that the mere statistic tells us that 65% of start-ups do not arrive at the end of the fourth year. Therefore, especially young people and young people must be helped first and foremost through proposals to safeguard their income stability. Decontribution to hiring an indefinite young person should be the starting point of any family policy. Young people should be given the opportunity to confront themselves in a labour market that must be dynamic and inclusive and with favourable housing policies. But his task, Minister, is even more important and it is to be a spur, within the action of the Government, to adopt all fiscal policies and to welfare to complete to implement the family act. So, Minister Bonetti, go ahead, with the support of Forza Italia, on this fundamental reform, because improving the prospects for the future, improving the living conditions of families, will have a complete impact on the entire Italian community, drawing the future society in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u86	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Minister, the bill that we are going to vote on, which delegates to the Government for the support and enhancement of the family, provides for the adoption of measures to support parenthood and aims to help families and young couples who want to move away from the original core to build their own life plan, to start flying with their wings towards the future. A future that politics has a duty to protect and support. It is a starting point, which emphasizes the family theme. We need to do much more and it is essential to work in this direction to achieve measures that really improve the lives of families. In Italy, the family theme is central, both from a cultural and social point of view. We are, in fact, one of the countries in which this aspect is stronger and more distinctive. The family is the fundamental social nucleus and is the basis of our educational and training system; the Constitution itself affirms its value and the need for protection. Despite the centrality recognized culturally, socially and constitutionally to the early social formation in which the individual develops, the family in recent years has been debased by a unique thought, which someone has tried to impose. [[Applause]] A unique thought that tried to distort it and make it less and less central. In Italy the legislation that protection is completely inadequate and our feeling often runs counter to a legal system that does not support it as it should. We consider this measure to be a first step in trying to adapt legislation to the social changes that have been going on for a long time. The family itself has changed over the years, along with society. Unfortunately, legislation has not been updated and has remained anchored to a self-managing family model, where roles were well defined. The present family has different needs and its members have legitimate aspirations, far from those of the past, and politics has the task of intervening in favor of its development. We here have a duty to do so, a duty which is dictated to us by Article 31 of the Constitution, when it states: The Republic shall facilitate with economic measures and other provisions the training of the family and the performance of the related tasks, with particular regard to large families. It protects motherhood, childhood and youth, encouraging the institutions necessary for this purpose. The draft law in question, the so-called family act, includes measures that are part of the reforms provided for by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, intended for families with children and in order to promote the parenthood and the social and educational function of families, to combat denatality, to enhance the harmonious growth of girls and children, promoting the financial autonomy of young people and the reconciliation of family life with work, in particular women. It is only the first step in a path that we hope will lead to measures that really help households. Denatality, amplified in an exponential way also by the Covid epidemic, is a problem that can no longer be neglected. It is a phenomenon that for the dimensions reached needs a clear and concrete intervention from the Government. That is what we expect and ask. [[Applause]] We must put young people in a position to have children and we have a duty to ensure that their family desire is not opposed by the uncertainty of tomorrow. We must do so by means of rules that allow working mothers to continue to work so that they no longer have to choose between the desire to become mothers and the desire to become mothers professionally. Unfortunately, reconciling work with the care of children involves a review of the times, a reorganization of one's life and priorities, and this is difficult. Not rarely does a high percentage of women leave their jobs after giving birth to a child. Policies are needed to reconcile these two aspects of a woman's life, flexible leave and work organization measures, which encourage women to return to work after maternity. We cannot allow a new mom to be forced to give up her job. This must be one of our objectives and our action must be aimed at achieving it. It is essential for us to create a path of rules that really and concretely help young people who want to create their own family, facilitating their economic and social independence. We believe that it is the task of the State to intervene by providing services that can help parents to face the phase after the birth of a child, which represents a radical change in the life of a man and a woman. Contributions are needed to cover the costs to be borne by new parents for kindergartens and infancy schools. We also hope that the services that support families with home services will be activated for those who have children or children under six years of age. Both parents must be placed in a position to continue working and cannot be restrained in their aspirations by the construction of their dream of life. We consider the birthday a great defeat for our country and we have always fought to support parenting. Action is also needed to promote greater equality within the family. Family roles must be complementary and interchangeable. This would allow the mother to continue her work and not give up her legitimate career expectations. The rules must change together with society and the needs of the people to whom they are addressed. What has been done so far with the universal single cheque is a first approach to solving the problem, but it is not enough. The universal single grant on the one hand simplifies the procedure of access to the measure, deburring it, making it more streamlined and simplified; on the other hand, however, it does not fully satisfy families, especially the larger ones. It is therefore only the beginning of a path in which the League wants to be an active part. We believe that the direction taken is the right one, but much more needs to be done. The family act contains a series of provisions that try to respond to needs in a broad and integrated way, grasping the necessarily complex and multidimensional aspects of the problems that affect our country related to the denatality and ability of families to support their children. The negative trend must be reversed as soon as possible with incisive interventions aimed at combining parenthood with the working prospects of both parents. We must allow couples to bring forth children without fear of the future. Some of the measures included in the text go in this direction. On this occasion too, I would like to stress that our objective is to protect all families with children, not excluded. We hope that there will be no more serious families and families of series b and that all workers, regardless of the activities they carry out, will have access to the facilities provided for those who bring a child into the world. Common sense therefore invites us to extend the rules on parental leave also to self-employed workers with specific measures that assess the needs and peculiarities of the various professions, giving them the same opportunities and the same protection as employees. It is also desirable to encourage employers involved in the implementation of policies that harmonise private and professional life and promote the conjugation of these two aspects, which are equally important and fundamental to the lives of each individual. Using the instrument of flexible work, agile work, teleworking and smart working for mothers and fathers in the post-birth period and in the first months and years of the child's life is definitely a good start to meet the needs of those who want to create a family. As a Group, we agree with the Government, which has already expressed its support by accepting an agenda, which is shared by the whole Commission. I would like to thank our President and rapporteur, Mrs Matrisciano, for this and also for the way in which she has carried out the work. We agree on the opening of a technical working table on the drafting of the implementing decrees in order to ensure the widest possible involvement of the institutional actors concerned, so that the rules are balanced on the real needs of the users of the measures and facilities. [[Applause.]] The table is a useful means of comparison that we hope will give substance and concreteness to the intentions of the extensors of the bill in question. The measures contained in this measure are urgent, Senator Pillon has already spoken about the issue of the ISEE and the current calculation mechanism which is not appropriate. Because of a sense of responsibility towards Italians, towards those in clear economic difficulty and towards what we are here to represent, it is certainly necessary to proceed quickly and, as happened in the House, we also show in this House that we really care about the needs of citizens and their future. For all these reasons I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u89	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that we are about to approve today brings to completion a path started two years ago with the Government Count 2, a path that that Government has started to give a concrete response to millions of Italian families, putting them really at the centre with massive investments. For this reason, we at Movimento 5 Stars are particularly proud. [[Applause]] The so-called family act, a law for the family, delegates the Government to implement all necessary measures to help couples who wish to become parents and to support the educational and social function of families in order to enhance the healthy and serene growth of children and girls, boys and girls, as well as to allow couples to be parents and to continue working, especially women. In addition, the aim of this measure is to reorganise all the economic and social measures envisaged today in a single regulatory framework for the benefit of the family. Before reviewing some particularities of this delegation law, I would like to refer to the current demographic, social and economic context. Italy is at the last places in Europe by birth rate, that is to say few children are born and allow me, President, but is someone really retrograde in this House to blame the decrease in births at a stroke of civilization, that is to say to recognize all men and women equal rights and equal dignity regardless of their emotional and sexual orientation? [[Applause]] I give news to these souls who come to us from the Middle Ages: today there are children without protection because some mayors refuse to record their acts of birth precisely because of these prejudices. [[Applause]] What must worry us, however, is the fact that our country, unfortunately, still sees the decline in births. By 2018, almost 130,000 fewer units, in the face of an increase in deaths and one of the main causes is the inexorable and progressive ageing of the population and a lack, until the time of this law delegation, of a system of welfare and adequate support. The demographic decline in recent years has not stopped even in the pandemic period. In 2020, and for the twelfth consecutive year, a further negative record was recorded in the balance between live and dead births, a decrease of 300 units. Not even in 1917, in the midst of the Great War, had such a threshold been reached. After a hundred years, colleagues and colleagues, we find ourselves living in the same situation of uncertainty that seems to be the constant paradigm with which we are getting used to living together. In this context, the experience of parenthood seems to be a further source of concern especially for young people, who almost always for economic reasons postpone it or even avoid it. Istat estimates that the average number of children per woman is 1.29, while the average age at the time of birth of the first child is over thirty-one. In this context, the picture that emerges by analysing the data on the female employment rate, which, compared to the male one, says a lot about a country in which the increase in the number of children widens the employment gap between genders, to the detriment unfortunately of women, who are in fact forced to choose between career and family and whose participation in the labour market still remains marginal and at the bottom of the European Union countries. It is for all these reasons that the Movimento 5 Stars continues to work with constancy and seriousness in order to make to approve norms that bring this country in an increasingly suitable situation to guarantee women full rights. [[Applause]] What Parliament is finally approving today is a very important measure, which sets out the way for real aid to millions of mothers and dads. We are talking about a long-awaited reform which, as I said, also wants to simplify and rationalise the existing measures and which can count on massive investments and measures in support of parenthood and working women. A reform - let's reiterate - strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, is the daughter of the impulse and political action of our former Minister of Labour Nunzia Catalfo [[Applause]] , which, in collaboration with Minister Bonetti, made it possible, starting with the Government Count II. [[Applause]] The family act - as I said - marks a turning point, not only because it will help support families with children and promote the growth of children and young people, but above all because it will facilitate mothers and dads, helping them to better reconcile the times of life and work. There is also the merit - as the rapporteur, Mrs Susy Matrisciano, pointed out - of having anticipated the transposition of the European Parliament and Council Directive of June 2019 on the balance between work and family life. The delegation also provides for some very important innovations, such as the compulsory use of a period of at least ten days of paternity leave during the first months of birth of each child, a paid permit of at least five hours during a school year for talks with children's teachers, flexible arrangements for the management of leave and a minimum period of parental leave of two months not transferable to the other parent. In addition to the novelties introduced by parental leave, which represent a decisive step forward, we must say, however, that there is still a way forward. In fact, we have to think about the recognition of at least 50% of the remuneration for workers on parental leave and for those who care for family members who are not self-sufficient, starting with the legal recognition of the family caregiver, who still has no citizenship in our system today. The Movimento 5 Stars has been asking for this for a long time, since the last legislature, and has made a legislative proposal, now before the Senate's work committee, that we hope will be adopted within the legislature. Returning to the measure under consideration, I think it is necessary to focus on a given: for the first time Italian legislation recognizes equal dignity to parents regardless of their status and work, whether they are self-employed or dependent, including the incompetent. The family act guarantees equal rights and equal protection to those who exercise a free profession or self-employed or unsubordinate activity; all categories, colleagues, who for decades have been deprived of forms of parental support, provided instead for employees. Along with the single allowance, therefore, the family act grants real aid to millions of families, an aid from which will benefit not only workers, as mentioned above, but also the incapients and recipients of citizenship income. So it is another piece of a fundamental great project of reform of the family welfare, for which the Movimento 5 Stars fought and continues to fight and will fight to achieve it until the end. [[Applause]] Another important aspect of the reform is the recognition of the social value of the family, in relation to educational and learning activities for children, through economic benefits, the simplification of the services offered by the public administration and the third sector, taking into account the possible condition of disability within the household. Mr President, allow me only one last step on the issue of disability, because for families with children and children with disabilities the measure intervenes by providing support, including disorders of eating behaviour to those specific to learning or special educational needs, for the expenses incurred, including those of care and rehabilitation and for therapeutic and recreational activities, until the completion of second grade secondary school. There is also much more in this measure, including women's entrepreneurship, the reconciliation of living and working time and support for women's employment. Mr President, I will not go too far in not abusing your kindness and I shall conclude by saying that the Movimento 5 Stars will vote proudly in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]] (at 12.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u92	Mr President, there is no doubt that Italian families today, more than ever, would need support, but believing that the government has the will and the ability to take the measures that would be necessary is simply madness. This government has the objective of benefiting the major international financial groups and fomenting the war, against the interests of Italian companies and families. This government cares about Italian families and entrusts them with the delegation to support and enhance them is like entrusting the sheep to the wolf. That is why we shall be voting no to the draft law which is currently under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u93	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u94	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2450, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u95	Mr President, let us turn to the examination of bill No. 2450, ratifying and implementing the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of South Africa on cooperation in the field of defence, done in Rome on 28 March 2017 and Pretoria on 18 July 2017. The Assembly is therefore called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, ratifying the above-mentioned agreement on cooperation in the field of defence, between Italy and South Africa. It is a bilateral agreement with the aim of renewing the cooperation between the two countries in the field of defence, extending it in the field of procurement and international activities, starting from those of combating piracy in the Horn of Africa. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, EU law and other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u96	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u99	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the measure for the reasons already put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u102	DOOR (PD). Mr President, I would like to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour, and I would just remind you that at the time of the signing of this important defence agreement with South Africa, the Minister of Defence was our colleague Roberta Pinotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u105	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u108	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the measure before us represents an important form of cooperation and an opportunity for our military industry to strengthen, thanks also to the contribution of the South African Armed Forces, operational support for the fight against piracy of the Horn of Africa, where Italy has long been committed to defending the stability of a strategic area for the security of our country and Europe. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u111	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft ratification law by the Brothers of Italy Group, as well as the others that we shall be examining, with the exception of Qatar, on which I shall be asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u114	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I declare the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group's vote in favour of the draft ratification law under consideration and all subsequent amendments which we shall examine, with the exception of draft law No 2471, on which I will briefly speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u117	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group's draft ratification law under consideration and all the others to follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u118	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u119	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2451, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Craxi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u120	, f. f. Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, which has already been examined by the House of Deputies, ratifying the framework agreement signed by Italy and Argentina in February 2019 on cooperation in the peaceful uses of extra-atmospheric space. The bilateral agreement has entrusted the implementation of the joint activities provided for in the text to their national space agencies: the Italian Space Agency (ASI) and the Comisin nacional de actividades espaciales argentina (CONAE), engaging them in particular in the realization of the program called the Italo-Argentine system of satellites for the management of emergencies (SIASGE), that unites the instruments radar with synthetic openings radar, SAR) of the Italian satellite constellation Cosmo-SkyMed in band X and the constellation Argentinea Saocom in band L. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly. You read the report, I hand it over to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u121	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u124	DOOR (PD). Mr President, I am pleased to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this important agreement with the Republic of Argentina, to which I would remind you that there are many cooperation agreements in the cultural, scientific and university fields. It is a country to which we are attached also for the deep ties between our two peoples. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u127	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I confirm our vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u130	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this important act and I am announcing that for all other acts of ratification, too, we will be voting in favour of excluding the one with Qatar, on which I shall be asking to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u133	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to announce the support of the Senators of Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidal to this measure and to the subsequent draft laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u134	Senators Malan, Lucidi and Ferrara confirm their previous voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u135	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2452, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Craxi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u136	, f. f. Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the Defence Cooperation Agreement signed by Italy and Djibouti in January 2020. I remember first that the Gibutian territory is home to numerous military structures, hosting the American, French, Japanese, Chinese and Saudi bases and since 2003 also the Italian military base of support (BMIS), dependent on the operating command of interforce summit (COVI) for the logistic support to the Italian military operations in East Africa and the Indian Ocean. The bilateral agreement in our examination, in linking to a previous signed in 2002, aims to provide an adequate legal framework to initiate structured forms of bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two States, with the aim of contributing to the stabilisation and security processes of a region of vital strategic value, to support activities to combat piracy in the Horn of Africa, as well as to promote positive effects in the productive and commercial sectors of supply and logistics of both countries. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country and therefore it is proposed that the bill be approved by the Assembly. I turn over the text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u137	Thank you, Senator. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators who have already spoken confirm their previous intentions of voting in favour. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u138	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2471, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u139	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, ratifying the exchange of notes dating back to October 2019, amending the 2010 agreement between Italy and Qatar on cooperation in the field of defence. In particular, the agreement in question amends the text of 2010, introducing a clause on criminal jurisdiction that provides, in the context of the sending of national personnel to the other country for the purposes of training and training, the recognition of the jurisdiction of the State of residence against the staff hosted for the crimes committed in its territory and punished according to its own law. The amendment of the agreement does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations signed by our country and therefore it is proposed to approve the bill by the Assembly. Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to hear the comments of my fellow Members who will be speaking on the critical issues they consider to be present in this ratification, so I leave it to you when I can answer any of my colleagues' doubts.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u140	Senator Airola, will you then speak in an explanation of vote? AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will speak at the end of the general debate in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u141	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u142	Mr President, this is an extremely sensitive issue: we are faced with a ratification between Italy and a country which has as its primary source of law not constitutional norms as we understand them, but Sharia, which is the law of Islam. This poses a problem of no small moment, especially to our Armed Forces and auxiliary personnel who would have to go to Qatar tomorrow. This provision in fact provides for the submission of our staff to that law. I would like to remind the House that Sharia is not just about family law and the right of succession, but in particular, as is the case here, about criminal law. Qatar's criminal law includes, for example, the death penalty in the case of espionage. I wonder then what the criterion of application of the norm will be when some of our soldiers took photographs, perhaps even inadvertently, completely random or manslaughter, in which they were portrayed positions or positions that could compromise military security in that country. I also remember that we also have women in military personnel. Let us think only of how the woman is considered: the value of her testimony is half that of the man or even is not considered absolutely reliable on the basis of what the judge decides. We are in a country that formally represents a constitutional monarchy, but in fact it is an absolute monarchy, basically an emirate. We even think of cases where flogging occurs; for example, all those where a relationship between two persons is considered as fornication. Or think about what happened in 2006, when a citizen of the Philippines was sentenced to a hundred lashes. It is therefore a country in which it is difficult to find a temperament of this legislation, because - I repeat - our staff would be subject to that jurisdiction. The application of the sentence would certainly take place when the sentence becomes final, but the time to arrive at a final sentence is unknown to us. So let's imagine what might happen. And then again, there are the death penalty for apostasy and the application of corporal punishments (frudden or vergated), for example in cases of sexual intercourse not covered by Islam (I think for example of cases of homosexuality, considered a serious crime with penalties up to five years). So let's be very careful. I understand the time and the need to supply energy, gas and oil, but when we take responsibility for sending our personnel and our military to a place like that, let us be very careful. For these reasons, even if you understand the moment, you will be in advance of our Group's abstention vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u143	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u144	Mr President, my speech also applies as an explanation of vote. I have also listened to the reasons put forward by Mr Aimi, who have actually been verified. This is an exchange of amending notes that passes from two different Governments, both the Giallorossi and the Giallorossi. The issue has been deepened and in part the concerns of Senator Aimi are excluded regarding all the activities that have to do with the service carried out on the spot, that covers almost the entire day of the staff that is sent, for which the jurisdiction of the country that sends applies. Here we are talking only about a part that concerns privacy, once you leave the office and commit crimes that have nothing to do with your business or, in any case, in an extensive way, that have to do with the security of our country. In addition, it is expected that even for that part of the crimes committed outside the jurisdiction, outside the assignment that is carried out in that country, the sentence will then be taken for granted in the sending country. So, in a similar way to what has already been done with other agreements and in other countries, there are considerable legal coverages that can leave us calm and allow us to vote in favour of this Agreement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u145	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u146	Mr President, we are not at all reassured by the speech made by my colleague, because Article 6a of the agreement, which is ratified by the possible adoption of the draft law, clearly states that for crimes disconnected from the service our military - and it is not an abstract hypothesis, but very concrete, because there is a mission in place with Italian soldiers engaged there - are subject to the courts of Qatar, with the possibility that they may pay the penalty in Italy. I remember - as has already been said - that in Qatar homosexuality is a crime and so is adultery, which in Arabic is called by the generic name zina, which basically indicates "disordered sexual conduct." This means that if two Italian soldiers have sexual intercourse and are not married they are committing this crime, which is certainly not connected to their mission. Therefore, they would be subject to Qatari justice, which provides for a severe penalty: once there was also stoning, now we can be reassured, because we reach only a maximum of one hundred lashes and seven years of imprisonment. We can assume that, if the sentence is taken for granted in Italy, the lashes are abounded, but the seven years of imprisonment, even if it is taken for granted in Italy, does not really seem a reassuring thing to me. We are so ready to recognize the rights of homosexuals, sexual freedom and so on, but then we consider here a very negligible fact that the Italian military, in Qatar not by their own will, obviously, but sent on mission by the Italian Government, can be subjected to such penalties. At present there are also several others, because Qatar's main source of law is sharia, which also includes beheadings, amputations and so on. In the face of these things, I do not think it is enough to abstain. We must vote against, but I would urge the Government to reconsider, to request a postponement and to negotiate again with the Qatari authorities another type of agreement. We do not want to go against a treaty that exists, but we cannot even vote for it. The best thing would be for the government to withdraw it and ask for a postponement, avoiding this controversy, because we usually manage to be united on the Armed Forces. In fact, we must all defend the men and women who go on mission to Italy. [[Applause]] You must not force us to vote against or otherwise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u147	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u148	Mr President, we too have doubts about ratification of the famous Article 6a, which introduces an inconsistency and conflict between two jurisdictions. We are not entirely reassured by the words that were spoken earlier. On the other hand, we know that Qatar is a country with which we have many relations, including diplomatic relations. Basically, the vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will be abstaining. I stress in particular that, as often happens in other international agreements, and perhaps undersecretary Di Stefano will be able to confirm it, Italy itself provides diplomatic coverage for all the people who are hosted in our country for the most varied reasons. Let us think of cultural exchanges, for example. We have locations for scientific centres and laboratories. Even these people, who are civil and not military citizens, and come to our country are given diplomatic cover. Another question is exactly this: why was it not provided for our military and civilian personnel diplomatic cover when they are operating in foreign territory? For these reasons, I declare my Group's abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u149	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u150	Mr President, I would like to clarify a few points. First of all, the agreement drawn up in 2010 by the then Minister of Defence La Russa has been active for many years. Recently, in 2019, the counterparty was insistently asked for an unwillingness to grant a partial transfer of sovereignty in respect of its jurisdiction. That is the problem that is being posed. The contested article 6a says some very clear things: first, in this agreement - of which we do not know exactly the details, because many parts are secreted and those who did so in 2010 should tell us - the main concern is the possibility of violating these military secrets classified in various ways. The article is therefore more focused on this aspect than on those of life outside the service of the military. In any event, the sending party shall have the right to exercise, as a matter of priority, its jurisdiction over the members of its Armed Forces and personnel, where the sending party is subject to the law of the sending party with regard to the offences threatening the security and property of the sending party and the offences resulting from any act or omission committed intentionally or by negligence in the execution or in connection with the service. The sending party, in this way, tries to protect against the fact that - as is explained even later - they are transmitted to third parties (we know that Qatar is also a field of military training and could in some way have interference with terrorist groups, so it is stated that a third passage is impossible) both of information and materials. As regards the lashes and the death sentences evoked, in point c) it is said that the competent authority of the sending party, that is, Italy, will give the execution of the sentence referred to in paragraph 3 respecting the nature and duration of the penalty established in the latter and calculating the time of deprivation of personal freedom already suffered, even with protective custody, for the same title of the territory of the receiving party. However - and this is an important point - if the nature or duration of the sanction is incompatible with the law of the sending party (i.e. with Italian law) and if its law requires it, this party may, by means of a judicial decision, adapt the sanction to the penalty and duration provided for by its own law (Italian law) for the same type of crime. I hope, in this way, that I have made myself clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u151	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u152	OFFICER OF THE GOVERNMENT. Mr President, I would just like to add to what Senator Airola said very well that a further step in guaranteeing our possibly convicted personnel is to serve the sentence in their own country, which gives an extra guarantee compared to the picture that has already been described, which excludes what is functional to the work of the military on site, the local law, instead assigning that of the sending country. The right concerns of this House are therefore excluded in this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u153	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The explanations of vote already made remain confirmed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u154	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2472, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Craxi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u155	The Assembly is called upon to examine the bill already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which ratified the Treaties signed by Italy and Uruguay in March 2019, respectively for judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the transfer of sentenced persons. These are two agreements aimed at strengthening Italy's cooperation relations with non-EU countries, with the aim of improving international judicial cooperation and of making the fight against crime more effective in the criminal justice sector. In particular, Agreements have the objective of allowing the transfer of convicted persons, also contributing to a significant development of relations between the two States and regulating areas so far lacking adequate legal instruments. The Treaties which are the subject of this ratification do not present any profiles of incompatibility with existing national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u156	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u159	DOOR (PD). Mr President, here too I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u160	The explanations of vote already expressed above remain confirmed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u161	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2473, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Nocerino, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u162	Mr President, the draft law that this House is called upon to examine has already been approved in the Chamber of Deputies and brings about the ratification of the Agreement signed in the spring of 2021 between the European Laboratory of Molecular Biology and Italy on the programme of the European Laboratory in Monterotondo. The purpose of the draft law is to update and replace the existing Headquarters Agreement, relating to the research laboratory, dating back to June 1999. The report, very short, concludes by pointing out that the Agreement does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, nor with the European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. I therefore propose that the House approve it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u163	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The explanations of vote already expressed above remain confirmed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u164	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2494, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Craxi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u165	The Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, ratifying the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment treaties between Member States of the European Union, signed in May 2020. The need to conclude the Treaty in question stems from a well-established case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which established that the provisions of an international agreement concluded between two Member States cannot apply in relations between the same States if they prove to be contrary to the Treaties of the Union. In the light of this case-law, the Agreement under consideration is intended to extinguish all remaining bilateral investment treaties within the European Union. This text is an agreement between States, not being the European Union contracting party, since the European Commission has provided its full support and ongoing assistance during the negotiations, but has not been one of the signatories to the text. The technical-normative analysis attached to the bill shows that the Agreement in question does not present the profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law, or other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly. I hand over the text of my speech to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u166	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The voting intentions expressed above remain confirmed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4.30 p.m., at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 10.18 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for the work of the Assembly until 26 April. The topics already scheduled for the current week remain firm. Next week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the Document of Economy and Finance 2022. The discussion in the Assembly of the DEF will take place on Wednesday 20 April, beginning at 2 p.m. The session will conclude, according to the contingency periods, even beyond the usual closing hours. On Thursday 21 April, the decree-law on the containment of energy and gas costs, currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies, will be discussed. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, the ecological transition and health. On Tuesday 26 April, motions will be examined for the Conference on the Future of Europe, as well as for the resolution adopted by the Agriculture Commission on issues relating to the minimum vital flow of rivers and streams.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u168	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 26 April: [[Thursday 7 April h. 15 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The week from 11 to 15 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the examination of the Document of Economy and Finance 2022. [[Wednesday, April 20, h. 14 - Doc. LVII, n. 5 - Document of economy and finance 2022 * - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 17, Containment of energy and gas costs (where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 30 April) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 21, at 15) Thursday 21 " h. 9,30]] * Motions for resolutions on Doc. LVII, No 5 (Economy and Finance Document 2022) should be submitted by the end of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill no.... (Decree-Law No. 17, Containment of energy and gas costs) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday 26 April h. 16.30-20 - Motions concerning the Conference on the Future of Europe - Doc. XXIV, No 64 - Resolution adopted by the 9th Permanent Commission on issues relating to the minimum life flow of rivers and streams]] Time distribution for discussion of Doc. LVII, No 5 (Economy and Finance Document 2022) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 42'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 17, containing energy and gas costs) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 42' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 30' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u169	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 2415, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft law of initiative of the Schullian and others deputies; Ascani; Minardo; Sasso and others; of a bill of initiative of the CNEL and of a bill of initiative of the deputy Lattanzio, and 1352. The rapporteur, Senator Pittoni, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u170	Mr President, today the House is called upon to finally adopt, at second reading, draft law No 2415 of parliamentary initiative, which aims to abolish the prohibition of simultaneous enrolment in several university courses and higher education. This is an anachronistic ban contained in the single text of the laws on higher education, referred to in the Royal Decree of 31 August 1933, n. 1592, which until now has deprived our students of opportunities instead recognized to students from other countries, in particular European. The draft law takes care of the needs to promote a specialized training of a cross-cutting character, that is able to combine the deepening university with an increasing flexibility of skills and knowledge. The measure comes to the House at the end of the examination by the 7th standing Commission. The discussion of the bill, held in conjunction with the Senate Act No. 1352 on the initiative of the National Economic and Labour Council, was initiated on 8 February 2022. The Commission concluded its examination on 22 March with the conferral of the mandate to the rapporteur to report positively to the Assembly on draft law No 2415, previously taken as the basic text in the text approved by the Chamber, with a contextual proposal to absorb the recalled initiative of CNEL. With regard to the contents of the measure, which consists of six articles, it allows the simultaneous enrollment of two university courses (Article 1), or two courses of study in the institutions of high artistic musical and choreutica (AFAM) or two courses of study at the universities and institutions AFAM (Article 2). To this end, the draft law provides for the repeal of the aforementioned prohibition of simultaneous enrolment in several higher education courses contained in the second paragraph of Article 142 of Royal Decree No 1592 of 1933. The draft law also provides for the right to study students who are enrolled at the same time as two courses of study and aims to encourage participation in the courses of study of working students (Article 3). The implementation of the new provisions is entrusted to separate decrees of the Minister of University and Research (Article 4). Finally, the measure provides for the transmission to the Chambers of a report on the state of implementation of the law and an assessment of its impact (Article 5). More in detail, Article 1 provides that each student may enrol at the same time in two different degree courses, master's degree courses or master's degree courses, even at several universities, schools or higher institutions with special arrangements - provided that the lessons concern either degree classes or master's degree classes or separate master's courses - a master's degree or master's degree course and a master's degree course, a PhD or specialization course, with the exception of medical specialization courses; a PhD or Master's degree course and a medical specialization course. Article 2 provides in relation to the faculty of simultaneous enrollment to two courses of academic diploma of first, second level or master's degree also in several institutions of high artistic musical and choreographic training, without prejudice to the prohibition of simultaneous enrollment to the same course of study at two institutions of the AFAM; to an academic diploma course and a master's degree course or doctoral degree of research or specialization; to a doctoral course of research or refinement or master's degree and to a specialization course, referred to in the same article 2 of Law No 508 of 1999; to university study courses and study courses at the institutions of the AFAM within the limit of two inscriptions. According to Article 3, a student who is enrolled in two courses at the same time can benefit from the tools and services in support of the right to study for a single registration, elected by the student himself, in the presence of the conditions required by the legislation. However, the article is without prejudice to the total or partial exemption from the payment of the annual all-inclusive contribution for both registrations, even in this case in the presence of the required requirements. In addition, the article instructs the university and institutions of the AFAM to draw up an annual programme to promote and promote the participation of students working in the courses and training activities following the achievement of the title. Article 4 regulates the modalities and criteria to allow double registration at the same time, entrusting it with a decree of the Minister of University and Research. In addition, with separate ministerial decrees, it is possible, inter alia, to facilitate students in their simultaneous enrolment in two university education courses, taking into account university courses requiring compulsory attendance, in order to facilitate the achievement of dual or joint final qualifications on the basis of conventions between two universities, schools or higher institutions of special order or between two institutions of the AFAM or by universities and institutions of the AFAM. These decrees shall be adopted within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the law, after consulting the National University Council, the National Council of University Students, and - depending on whether it is a university or AFAM institution - the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities or the National Council for High Art and Musical Education. Article 5 lays down rules on the monitoring and assessment of the impact of the law, providing that within four months of the end of the third academic year following that in progress on the date of entry into force of the law, the Minister of University and Research present to the Chambers a report on the state of implementation of the law and an assessment of the impact of the law. Finally, Article 6 contains the financial invariance clause. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u171	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u172	Mr President, I would just like to thank Parliament - and the Senate in particular - for being so quick and determined to pursue such an important initiative for the university. We talk a lot about students and young people: the provision is really for them and I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u173	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of draft law No 2415 in the text approved by the House of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u176	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with this measure we finally put back into practice legislation that I would say is very old in time, almost ninety years ago, which provided for the prohibition for a student to register at the same time for two university courses. This ban is finally swept away and young people are allowed to enrol in two university education courses, including masters and doctorates, but also in two study courses at AFAM institutions. This is a decisive and important step in the direction already taken at European level. Above all, this is a necessary step in the face of an extremely anachronistic regulation, if you think about how the world has completely changed, the perspectives and the tools that we have at our disposal today. The prohibition of double registration was conceived in a context totally different from ours, now really limiting to the abilities and ambitions of our girls and our boys. Today we have more tools, more user-friendliness of content, more ease in achieving the objectives; a range of possibilities, therefore, that we cannot fail to grasp. This is a measure that is designed precisely for young people, who want to help them, but of which - I trust - we will all benefit, given the undoubted positive repercussions. And starting from this very bill, we should be called to work on a thorough reflection on young people and their education. The data we receive in this regard are certainly not encouraging: in Italy the percentage of graduates is about 63 percent compared with 79 percent of the rest of Europe. The same gap is also found on the data concerning graduates: only 20% of Italian graduates, compared with 32.8% of the rest of Europe. We are well aware that this gap will not be bridged either easily or immediately, but we hope that this first step will at least partially bring us into line with the regulations of other European countries. This measure will certainly promote the contamination between knowledge and will help the youngest to have those skills that the world of work today requires and that increasingly will require. This is a step towards modernising a system, university one, but not only. There is certainly still a long way to go to meet the new training needs and the best European standards. But I believe that today we really reach an important goal, which finally allows our country to make a leap towards the future of university education, in line with the rest of the world. I should like to thank the 7th Commission, of which I am honoured to be a member. President Nencini, the rapporteur, Mr Pittoni, and above all the Minister Mass for the attention he has shown on these issues from the outset. In fact, I believe that the importance of this bill should be taken into account in the framework of measures on the subject of training approved in a very short time: I am thinking of the Act on Enabling Degrees, the ITS Reform Act, but also the Act on the Recruitment of Researchers. This provision has indeed been awaited for a very long time. This is probably a measure that does not immediately have a large audience of recipients, but our task is to ensure that this audience expands more and more. We can only do this by making what is currently only a possibility simpler and more accessible. The goal we must pursue is to expand the training offer, provide more possibilities, perhaps in different areas, and give young people the opportunity to diversify their university career and offer all the tools to face the challenges that the world of work and modernity impose on us. So, if I think of something immediate and concrete, I think we should first of all insist on the student orientation phase, so that they can be aware of the range of possibilities I was talking about at the beginning of my speech and can build their career paths more freely. Certainly all this cannot be accompanied by an effective and economic contribution only in the immediate, but we must make a real investment, supporting this course of study. We cannot give this possibility only to those who already have it or to those who can afford it, but above all we must give it to those who are most in difficulty, for economic, social and cultural situations. That is why we are happy and aware that with this provision today we are marking an important step. For everything I have just said I can only vote in favour of Italy Viva-PSI and thank again the Government and all those who have worked in this direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u179	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already done in the Chamber of Deputies and in the 7th Commission to the Senate, I preannounce the positive and convinced vote of Brothers of Italy on the measure under discussion, amending Article 142 of the single text of the Royal Decree of 31 August 1933, No 1592. Time passes, goes on and the needs of university students change. The measure allows university students to enroll in two faculties at the same time. We fought in the House of Deputies in our capacity as a modern and responsible opposition, which is never against the nation, but is able to offer its contribution to improve all measures. We welcome the recognition of certain principles which we strongly supported. I am referring in particular to two of them. First of all it is very important to have included during the examination of the provision in the Chamber the high artistic, musical and choreutica (AFAM). As we have always argued, academies and conservatives must have a fundamental recognition as well as universities, as well as institutions of high musical and Korean artistic formation. This strengthening, aimed at increasing the comparability of AFAMs with universities, is in our political project that concerns education. Then we find the article that deals with the right to study, establishing that those who subscribe to two courses at the same time can benefit from the same tools and services provided for a single registration. We believe that there is a common sense in avoiding too many burdens in an area where funds, as we know, are all too often inadequate. We also agree very strongly when Article 4 states that it is not possible to enrol in courses which require special application and concentration, as in the case of the medical faculty, for example. It is clear that we have different courses for which special attention is needed to monitor registrations. Our concern was that the possibility of enrolling in two courses was all without any difference; this would obviously not reward the meritocracy and the seriousness of a study with reference to special courses in which certainly one cannot lose concentration. In the light of Article 4, therefore, we have basically approved and accepted this amendment, according to which the Ministry of the University, by decree, heard the National University Council (CUN) and the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities (CRUI), important bodies regarding the university, will have to monitor courses that require compulsory attendance. This is very important and the agenda that we presented to the House was also closely linked to this speech. The vote of the Brothers of Italy Group will be in favour, because we believe that this measure offers opportunities to university students and represents another piece to build our university, to ensure that young people are no longer forced to emigrate abroad and put their strength and brains at the disposal of our nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u182	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, Mr Undersecretary, we are pleased today because by adopting this measure - I hope unanimously - we are finally going to remove a constraint that made absolutely no sense at all. This measure in fact stems from the need to adapt Italian legislation to that of most of the systems of other European countries, which grant students the ability to enroll at the same time in more than one course of study, promoting multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary knowledge. These characteristics are indispensable today to respond adequately to the complexity and speed at which the world is transformed. For years we have been reading and analyzing the results of research and discussing the difficulties of our system to respond to the challenge of the past, which is also to respond to the speed of this time. This is why this bill is important, which finally repeals the prohibition of contemporary enrolment in several higher education courses, provided by a royal decree of 1933, that is, a century ago, another age, in which other training canons existed, based on a rigidity considered fundamental characteristic for a good education, which had to be selective above all before inclusive. Today that ban is clearly incomprehensible and shows all its limitations. Minister, in the last legislature we had tried, in 2014 we had deposited a bill at the first signature of Marco Meloni, but that it had been immediately signed by Maria Chiara Carrozza and Flavia Piccoli Nardelli. We in the 7th Commission of that time looked at it with great interest, but it was another season, there was no chance and it was very nice work that the other branch of Parliament in this legislature did with the rapporteur Alessandro Fusacchia and with the participation of all the Groups, who really showed a willingness to tell what many young people were asking for outside, so gathering the external experience and bringing it to the parliamentary classrooms. It is clear, therefore, that we are particularly pleased with today's outcome, because we think that this is a choice for young people, because it offers them the opportunity to freely choose to develop the ability to develop complex and multiple skills that are indispensable in this era of great transformations. We have tried since the last legislature and today we seem to have taken a big step forward, in a season that has changed the face of the university, because the last time we saw it here, Minister, we were precisely voting on the provision on professionalizing enabling degrees, which is another very important segment, which leads our country and our boys to be more competitive with their European cousins. Now, this rule that is thus repealed could also give the signal and the start to a process of overall change in the way in which we generally mean learning. I also tell the Undersecretary of Education Sasso, because this thought, which I want to share with you today, also concerns the school. Probably a well-founded reason for the low results found with the OECD-PISA and Invalsi tests, in some territories and in some fields of study, is also the result of a teaching still too little focused on the mix of knowledge; a didactic that in some realities has not yet managed to innovate and renew itself. Perhaps we really need to focus so much on teacher training in this direction, to build a different school model. The former minister Berlinguer, who luckily continues to talk about school to the beauty of ninety years, always reminds us that we should forget the knowledge marked by the sound of the bell. We still make our kids live a school where knowledge is divided by the sound of the bell, when instead our kids are used to learning through links, they are used to understanding that disciplines meet with each other, that knowledge is not fossilized and has no walls, but can spread. This is an effort that policy should make, in order to really bring school and overall training to work in this direction. Reality is really characterized by complexity and speed in transformation and the line of separation between disciplines hinders the process of discovery and restrains curiosity. It is essential to make sure that the children are led to overcome the fences and understand the complexity, the interdependence between the phenomena, the cause-effect relationships, which have lost much of that historical linearity, because they meet; and it is nice that our boys can live a knowledge done in this way. It is necessary to give a new course to this system, also on the push that the PNRR gives us, starting from its central assumption: to rebuild the country starting from the youngest. I am happy, because our party has worked hard to think that there could be a premium clause compared to everything that concerns women and young people. The abolition of the possibility of simultaneous enrolment in two university courses increases learning opportunities for young people who want to study and is an incentive for those who have been used to doing more things at the same time for a long time. It is as if we, by repealing this rule, are in harmony with the skills, attitudes, characteristics and ambitions of the new generations. It is as if we were saying: we want to help you develop your potential, we are at your side, there are no limits. It is the first school that wants to overcome these limits and the university today is giving a great signal in this direction. We reward this curiosity, this ability to interconnect, this ability to exchange different sectors, which is the basis of a changing world. I am also very happy and we are very pleased that the law provides for mechanisms that allow economically disadvantaged students access to double enrolment. We know that this is a country where it is difficult to make effective the full right to education and therefore avoid discrimination, even if it has already been done so much, even if all the work done on the no tax area compared to the university has given important signals. Therefore, Minister, we are pleased to try to move forward in this direction, because the right to study must be guaranteed and for us it is sacrosanct, also because the right to study, if exercised, allows us to live what our Constitution tells us. In Italy social mobility almost does not exist and unfortunately often the success of school and academic is still linked to the family origin. We really need to reverse this trend and it is a battle that should see us - but I think I can say it - all of us all all all together. This measure is good for the country and is good for our children, so it is with joy that we will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u185	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the text of the draft law that we are about to adopt has a fundamental objective, which we all agree with, which is to finally eliminate rules that are dutiful and above all to adapt Italian legislation to the laws of most other European countries, in which students are granted the right to enrol at the same time in several courses of study, thus favouring what is an absolutely fundamental point for us, namely the interdisciplinary nature of knowledge and knowledge, precisely in order to create professional figures who can respond more adequately to the complexity of the labour market and have the opportunity to understand the complexity of the world. The measure in question therefore allows for the enrolment of several master's degree courses, at universities, schools or higher institutions of special order. It is therefore expected that the student can enroll in two courses at the same time and can also benefit from the tools and services in support of the right to study for a single registration. Mrs. Minister, today we are talking about this issue, since we are introducing this important novelty, but I believe that, in a complicated and difficult phase for our country, we need to do more to ensure that the right to study is actually exercisable. We have the problem of the number of graduates, which is unfortunately very low compared to the rest of the European countries. I therefore believe that this measure helps to improve this approach, but we must absolutely work on this issue, which is a very important social issue, which has to do directly with the principle of equality, enshrined in Article 3 of our Constitution. This measure is of particular interest, because it can promote cultural growth and generate a positive social and economic impact on the country. It is therefore necessary to highlight all its potentialities and resources, but also some critical issues, and it must be emphasized that it is essential to overcome the rigidity connected to the degree courses, of which innovation and interdisciplinary openness have long been called for, which must go hand in hand with an overall rethinking of the current compartmentalization of knowledge, which is certainly in place, but which absolutely cannot be taken for granted. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, on the one hand they must open up to closed fences, on the other hand they must not disperse the traditions of specific research. It should therefore be stressed that a key part of the measure provides for the creation of a mentoring system, which helps to compose the overall learning path, so that the achievement of integrated learning and training is ensured. However, we must understand this: it is not a question of being for or against flexibility, but it is a question of building such a regulatory design that at the same time flexibility, inter-discipline and training effectiveness must be ensured. The great value offered by the dialogue between disciplines, therefore by interdisciplinarity, is guaranteed by an accompanying system, which allows the student or student to gain awareness of the multiplicity of knowledge he meets in his university experience, so as to have the key skills to orient himself in everything he has learned in the different degree courses. Our hope is that control instruments can be introduced to prevent the sale of university qualifications. I refer, in particular, to the online degrees (in which it is not all the same, but on which it is necessary to exercise control), perhaps conquered in order to obtain a social recognition or career advancement or even in the rankings of public competitions, generating a phenomenon that damages in a very serious way the graduates who, with commitment and effort, have completed their course of study. This has happened, for example, also for all precarious teachers (the rapporteur knows perfectly well), since some masters have been obtained to have the 24 CFU. On this point, all the control instruments must be put in place. Article 34 of the Constitution, by virtue of which the capable and deserving, even if they lack the means, have the right to reach the highest degrees of the studies, is our point of reference. I am referring in particular to the fact that all the instruments needed to ensure compliance with Article 34 of the Constitution must be put in place more and more. In addition to this measure, which is very important, a number of elements of the university system may need to be rethought in general. Madam Minister, I think, for example, that for some faculties the closed number should be rethought, introducing a different approach and above all putting in place tools to fully implement the right to study and to respect Article 34 of the Constitution. This means removing inequalities, enabling the most deserving and able to access the highest levels of education. This would be the real big push for our country, because to intervene and make sure that there are more graduates and the possibility of access to all higher education and university is a card that this country must play to the full. The other aspect concerns the issue of gender and the fact that we need to push more to remove those cultural and approach impediments by which women are less driven towards scientific faculties. I think you, Mrs. Minister, are perfectly clear about this, which would really help us make a big step forward to our university system. We believe that the measure is important and useful, since even in our country it is necessary to promote interdisciplinary and - I repeat - flexibility. All control instruments must be put in place to prevent the sale of graduations (element, this, fundamental). At the same time, I believe that we must give everyone more and more access, including those who have the greatest social and economic difficulties, to the highest degrees of university and higher education. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u188	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, I too believe that good policy is the policy of putting everyone in a position to take advantage of the opportunities offered, regardless of the conditions of departure. This applies, of course, in all areas, but particularly when it comes to primary, secondary and tertiary education. This is borne out by the extraordinary consonance with which all the members of the Committee on Education of this branch of Parliament, as evidently happened in the House, agree to try to widen, whenever we have the possibility, the links of the right to study, in order to allow those who, by birth, by census, by family conditions, risk being excluded from it. This is even more true in a country like Italy which, as far as university education is concerned, unfortunately boasts the not glorious record of being a taillight in the European rankings of graduates compared to the population. There is another duty that good politics must fulfil, that is to put the person at the centre and to allow everyone to deploy the maximum of their abilities and potential, to have recognized their merits and to be able to exhibit their talents. This is precisely the objective of this bill which, of course, is for a few people today, but it guarantees the right of all, because it also concerns itself with filling the economic gaps and putting those who have an economic disadvantage in the conditions of access to the opportunity to achieve a double degree of study. This puts us on the same footing with other European countries and allows our formation to be more and more in line with the spirit of the times. Like it or not, the spirit of the times wants an increasingly interdisciplinary and increasingly articulated formation. The possibility of setting up one's own study plan on a European scale, of combining the degree obtained at home, degrees and courses of study obtained abroad is clearly an opportunity. Above all, it is a duty for the State to put its students in the conditions of access to this opportunity, because we are now living in a labour market which, at Community level above all, but not only, is globalised and therefore very competitive. This is the model that inspires this bill. It is a model that has been called to us for some time now and that we have long failed to consider. In 1999, the Bologna Declaration saw all university ministers agree to identify a European area of higher education, which was to be built over the first decade of the 2000s. Not ten years later, but sixteen years later, in 2015, in Erevan, the successors of those ministers insisted very much on the need to allow all European students to achieve a double degree, if that is their intention. In March last year, the European Commission strongly urged us to remove those obstacles that prevent student mobility. This law gives satisfaction to these requests and puts our students on the same footing as the French, German and European students, giving them the same possibilities. It is a law for a few, but it is a law that everyone has the right to access. So the hope and hope is that this right will be exploited by more and more students. There is the protection of the weakest, there is the recognition of individual merit, there is the centrality of the person. There are those principles that, not from today, but have always inspired the political choices of Forza Italia. That is why my group will vote in favour of this bill today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u191	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the presence and constant involvement of Parliament. Thank you, too, for your presence, to our secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy today because, in recent times, every time a debate on students has been held, it has been to impose various restrictions on them, caused by the fight against the pandemic. Today, however, with pleasure we can say that we turn to the students with an opening order, which abolishes the prohibition of contemporary enrolment at two different universities. It is therefore beyond an obsolete provision of nearly 90 years ago, a royal decree of 1933, which, as the previous speaker has already told me, provided for this prohibition. In this regard, the League was among the first to submit a legislative proposal to amend this rule. After this last passage to the Senate, we hope that from next academic year every student can enroll at the same time in two different courses of degree, master's degree and master's degree also at several universities, schools and higher institutes under special order, institutions of high artistic formation, musical and choreutica. This opportunity has long been demanded by students, professors, academics and the world of work, who trusted in a system that focused on the interdisciplinaryity of knowledge, to create professional figures that would respond more adequately to the increasing complexity of the world of work. With the overcoming of the logic of specialization in a single sector, not only does our country align itself with most European countries, but it offers students the concrete opportunity to make their training more flexible. In addition, with regard to post-graduate and post-graduate three-year guidance, the measure will allow students not to lose a year for having made a choice of wrong or hasty studies. Now the Minister of University and Research will have to regulate the modalities for the simultaneous registration, the conditions for obtaining double or joint final qualifications between Italian and foreign universities, as well as the modalities for the simultaneous registration of two different university courses with access to a number programmed at national level. We hope that the deadlines set for starting next year will be respected in the best way possible and that there will be no short-circuits in the practical application of the rules and their coordination. Another important innovation introduced by this bill will be the implementation of the student's electronic file. It is a fundamental tool that will allow access, through the public digital identity system (SPID) or the electronic identity document, to all documents of the career of each student, in order to ensure transparency and ensure an effective simplification of every bureaucratic practice, especially when it is necessary to dialogue with several Italian and foreign faculties and universities. We therefore consider it very important to have provided for mechanisms in this text which also allow economically disadvantaged students to have access to double enrolment, in order to guarantee students who are capable and worthy, even if they lack the means, the right to reach the highest degrees of their studies, providing for instruments capable of making this right effective. [[Applause.]] (17.28) (Following SAPONARA). Moreover, it has obviously been corrected to provide that the student who is enrolled at the same time as two courses applies the total or partial exemption of the payment of the annual all-inclusive contribution for both enrolments. This measure is a way of promoting and promoting interdisciplinary learning with a view to accessing less sectoral and distinct knowledge, facilitating the interconnection between the scientific and humanistic sectors; a fact that will necessarily involve a revision of the educational systems of universities, precisely in order to provide for less rigidity and the development of greater interdisciplinaryity. Madam Minister, these days I have received several e-mails from students who asked when the measure under consideration would be passed, so today we give these young people the opportunity to form themselves. The draft law under consideration is an encouragement precisely to give our young people the opportunity to learn those disciplines that will allow them to enter the world of work in an appropriate and also competitive way. In conclusion, with the approval of this measure we also take a further step towards the implementation of our tertiary education system and of what has been planned for a long time in many European countries. Trusting that the entire Shareholders' Meeting shares this text, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u194	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just last Monday, at a meeting with the students of the international classical high school "Giovanni Meli" in Palermo, at a very stimulating and useful time to understand the expectations that young people put in this Parliament, I was asked about the future prospects of our education system and the system of university and tertiary education in general. It is incontrovertible that our children are now more than ever launched towards the future and that they feel our education system a little bit out of line with their expectations and skills, not only those that the digital natives have much more rooted than our generation. Alessandro, a dear friend who deals with innovation, in his courses always specifies that many children today will do a job that does not exist today, while sometimes it happens to prepare young people for jobs that no longer exist or that no longer serve. For this reason, we are called to anticipate the needs of the world of tomorrow, to precede a world that - it seems clear by now - will require more and more: multidisciplinary skills, flexibility of paths, openness to creative and divergent thinking and a resilient thought, which is what Europe today demands of new generation. Could we therefore be bound by a royal decree which, since 1933, has prevented students from attending two separate university courses at the same time for almost a century? Can we respond to those boys who a royal decree prevents them from undertaking two courses of study at the same time, in which they could potentially find their size? Knowledge today is increasingly interdependent and it is through the interconnection of knowledge that we can reach the solution of increasingly complex problems. Perhaps never as in this historical moment the university can help to form thinking subjects capable of orienting themselves in the complexity of contemporary knowledge, capable of making decisions on the basis of a creative, critical and resilient thought. [[Applause]] The bill that we are going to vote on today, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, does justice to that need for multidisciplinary expertise, so today a biologist will have to have environmental, legal, medical, energy-related skills. A doctor may not only be a doctor who treats a patient, but he will be called to know the psychological implications of the therapy, he must be able to communicate adequately with the patient, he must also know from a legal and economic point of view his activity. A musician can also take care of therapy, using an expressive channel such as music to prevent discomfort, ensure well-being, relieve if not cure the disease. It is precisely these days - allow me to digression - a decree signed by the Minister Mass that establishes the second-level academic diploma in theory and technique and music therapy: a recognition finally arrived for the figure of the musicotherapist, after years of good practice; it will be a degree course that will be accessed with strict medical skills and specialized musical skills. Inconceivable that in order to meet these requirements a student must attend two courses in sequence and not at the same time. It is precisely in the context of high artistic, musical and coreautic training that in these years, with precision since 1999 (the year in which the AFAM system was raised at university level), the prohibition of dual attendance at graduation courses has hit students who would have liked to undertake the study of music, dance, arts at the same time as medical, engineering or humanistic studies, often forcing them to choose between a strong passion put in the arts and another strong interest in studies. Many of my talented students have abandoned music for a university course, because it is considered by families to be more suitable for seeking employment. Today this bill also protects those who can exercise the right to study without having to put their dreams in a drawer. [[Applause]] In our time the right to study should be the basis on which a state is built that thinks of the future of those who will be the next Italian workers. The latest Istat report of 2020 certifies that only 20% of the Italian population is graduated, against an average of about 33% of the European Union, with a gap of 13 percentage points. Expanding the training offer and not limiting its choice can be the right path. There are landslides in which it is preferable not to raise a building, but to see before it the foundations of the possible buildings. This measure offers substantially an extra opportunity for ambitious and deserving students who cultivate more passions, who see different paths ahead of them and do not want to be forced to plan their lives. the measure in question aligns the Italian university system with that of the rest of Europe, where students are allowed to enroll in several courses of study at the same time. Our young people will therefore be able to obtain more university qualifications, increase their knowledge and be more competitive internationally. The draft law under consideration, in addition to abolishing the prohibition of double registration, is concerned with adapting the student's electronic file and renewing the student's digital curriculum in order to improve the connection with the working world. Finally, the possibility of exempting the payment of tuition fees is also extended for the second registration, where it is entitled for the first registration. The Movimento 5 Stars fought for the approval of this measure, well aware of the value of innovation and the valorization of merit. The university education system must adapt and keep up with the times, firmly convinced that a good school and university system must be able to anticipate the times. Today, Parliament is about to vote on this measure, which in some way represents a revolution, which can only be welcomed by all those young and older students who want to expand their knowledge. Hungry for knowledge and knowledge: that's how we imagine our boys and that's how we want to give them the chance to be; that's how we want to be us, decision-makers of their future, up to their expectations. For this reason, thanking the Minister and all those who have worked on this provision in the House and the Senate, I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u196	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u197	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, the measure we are examining today is a perfectly inconsistent bill, as usual, with respect to the training needs of our students and the needs of the country. Our students are in fact already in difficulty to achieve a single university degree, due to the vertical fall in the quality of our school institutions, due to more than twenty years of legislation that goes totally against the quality and weight of the training. What good is it and who needs to cancel the attendance of two university or post-university courses simultaneously, if our universities are forced to activate preparatory zeroing courses to the attendance of university courses due to the substantial lack of essential educational prerequisites on the part of our students? Our students don't even have the basics to follow university courses and we even put them to two courses simultaneously: this makes the value of our degrees further lower. Mistakes on errors are added to legislation which, unfortunately, after two years of sobbing and distance learning lockdowns, has caused a great gap in student learning, which has led to the withdrawal of the second written test of the state exams. If for our students, for years now, the Invalsi reports show ever more worrying levels of learning, it is inconsistent to remedy this by making them attend two university courses together. Unfortunately, the bill before our examination goes precisely in the direction of favoring the usual business market logics with which the legislator has favored the stakeholders who operate in public and private formation. Unfortunately, there will not be the possibility for everyone to attend two courses simultaneously, but only those who can afford it will do so, also because we do not see how we can safeguard the financial invariance of the bill where we allow all those who have the income ISEE below a certain limit to attend two routes free of charge simultaneously. So, you always take advantage of those who can afford it over those who can't afford it. Moreover, unfortunately, we underestimate our degrees and masters and promote the proliferation of many stakeholders who even sell the titles, advertising them on the web, on television and in all contexts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u198	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2415 as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Thus, the draft law No 1352 is absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u201	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, today in L'Aquila the day of remembrance is celebrated. At 3.32 a.m. on the night of April 6, thirteen years ago a strong earthquake of magnitude 6.3 destroyed an entire community, the Eagle community: 309 were the victims counted... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u202	Colleagues, if only for the subject I invite you to be silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u203	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Thank you, President. I said 309 lives were broken in a few moments. Like so many citizens of Aquila and Abruzzo I remember exactly those moments. I remember perfectly the fear and dismay of those moments when we had not yet understood exactly what had happened, where and with what intensity. Then I remember the next moments when the news began to arrive and the death report continued and was destined to go up. In the face of this impotence, I wonder what we have left. Italy frequently sees these seismic events and every time they happen what we have left? What do we learn and what can we do as small men, unable to predict them, if we do not convince ourselves that we must only suffer them? Today, Mr President, I think prevention is the only answer to this kind of question. Thanks to important investments and incentives put in place by the state, today I can say that we have started to secure the important and vast public and private heritage. However, it takes a long time to secure every single home in every single citizen so that everyone can feel safe in their home. However, as I said, today we are aware that we have finally taken the right path, the same path that will allow those who will be present after us, a safer Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u206	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind the House that, after almost thirteen years, Stefano Cucchi has finally had justice. [[Applause]] It took all these years, too many, colleagues, to declare that Stephen had not fallen from the stairs, he had not hurt himself, he was not ill fed, but had been beaten brutally and cowardly. Stefano was beaten to death, this is the obscene truth. [[Applause]] This truth came above all thanks to the determination of the family, sister Ilaria, who did not give up in front of the slips, intimidation and that rubber wall that was erected immediately so as not to bring out the truth. A sick mode, already experienced during the days of the G8 of Genoa, brought in front of some rotten apples that have in them the germ of a fascist culture that turns into illegal and unjustifiable punitive actions, harming also the many men in uniform who with self-denial carry on their work. [[Applause]] Mr President, the Cucchi case was an Italian shame, an even greater shame were the statements of certain politicians who have been offended by poor Stefano. On October 22, 2009, Stefano Cucchi died in a bed in the inmates' department of Sandro Pertini Hospital. Since that day, a series of ignoble statements have been made by some politicians. I remember a few of them. Someone said that if one leads a loose life then he pays the consequences. Others said it sucked, it was hard to think he was beaten. They even said he was beaten by drug dealers and then died because he was weak. Colleagues, but do we realize that for the Cucchi family these words were as painful as the kicks and fists that Stefano suffered? [[Applause]] These characters should have the decency and humility to apologize, apologies that, meanwhile, as a small representative of the State, I want to express for them, in order to try to demonstrate a closeness that can even minimally alleviate the so much pain inflicted on a good family, that has believed in justice and that has constantly sought the truth. I feel like thanking Ilaria Cucchi for her commitment, dedication and perseverance, for the strength she has shown us in the search for truth. moved by deep love for Brother Stephen, a love that has made our country better. [[Applause]] President, I conclude by saying that cases like that of Stephen must not happen anymore, because it is not as a civilized country to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u209	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I rise to ask the answer to a series of questions on the issue of Motorways for Italy, a business promoted by environments of the Ministry of Infrastructure, then variously called, which involves a theft to the detriment of motorists and all those who use the highways and therefore practically of all, because the goods we buy in the shops pass in great part through the highways, and that will instead benefit the managers of the highways that have had such a disastrous management to see the collapse of the Morandi bridge. The specific responsibilities of that disaster are being investigated by the judiciary, but the lack of maintenance is evident and proven, then the bridge may have collapsed unfortunately, but it is in fact that on the tolls of the highways will be loaded at least eight billion more than the largest of the figures that could be imagined to give to Mr Benetton and to Atlantia. As if that were not enough, while doing that, at the Ministry, without the authorization of anyone, of a paragraph, of an agenda, it was decided to refund to Autostrade for Italy 100 percent of the difference of receipts that there was in 2019 compared to the receipts of 2020. And this for Covid, when hundreds of thousands of Italian companies have been reimbursed 2, 5, 10, 0 percent and even late, being in many cases forced to close. Is it possible that for the first three months only more than 500 million are to be taken away from the Italians, when hundreds of thousands of companies have closed down or are in serious difficulty because they have received virtually no restaurants? We're talking about companies that haven't had less receipts, like highways, but they've had zero receipts, in fact they've only had the expenses, because when a restaurant forbids to open, it's not that it can arrange to cash in anyway. On the other hand, the highways continued to collect and, on the whole, collected more than was laid down in the financial plans. This has been deliberately ignored by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (now sustainable mobility), without answering questions. This is indeed an insult to Parliament and to the Italians. However, not answering questions is wrong, and I expect that there will be action by the Senate, because answering questions is not a faculty or a courtesy, but a simple act of compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Not only is there no answer to the uncomfortable questions, but there is an operation of tens of billions without even informing the Senate; this really is an insult to Parliament, the Senate and the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u210	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-423.ana.u211	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 7 April, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.50 p.m.
