ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u3	The next item is: Information from the Minister for the Green Transition on recent further increases in energy costs and government measures to counter their effects. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this opportunity. My information will be structured on four points. The first is the possible short-term evolution of the supply-demand scenario from natural gas; the second is an analysis, albeit fairly rapid, of measures to increase the security of the system in the short and medium term; the third concerns possible structural measures to eliminate dependence on imports from Russia and the fourth concerns certain measures to limit price increases. As for the current state and the possible evolution of the scenario, analyzing the evolution of consumption, imports and national production of natural gas, which is the founder of the energy supply chain, in Italy in the last two decades, we can highlight some firm points: the values, which ranged between 70 and 86 billion cubic meters in 2021, remained substantially stable, going to 76 billion cubic meters. In the next two decades, national production of natural gas has declined substantially, partly due to the natural decline in deposits and the fact that no new investments in research and production have been made. The numbers speak of just over 15 billion cubic meters produced in 2001 against the 3 billion cubic meters produced today. This means that we have moved from national production, which as a percentage was more than 20% of demand, to the current situation where we depend 95% on natural gas. In our energy mix we basically have gas and renewables, so this establishes a very strong dependence on imports. Imports from Russia, for the present case, have increased in absolute value and as a percentage from 20 billion cubic metres - 25 percent of consumption - in 2011 to 29 billion cubic metres in 2021, which is equivalent to about 38 percent of consumption. This is our current dependence on Russia. From the point of view of import infrastructure, we have a diversified supply and transport system that is fairly resilient, especially compared to other Member States, and is fed mainly with gas produced abroad, as I said earlier, which is imported or transported by sea as liquefied natural gas and unloaded at regasification terminals. As for our infrastructure, there are five pipelines and three regasifiers. The first one I would like to mention is the Trans Austria Gasleitung gas pipeline (TAG), which runs through Austria and imports gas from Russia through Ukraine, connecting to the national gas pipeline network in Tarvisio. Here pass the 29 billion cubic meters of the last period coming from Russia, about 40 percent of our import. There is therefore the Transitgas pipeline, which connects the German and French transport network to the Italian network through Switzerland. The entry point is the Gries Pass. The pipeline allows the import - and even, in a few days before the crisis, a little 'export of gas from Italy - of gas from the North European market, a mix of gas coming from Norway, Holland, Denmark and the United Kingdom and also of liquid natural gas imported through North European regasification terminals. In fact, this connects the wholesale gas price of the Italian market - the so-called virtual exchange point (PSV) - to the North European hub market title transfer facility (TTF), which dictates the final numbers. The Transitgas pipeline currently carries 3% of our gas (2 billion cubic metres). It could bring 12 billion, but the point is that we do not receive many supplies from Northern Europe, which, especially at a time like this, tends to internalize on its own market. Then there is the Transmed pipeline (TransMediterranean pipeline company, TMPC), which crosses the Sicilian channel from Capo Bon, Tunisia, to Mazara del Vallo, importing Algerian gas: this imports 29 percent of our needs, so it is big: it is over 21 billion cubic meters and could reach 27 billion, so it still has a bit of exploitable capacity. The Greenstream pipeline connects the national pipeline network to Gela and imports the gas produced in Libya into our country: this is maximized, because it goes directly to the production points, and transports 3.2 billion cubic meters (about 4%). Finally, the fifth is the Trans Adriatic pipeline (TAP), which connects Italy, Greece and Albania, as you know, and connects to the national pipeline network in Melendugno, Puglia, transporting - through Turkey - the gas from Azerbaijan. This is the latest import infrastructure, as you will all remember, which came into operation in November 2020; it currently carries 10% of our gas, which is approximately 7 billion cubic metres, and could reach approximately 8.5 metres with the current layout. There are then three regasifiers: one in Panigaglia (the only one on land) and two offshore installed offshore in the area of Rovigo and in the area of Livorno. These produce 13 percent of our gas for about 9.8 billion cubic meters and could reach about 16 billion: notoriously the regasifiers do not work 100 percent for three hundred sixty days, so there is possibly room to increase their production. This system - consisting of three regasification stations and five gas pipelines - is also a qualifying part of the series of natural gas storage deposits. I remember that, in order to ensure the balance of consumption between winter and summer - it is not only a problem of average value: there are peak periods and others, like summer, in which the need is lower - we have 18 billion cubic meters, a part of which is destined for strategic storage, produced only in case of prolonged emergency, and about 12 billion cubic meters are destined for commercial storage of gas owned by traders. The remaining part is, in fact, a strategic reserve owned by the storage companies and can be provided under prolonged emergency conditions, to the residual protection of the civil sector. With this arrangement - I think the numbers are quite clear - we see the scenarios of possible interruption of gas supplies from Russia, assuming that at some point the tap is closed. It is important to stress that at this time the supply flow through Russia is the highest recorded in recent times. The supply is absolutely constant throughout Europe; indeed, it has raised - as I think you have heard - a reflection on the fact that, however, Europe is continuing to buy gas and supply at this time is continuing, and this leads to payments of an order of magnitude of about one billion euros per day of purchase by Europe. At a time, unfortunately, of war like this, you understand that this has implications that go beyond the energy sector: we (Europe) are buying gas and paying about a billion a day, regardless of the price. Therefore, it is an important reflection at this time, regardless of what we are discussing today. Suppose there may be an interruption: in the short term, that is, in a month, as an order of magnitude, thanks to the expected improvement in climatic conditions, it is estimated a reduction in demand for civil use of the order of 40 million cubic meters per day. This is what happens when the weather improves, as in this period (end of March), assuming that there are standard cold conditions, so not a late winter peak. Therefore, even a complete disruption of flows from Russia this week should not lead to internal supply problems. Any peaks of demand could be absorbed by appropriate modulation of residual storage volumes - our current residue is about 25% of what we had at the beginning of winter, a little less than usual this season, but we have all left in Europe with less storage - and with the other import capacities we should not have any kind of problem. Problems to ensure the supply to all Italian consumers in this scenario could occur only in the event of an exceptional peak of cold at the end of March or a catastrophic (disruptive) event on other import routes, which at this time we have no reason to even consider. We see the medium term, which is objectively the most worrying part. We need to fill up the storage at 90%. For the medium term we mean winter 2022-2023 (so, the end of this year and the beginning of next year). We should fill up the stocks at 90 percent for next winter, which means we need about 12 billion cubic meters to stock. The activation - hopefully with success - of the short and medium-term measures described below, and that I will shortly explain to you, even with some norms that are being published, should mitigate the criticality that today is essentially linked to the price. Here I come to the painful note. At this moment, in March 2022, we attested to an average price of 1.50 euros per cubic metre. So, to be very clear, if I were to store 10 billion cubic meters, I would need 15 billion euros. I'm doing a little empty-for-full calculation, but I think it's obvious. So whoever does this storage has to put 15 billion on the table. Let me remind you that a year ago, these days, when the gas was exactly the same as what is now, a little less, because now they are fluctuating slightly more, the cost was 30 cents per cubic meter. So, the same 10 billion would require an advance of 3 billion. Now, I have no intention of raising problems without proposing solutions, as someone wanted to understand; however, since the amount of gas is equal, it is not very justified that, at the same time, the price goes from 30 cents to 1.5 euros and therefore that storage costs me from 3 billion in advance, that the operator can do, to 15 billion, because it is a bit different. That was my statement, perhaps a little harsh, and I certainly did not express myself with legally correct terms, but I think you have understood the spirit: if the matter is the same, it is not possible to cost five times more, because we are bringing the operators, the citizens and all of them to their knees. Of course, there is no one in Italy who is doing something wrong. It is a problem of listing a market of these hubs, which do not work on the material produced, but by exchanging contracts, certificates and futures. This is a very serious problem, which not only is bringing Italy to its knees, but it is touching all European countries. Unfortunately, I cannot project the images I have obtained here, but we are monitoring every aspect with the European Commission and we have all the graphs of the evolution of the price of gas and, of course, electricity. As you know, in fact, and we will see it in a moment, the gas with the marginal determines the price of electricity. There is this continuous growth and then you can see that, the day the conflict breaks out, the charts have a surge. Comments have also been made in the international press that there can be influence on these quotations by even Russian producers. These are very sensitive issues at international level. We are dealing with them in the Commission and we have spoken with President Von Der Leyen's cabinet twice already and I will present you with some operational proposals. Of course, without having to be a lawyer or an expert, today we have a cost of 1.50 euros per cubic meter, while a year ago, for the same amount of gas, the cost was 30 cents. This is the problem that is putting everyone on his knees and you will see that then it will affect everything, from electricity to refineries (which, in order to produce the gas oil that is missing in this period, which is a little 'less, because Russia produces a good quantity, having these prices, obviously struggle to produce the product at normal prices). As a result, everything rises. This was a digression, which, however, served to put to the ground concepts that are incomprehensible not only to technicians, but also to operators. Today we have no reason why electricity or gas for thermal applications should cost so much. The medium-term problem, therefore, is storage. We are working and I will describe you after some measures that we are trying to move forward to mitigate and speed up storage. In the long term, then from next winter on, it would be necessary to completely replace the 29 billion cubic meters we take from Russia, that is, make us completely autonomous, differentiating our sources. Not only Italy, but also Europe: the RePower EU plan is coming out (part of the directive has already appeared, which will be published shortly), which sets out diversification in the first place. Fortunately, Italy already had a decent background of diversification, but it is clear that at this point we have to expand it. Clearly a three-year period is the minimum period to have a complete start of diversification, but we have done some actions, which I will talk about shortly, which are actually accelerating this process. It is worth remembering that everything I tell you is not only integral: I have always spoken to you of 30 billion cubic metres, but unfortunately we must not only have an independence on the share of these 30 billion that we take from Russia, but we must also do so intelligently, that is, respecting the peaks, because there are periods of the year in which we need eight in a month, while in another four. We must not therefore guarantee only the average value, but also its temporal distribution and this, from the point of view of operations, is not really trivial. The tension on the markets, after the sharp decrease in 2020, has also led to a dramatic increase in energy costs (so from gas we also make the switch to electricity). As I said earlier, the market for natural gas at the virtual exchange point (PSV) in Italy, following the numbers I was talking about earlier, has gone from 20 euros to the megawattora, which amounted to 20 cents per cubic metre, in January 2021, up to about 160 euros per megawattora, which is paid at 1.7 euros per cubic metre. Remember the calculation of storage and then see the relationship between the problem on storage and that on bills and, for obvious reasons, on industrial activities. This eight-fold increase, with daily and hourly peaks that in recent months have exceeded 200 euros per megawattora, is objectively very difficult to explain, understand and digest. As regards wholesale electricity prices, the national single price (PUN) recorded record values. In recent weeks the highest values have been reached since the Italian Stock Exchange was established: 600 euros have been exceeded at megawattora. In recent days the values have been around 300 euros per megawattora, also as a direct consequence of the prices of natural gas, which determine the marginal cost of gas generating plants. To be clear, to be completely independent of gas, for example with renewable sources, it takes time and we cannot do it in a year; if, to produce energy, we had to use even a cubic metre of gas, this as a marginal price would also lead to that of electricity, then it would have to influence the costs of all activities, both civil and private as well as industrial. The algorithm is a bit simplified, but if the gas price is 100, you can estimate that of electricity by multiplying 100 by two and adding 20 percent and the result is about 240. Of course, she's a rough estimate, as an expert, just to figure out what's going on. The algorithm is much more complex, but this gives you an idea. This is not an Italian phenomenon, but trends in all European countries, but they impact differently depending on the energy mix. It is clear that, having only gas (which is not ours, but we buy it from abroad) and renewables, obviously this affects us more than other countries that have made diversified energy choices. The point remains fundamental to me: it is not acceptable this increase in the price of gas, which is therefore upstream of an entire chain that we have just discussed and which actually only translates into the result of great speculation by certain hubs that do not produce, but only make transactions. I am thinking, at European level, of the Title transfer facility (TTF), which I mentioned earlier, and of the virtual exchange point (VSP), attached to it. That's the first thing I told you. This thing is recurring. I gave them names: it's called a market, then we discuss it. Moving on to the possible measures to increase the security of the system in the short and medium term, measures with short and medium-term impact have been activated over the last few weeks, including with missions to the producing countries (Qatar, Algeria, Angola and Congo) - because this is the diversification part - which is estimated to lead to a total reduction of the dependence of about 20 billion cubic meters per year. These include increasing imports of Algerian gas. In particular, an increase of 9 billion cubic metres per year is conceivable. This is why an agreement with the Algerian Government is essential to obtain additional gas pipeline supplies to Italy instead of the current export of LNG to other markets. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation visited Algeria on 28 February to explore and close these agreements. The second point is the increase in the import on the Trans Adriatic pipeline (TAP) infrastructure: it can be increased by 1.5 billion cubic metres per year in a fairly fast time, through interventions on the push stations of Albania and Greece, provided that they have additional volumes from Azerbaijan. The third point is the maximization of the use of liquid natural gas terminals. In particular we could increase the use of Italian terminals even in periods of the year in which they are typically not used, with a possible increase of about 6 billion cubic meters per year. This means additional LNG availability and better use of terminals, such as recently discussed with Qatar. Then there is the encouragement of the injection of gas in storage, to ensure that the filling cycle of storage, which is now starting in anticipation of the next winter period, is as fast and effective as possible, to ensure that the above gas saving measures have the effect of obtaining the actual injection of gas in storage. Otherwise, they would only be reduced to a mere import. These are all points that need to be regulated by regulatory instruments that are being evaluated. It is clear that we also have the possibility, in the event of an emergency, of using the production of coal-fired power stations, which are still in operation. In fact, some are in phase out for 2025, but they still produce and, in case of emergency, we have a few months of autonomy to produce a little more electricity. Obviously everything we are trying to do - and I say this here, that is clear to all - with equal gas, hoping there will not be a long tail of this disastrous war, is aimed at maintaining the 55% commitment to decarbonisation by 2030. Together with this, there is a very strong acceleration of measures in favour of renewables. In these days you are discussing the conversion into law of the measure which provides for the liberalization of up to 200 kilowatts, which is as much of renewables as they were maintenance. We unlocked half a gigawatt of wind plants a few days ago. We are trying to speed up, because the main road still remains to reduce consumption, on the one hand, and to accelerate alternative forms that are greenhouse gas free, on the other. Always thinking of the next winter periods, besides those described, one could intervene with measures of quota of the demand and of acceleration of the energy efficiency, therefore measures of flexibility on the consumption of gases (such as the interruptability of the industrial sector, that however must act for short periods weekly, only in case of peaks of the demand), also in the thermoelectric sector (where there are also measures of reduction of the load in controlled way), and measures of containment of the consumption in the other sectors. As you know, there is a consumption containment reserve plan at different levels, depending on the degree of emergency. They are ready, the state has them, and if they serve, they will be put into action. It is clear that we prepare ourselves for all possible scenarios, hoping that the worst ones will not come true. Then we can always think of an increase in imports of electricity from Northern Europe in order to reduce the consumption of gas in the Italian thermoelectric park. The possible structural measures to eliminate total dependence on imports from Russia require some consideration. I tell you the key points of the strategy. It is clear that a reflection has been launched here on structural measures that must be in line with the proposals of the European package that is being finalised, RePower EU: Joint European action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy, which is about to come out and provides for important measures. We are evaluating our ability to regasification on floating units, anchored near ports, where obviously we are also close to the points of attack on the gas network, which are achievable in twelve to eighteen months, for a total value that, according to theoretical values, ranges from 16 to 24 billion cubic meters. To be very clear, these are ships that make regasification near the point of entry. This solution is fast and flexible compared to land-based on-shore terminals and is cheaper, even if - as you can understand - at European level the race to regasification ships has started: there are not many and building them requires much, so you have to take what there are. As for the high rental costs, fortunately we moved first, having the idea of our dependence very strong, and we now have two or three options that we are considering. New on-shore regasification capacity: in particular, projects for land terminals are also feasible, which could guarantee about 20 billion cubic meters per year. However, the times are thirty-six-forty-eight months, so they are a little bigger infrastructure; in the meantime you can see the evolution, having however the floating ones that are permanent. The things I have told you, however, are not cumulative: the idea is not to do everything, because it would be excessive and would also require very strong LNG supplies, but we are considering in terms of time, cost and effectiveness how to get independence as soon as possible. We are therefore talking and comparing ourselves with all the operators. Then there is the possibility of a doubling of the capacity of the TAP, which would allow us to increase the flows by 10 billion cubic meters a year, but it is an operation that goes from forty-five to sixty-five months, because it is a matter of building an infrastructure. So we're looking at the whole range of possibilities. Keep in mind that this second measure would also need some intervention in Albania and Greece for pumping stations, so it would be a rather complex international operation, but we are analyzing it. Moreover - I have told you before and it is something that is already happening now - there is the acceleration of all the renewable projects offshore and on-shore; in particular, at this moment we have 40 gigawatts of requests for connection of offshore projects and numerous interventions of simplification and acceleration on renewables, not least - I have mentioned it a moment ago - what provides plants up to 200 kilowatts - if this decree-law will be converted as soon as possible, as I hope - that we can put on roofs and private areas for self-consumption, as if it were a maintenance, with a form, a module, without having to do long and complex authorization processes. Keep in mind - this to give you some metrics - that every 8 gigawatts of electrical power we install saves us an average of 3 billion cubic meters of gas. It is clear that this saving in time will improve and that is why I told you that the only real problem we have is in the medium term, that is the winter that comes and possibly the next (we hope that nothing will happen). On the rest, with the new gas that we are contracting, that goes to replace the Russian one, and with our race on other renewable alternative sources, in the medium to long period we do not see the problem. I would add that there is an increase in national production of 2.2 billion cubic meters of our gas - we have recently discussed this - from the current extraction stations, which will be used to alleviate the costs of the companies, and the introduction of mechanisms for withdrawal of national production by the Group Manager of Energy Services (GSE) at fair prices, to be assigned also to energy companies and small- and medium-sized enterprises. These measures are added to the others you already know. I also recall the transitional cancellation of the system charges, the strengthening of the social bonus, the reduction of VAT on gas and the introduction of extraordinary contributions in the form of tax credit: these are the things you have seen in the recent measures. I quote again the introduction of interventions in favor of the field of the road haulage, the support to the needs of liquidity of the enterprises and the participations on the electricity produced from renewable plants (that they enjoyed fixed incentive pre-2010). It is clear that, as I said just now, we have started a very dense European discussion with the Commission, precisely in view of the RePower EU plan. Take into account that the Directive provides for measures to mitigate the impact on residential prices and for small businesses, especially in retail; state aid rules to cope with high energy costs for businesses; tax measures for extra profit to finance support measures. This is foreseen by the RePower EU plan, so everything we are doing now we are doing with one eye at RePower EU, which will probably come out by the end of the month or in the coming weeks, possibly ready to make adjustments, if necessary. In this context, however, I would like to share an important point with you. We have proposed very important structural measures for Europe; we have presented them to the Cabinet of President von der Leyen and they are currently under discussion. The first measure proposed, which is very striking, is a price cap, i.e. a temporary maximum price at European level on wholesale natural gas transactions. Since I have been asked by several parties for names, this would be a countermeasure for the impossibility of controlling the gas prices made by the TTF and other exchanges. The price cap, in addition to bringing direct benefit to gas consumers (because it is said that the whole of Europe should be presented to the world with a price cap), would also bring significant benefits to electricity market prices as far as I told you before, because they depend on the price of gas. There were and still are objections from those who obviously host these markets, but also from some other countries that say: if we make a fixed price, then exporters (i.e. those who sell gas) can say that the price is low and we do not sell gas. But we must be careful: Europe buys three quarters of the world's gas in the pipeline. There is therefore a supply and demand relationship: if Europe were to say that it does not want to pay more than that, exporters would not have so many other big markets such as Europe where to put gas into the pipeline. Here, unfortunately, physical infrastructure counts. We have a lot of pipelines and, in a way, this infrastructure links us to exporters. It cannot be easily said: I don't sell it to you and I give it to another, because if the other doesn't have the pipeline, it has to be turned into liquid natural gas and the market is different. This will happen, but not in a year. Moreover, it is true that there are large fast-paced countries in the construction of infrastructure - I am referring in particular to China - and that Russia could therefore sell much of its gas to China. However, at the moment there is a pipeline. In order to sell a large quantity of them, such as the one we are thinking about, infrastructure should be built and time needed. At this time we are using our energy mix and all the necessary measures, such as renewables, savings and future energy mixes, and we will have time to become more autonomous. The second measure we have proposed is the decoupling of the selling prices of energy produced by renewable technologies compared to thermoelectric production. I've been very insistent about this; it's really a market design issue. If I produce renewable energy that, in addition to having all the benefits we know - and let's forget it - at this time is cheaper, why do I have to pay it by adjusting to the price of the thermal energy produced with the gas? This measure was proposed many years ago when it made sense because renewables cost a lot and the gas was very economical and therefore served, thanks to the profits of the State, to encourage the use of renewables. Now, for a number of reasons that we have also discussed with some perplexity, gas costs too much and it is doubly wrong to hook renewables to that market value. So: price cap on the same gas for the whole of Europe (it would be great news) and disconnecting the price of electricity from the price of gas. They seem to be two reasonable things, which obviously have a huge impact on very well-established and complex market rules to change. I will conclude with the trend in the prices of fuel for transport, which is the last in the chain: gas and electricity, we are talking about petrol and diesel. With regard to the cost of traction fuels, since the beginning of the year there has been an increase in the costs of the Brent that has touched tips of 130 dollars per barrel, starting from 78. The value of the barrel is around $100 these days. This is partly the result of increases in fuel costs, which have also led to apprehension on the part of many production groups. But do not forget what we said before: it is precisely the cost of the same gas, of the same energy, which serves in refineries to transform to impact on the final cost. In addition, the operators spoke to me about a decrease in the availability of diesel, due to the problems with Russia, by about 8% (on this thing I go to memory). So, there is an objective decrease in the availability of diesel. On petrol the problem is less important from the point of view of quantities. There is a market problem because the cost of the barrel has increased and the costs of producing these finished fuels that we put in the tank, which binds to what I have told you before. To mitigate the increase in the Brent United States and the European Union have operated an oil release. We have joined this proposal by contributing 2 million barrels in the period March-September, with the aim of reducing the peak of prices. I must also say that these are very small quantities; if we look at the whole, small quantities have been introduced. However, I know that the United States is pushing to increase the quantities to be placed on the market. In order to reduce the impact on final consumers, we are considering applying a mobile excise duty on fuels. As there has been more VAT revenue, due to the fact that the base has increased, this increased revenue could be used to reduce the excise duty correspondingly and have a price decrease at the pump. We know very well that operating on traction fuels is very complex. In these days you have seen that we are around 2.30 euros per litre, while in December 2021 we were around 1.70 euros; this is the combination of a market issue (the price of the barrel), a bit 'of diesel deficiency and the rising cost (really a bit 'exaggerate, at this point) of gas and energy that serves industrial processes. I'll stop right here. Thank you for your attention and I hope that what I have told you is clear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the ecological transition. Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u6	Madam President, Italy Viva has requested this appointment, for which we thank you, we thank the Conference of Group Presidents and of course we thank the Minister, because we think that we are risking a great deal on this issue. In the everyday life of families this story is weighing like a tsunami, both for strictly economic needs and for a matter of trust. After two years of Covid, there comes a further blow; and we know how important confidence in the economy is. Therefore, we have requested this appointment and we are satisfied, Minister, with your considerations. We add our own, very briefly; time allows nothing but individual tweets. First, however, we anticipate that we are talking about a war and, when we talk about a war, the first image, the first thought, the first moment of reflection go to those families that are losing their loved ones, to those images of pregnant women who lose children, to those images of families that are forced to leave Ukraine [[Applause]] , reaffirming that there is an attacker, Putin's Russia, and there is an attacker, Ukraine. There can be no doubt about that. There is one more element, however; I think we are in the presence of a upheaval. Those who say that what Putin is doing is humoral in my opinion are wrong. What Putin is doing is immoral, but it is not humoral; he is the son of a strategic vision that is moving the map of the world to the East. On this the Minister is right to say that there are still no pipelines; but in the agreements of 2021 and 2022 it is clear that there is a Russia-China pact that opens up to the South-East and, more generally, to the Asian and African countries. This must make us think and ask ourselves what we want to do when we grow up, as the European Union. Yesterday, Zelensky rightly said that Ukraine will not enter NATO. Once we have said this, which is an important point in reaching a truce, the question is: what strategic mission does NATO have today? To fight Islamic terrorists and cyber attacks or to be a memory of the past? It is a great issue, which we cannot discuss here today. What is certain is that the world is moving east and that China is becoming more and more central. We have to start from this. To get to say what? To get to the consequences in our lives. Today, with what has happened, thanks also to the action of the Minister, it is clear that no time is over regardless of the plant. For a fifteen years there was a no drinking regardless. I was the President of the Province and I had no committees at the waste-to-energy plants. I was a mayor, and I had no for any power surgeries. I did the President-in-Office of the Council and I had the no on the TAP. Now I don't want to be claiming what we did. The fundamental point is that on this planet or the issue of energy is placed as a key, not only for an economic issue, but for a matter of justice, or they all take us away and we will be increasingly insignificant in the international chessboard I was trying to outline quickly. For this reason it is absurd that there are regions that have blocked not only the drills, but the renewables. And this has happened in recent months and we must have the courage to say that it has hurt our portfolio and our credibility. [[Applause]] After that, Minister, you said that you will bring the Italian proposal to Europe so that there is a cost ceiling and it is essential, also because, if you rightly say that there is a fraud - you did well to say so - it is clear that the people are the cons, but we must also say with force that the con men must be put in a position not to cheat anymore. The fundamental point is that we need a roof, because the house of Italians needs a roof at the cost of petrol and at the cost of bills, which are driving our families crazy. To conclude, by jumping on a whole series of considerations that I would have liked to make you, Minister, it is okay to go in the direction of putting a final ceiling at the expense of the Italians, but you also have the courage to put this dynamic in a wider frame. The world is changing and the world requires a new protagonism of Italy. One cannot make a long-term reasoning without thinking that in the meantime families, businesses, the RSAs, the world of schools and everyday life are suffering a crisis that was not expected and has no comparison imaginable in the last thirty years. Good job, Minister. We're with you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u8	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information he has given us, partly because there are a number of increases, some of which are children of war, while others have occurred before the conflict even began. I read a statement from the ARERA, the Regulatory Authority for Energy Networks and Environment, of 30 December 2021: light + 55 percent, gas +41 percent and there was still no conflict. For a family like the change of the bill, always according to that statement, will be 68 percent for the energy and 64 percent for the gas. I would add that we are faced with real speculation. You, Minister, said that there is a speculative increase, but when there are speculative increases, there is intervention. I know there's an investigation by the Republic Attorney and the Finance Guard is active. In 2008, at the time of the Lehman Brothers crisis, the cost of a Brent barrel was $147.50; in these days it peaked at $139. However, while the cost of gas oil exceeded that of petrol, reaching more than 2.3 euros per litre, in 2008 the cost of petrol was around 1.37-1.40 euros per litre: other than speculation, therefore. In order to avoid the fair of hypocrisy, the Minister said that mobile excise duties must be made. I have tabled amendments dozens of times in this regard, we have had press conferences in the Nassirya Room for mobile excise duties and to set a ceiling, but unfortunately all those amendments have been rejected, partly because there are eighteen one-off petrol charges: the Suez crisis, etc. I start to conclude by reading the 2021 tax revenue bulletin: there has been a significant increase in VAT and excise duties, despite the pandemic. The excise duty on energy products and their derivatives (gas, electricity) has increased from EUR 21 billion to EUR 23 billion, an increase of 28%. Mr President, we are also paying for the sanctions that have been imposed on Russia. Wars - Mr President - are made by people who kill themselves without knowing each other, for the sake of people who know each other but who do not kill themselves, as the great Chilean poet Pablo Neruda wrote. [[Applause]] We must work for diplomatic solutions, not fueling the conflict with arms. Mr President, we all work for diplomatic solutions and peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u10	Mr President, if I were to make a title of the Minister's report, it would be: The Minister's chatter will not stop the expensive bills and the carovita. This government will be remembered in Italian history for the absolute inability to manage and solve problems. You started with the green pass, a tool used to force people to vaccinate, and you still keep it up, even though the pandemic is over all over the world. The economic crisis knocks at the door of our families and businesses and you still insist on keeping workers without green passes out of work, causing damage to both families and the economy. We come to the theme of expensive energy and expensive bills. You claimed that a scam is going on, but where are the controllers? Where's the government? Where is super Mario Draghi, the one who has put together a very large majority, so wide that it does not even enter this Parliament anymore and to throw out Parliament itself? Whatever man it takes, the man who saved the euro, why don't you save the families now? Perhaps because for a central banker, who trained in Goldman Sachs, finance is more important than the real economy, markets are more important than families. Your report was not convincing at all, Minister. In the end, the message that resists, that remains stuck is what we have to resign ourselves to lower the radiators and consume less energy. Your choices will result in suffering and closure. You have chosen to participate in a war by giving weapons and military instruments to one of the parties and now you are surprised that the market reacts, that the market is possessed by the demon of neoliberalism and therefore speculi. It speculates more easily when a state is not sovereign. Today you are blocking the system charges, which is different from a structural review of the system charges. In recent months I had repeatedly asked Parliament and the Government to reflect on the fact that we could reward the consumer who consumes renewable energy by removing the system charges; with those system charges we would have gone to encourage renewables. But she has remained a dead letter and, still today, that principle is and remains a dead letter. You don't want to understand that we have to intervene in a structural way. Families will notice this prestigious game. System charges will increase in the coming quarters, just as the accounting records and all the deadlines you had suspended and kept frozen are returning, but they are suddenly melting. Families and small entrepreneurs feel these things. This suffering is in the country. The rest are useless blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah There is no real investment intervention on renewables and energy policies. To get away from Russia, you go to Qatar and Azerbaijan, two well-known champions of democracy: good wishes, then, Minister. Even today the Government of the Best is revealed as the Government of the Magic Pipers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u11	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u12	Mr Minister, you have reported to us data that you had, in essence, already communicated in the past days during the various hearings. Not only is Russia a problem with regard to supply: there are dozens of ongoing conflicts in the various parts of the world that should make us understand that sticking to fossil sources is still a huge problem in terms of reliability. [[Applause]] Russia's problem is what we have at the moment, but it is just another demonstration that we need to move as fast as possible to renewables. You have given us some indication of what is happening and that you are trying to move forward in Europe. The idea of having a separate market for renewables is an idea that must be implemented, especially at this time, also for reasons of speed, with long-term contracts for renewables, so as to have guaranteed prices for both the producer side and the sales side. As a 5 Star Movimento Group, we tabled a motion a month ago containing 27 proposals, including the financial ones - excise duty, VAT, the various guarantee funds - in which there are also interventions that have been rejected and have disappeared from the last measures adopted, in particular a guarantee fund for companies that want to generate electricity for their needs, or a kind of energy superbonus for companies, giving them a tax credit, which may be 70 or 80 percent, but always linked to energy efficiency projects. Furthermore, Minister, we must inform ourselves about so many measures and the public funds available, but they are hardly known by anyone. We have been traveling Italy for two years to inform about the energy communities, introduced during the Count Government and which are still totally unknown and this is a huge sin [[Applause]] , because they could allow very fast savings. Building plants with renewable sources, at this time, is the fastest solution and many Italians do not realize that self-producing electricity will become more and more a distinguishing factor, because apart from industrial uses, for families electricity today means appliances, but many do not know that a tomorrow - which is actually already today - thermal, cooking, mobility will use electricity. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the structural changes, because it is true, as you said, that we must push on renewables as much as possible, but we must also understand that certain sectors need to be heavily reformed. I am referring to logistics and mobility. The gas must be used for the hard to abbot industries, until we have enough hydrogen to change that sector too, but on mobility and logistics we must move a whole structure, we must push very much on local public transport and rail, which are an extremely efficient system and the savings that we could achieve in this respect are enormous. I also ask you for an effort to complete the reform of the dispatching market, because this is a bit more technical and expert, but at the moment it is fossil hunting ground, on which they make a lot of revenue because in practice it is a fossil monopoly, technical rules are lacking. I know that the Energy Regulatory Authority for Networks and Environment (ARERA) is working very hard on this, but we absolutely need to speed it up. I would ask you, Minister, to make a commitment to the electrification of consumption both on the superbonus side and on the logistics side, because at this moment the savings that we could achieve is enormous: it would be billions of cubic metres of gas that we would no longer need to import. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u13	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u14	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not just talking, as Mr Cingolani has done, about strategic measures to deal with an extraordinary energy emergency. We are also discussing - this is the request made by the Group of which I am a member - measures to be taken immediately and a name and a surname to be given to the colossal scam that Italy and to a large extent Europe have witnessed. Three years ago, Minister, I asked a question about the cost of electricity: no answer. Two years ago I retabled that question, always on the same subject: no answer. A month ago - let me convince you: I have no special information coming from worlds, secret services or anything else - I filed a question where there was already talk of extra profit in the gas world; no war had broken out, Putin had not invaded Ukraine yet, but the trace was obvious. I appreciated your courage when you spoke with the clarity that has marked it, which is ugly - not its clarity, but the evidence of the facts - because, when you are in the heart of a complicated economic recovery from the pandemic emergency, in the face of a war exploded in the heart of Europe, watching speculations by shark of this nature, financial speculators of this nature, is unspeakable. Now, however, we must have the courage to take an extra step. You rightly spoke this morning of measures to be taken today and of a strategic forecast of the measures to be taken to free Italy from an energy dependence: perfect. However, since the European Union, the United States and NATO have imposed sanctions on Russian oligarchs - with their names, surnames and addresses - I do not want to insist, but they also have a name, surname and address for the great financial speculators. And since they have a name, a surname and an address, therefore, a residence, it is possible to hit them; it is possible to hit the extra profit with Community regulations, of course, above all, but it is possible and necessary to hit even the extra profiteers, who are the sharks of which Scalarini spoke a hundred years ago. I'll cut to the chase and finish. We know very well, even if the thing is unknown to 98 percent of Italians, who believe that the increase in the price of gas and energy are children of war, that only in very small part is so; indeed, it is not so. It's not. The final price of gas - as we know - does not depend on demand or supply; the increase arises because the purchase and sale contracts are subject to bets made by financial operators. Are there funds - I ask, even Italians? - there are banks - I ask, even Italians? - that they bet on the trend of that price and, insofar as they bet that the price rises (also causes geopolitical conflicts), the price naturally goes up, with different effects. I remember two in addition to yours. The first: since the price of all types of energy is parametrated on gas, as is known, when the price of gas rises, the price of renewables and energy also increases. There is more: the price of other products naturally increases. There is more: because inflation for two thirds depends on energy, keeping the price of gas under control, the inflation expected today around 5% - the economists say - could fall around 2. That's all I'm gonna say. I am not talking about measures; I agree with yours. Senator Renzi has remembered which should be those to accompany this initiative, but - I have concluded, President - do not stop, Minister; make sure why to those questions the Governments previous to this have never given answer. I understand that we touch very slippery terrain, perhaps even with national effects, and not only referring to planetary hubs, Martians or even Pluto. No, I'm talking about Italy. We owe those answers to Italian families and those who are committed to the economic growth of this extraordinary country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u15	Senator Garner Santanch is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u16	Madam President, Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have come to tell us in this House and I say to you that I had the impression that yours was a report, a lesson almost from university, explaining the cubic meters, explaining various problems, from where we import the gas and more. Minister, I believe that in this House, that of the Senate of the Republic, you should have brought solutions today. He should have let the Italians know what will happen to their lives, their businesses, their families in the coming weeks. Instead, he didn't say anything about it at all. In our opinion, there are two fundamental elements: the war that Putin waged in Ukraine has changed and is changing the world. Therefore, in his report today he should at least have mentioned the PNRR, which is obsolete today and has no sense of existence as it was written and thought. [[Applause]] If I am not mistaken, about 40% of the resources are on the ecological transition. Do you think that at this moment, where they are bombing, where they are killing, the theme is the ecological transition or the survival of our industries and our families? When you came to the industry committee, you considered my question provocative. It is not provocative, Minister, but simply of common sense. In life, in fact, not everything is an immovable paracarriage. If there are situations, which certainly none of us had considered and which we are living, things change. You're the government of the best. There is a President-in-Office of the Council who is certainly authoritative, who in Europe can express his vision, without it and without it, and I hope that he will also be heard. What are you waiting to tell us that that PNRR needs to be changed in its foundation? That's the first question I'd like you to answer, which you haven't done yet. In addition, Minister, there is a second element. In addition to this frightening war that we are experiencing, our businesses have been living for two and a half years, three winters, a series of economic disasters and I believe you know the life of the real country. Everything that has happened, in fact, has certainly impacted very much on our economic life. Therefore, it is time to understand what needs to be done. For us as Brothers of Italy, what needs to be done is very simple: we need to immediately put our hands on excise duties and VAT, not to worry more about economic coverage. Given the escalation of prices, the state has collected more VAT and today could have the money to calm down all those highly energetic production sectors and perhaps make them work more quietly. Mr Minister, what will happen when you imagine, because we do not have the confidence of this, not to intervene on prices or perhaps to intervene late, throwing away time, that time that businesses and families do not have? If you do not decide today, but perhaps it was good to do so yesterday, to lower the price of diesel and energy, the companies will close, the companies will fire and the cost on the social shock absorbers will be much higher than the intervention that you should do today. This is therefore a very short-sighted vision. Minister, we are also pleased when you say that perhaps within thirty or forty months we will be able to be less dependent on Russia or other countries. Families and businesses, however, are not thirty-six, forty months old; families and businesses are thinking of tomorrow! Did you see what's going on in the transport sector? We are one of the countries with the highest number of trucks for road transport and if they stop, everything will stop, because we will have the problem of going to the supermarket to do the shopping. I therefore think that you should take action without delay. I would have expected you to come to this House today to say that energy is a primary asset. So far, in fact, I've talked to her about companies and families, but I could also talk to her about all those people who are disabled and fragile, who are currently attached to machines to keep living. [[Applause]] Do you realize that there are Italians for whom energy is a primary asset, because without that tube attached to a plug they would die? Can we say, then, that energy is a primary asset? I haven't heard a word from this government about fragile people. Minister, you must give us an answer because when a Minister of the Republic says that there is a gigantic scam and that there are speculators, you must tell us if they are natural persons, and in that case you must say name and surname, or if the speculators and scammers are those who today determine the price, because in that case you, as Minister and member of the Government, in two minutes can decide - if this is the problem - to reevaluate the price formation. Brothers of Italy have said this for many days and yesterday a motion was also presented to the House. Our proposals are simple but effective and, above all, would impact tomorrow on the lives of businesses and families. I cannot understand why, perhaps by deciding to evaluate three months in three months, it is not established that VAT and excise duties will be eliminated tomorrow. You know very well, Minister, that in that way the price would be completely different. [[Applause]] I am sorry, to some extent, to correct a professor, but I must remind you that a few days ago you said that the average price of fuels would not exceed EUR 1.95. On Monday, March 7, he took over the average price of fuel weekly and reported a finished price of 1.95 euros per litre for green petrol; as we know, however, he exceeded the 2.30 euros amply. In that case too, perhaps it would be better not to make such a daring forecast, which, in one way, could put citizens in a more tranquil position, thinking that that is the maximum price, because you know that it will most likely come over EUR 4 per litre. In conclusion, Minister, today we did not expect a lesson or a report; we believed that the Italians, who hang from his lips, could understand if their trucks can circulate, if they can continue to produce tiles, if paper mills can still make paper, if those Italian excellences can still continue to produce, because there are no solutions from university lessons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u17	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, Senators and Senators, we are in the presence of an unbearable rise in energy prices, which are being dumped - as you, Minister, rightly pointed out in your report - on families and businesses. This is the indispensable starting point for the Democratic Party. We are in the presence of dramatic moments, of a war in the heart of Europe, of weeks of anguish and of companies that are at risk of closing down; indeed, many have already closed down and others are about to close in the face of energy increases. We are in the presence of fuel costs, and not only petrol, but also diesel and methane, which in our country were not seen as lustres. And that is what the government must do first, certainly not alone, but with the support of the whole of Parliament. The energy security of our country, affordable prices and energy are key strategic issues for us, for businesses and our families. Minister, over the last few days and even today you have rightly spoken of unacceptable speculations, while some have also spoken of scams. It is right to stress this, but it is not enough: names and surnames must be reported. The magistrates have opened up a thread of inquiry, but we have the political responsibility, when we denounce and do well to denounce such facts, to identify those responsible and, consequently, to find remedies. The Democratic Party has not been with its hands and, precisely to face the unbearable increases in household and business bills, it has proposed very concretely a programme of very concrete actions aimed at helping our families and our businesses in practice. I see Senator Misiani in the Chamber who made the first presentation yesterday. I am referring simply to the reduction of excise duties, linked to the sterilization of VAT, to the support of road hauliers, to the energy and gazivore companies so-called hard-to-abate, that is, those that consume enormous quantities of energy in order to carry out their industrial process (chemicals, iron and steel, glass companies, cement factories and others). Here too there are very concrete proposals, such as, for example, the extension of the tax credit until the end of the year and many other measures. Our companies must be helped and safeguarded because they come out of the dramatic years of the Covid and enter in equally dramatic years because of the cost of energy. The same commitment that the Government has put in the past two years in what we can call the war against the Covid, must put it in the question of the energy crisis. Then there is the whole family section. We have proposed the energy allowance, targeted and selective interventions based on the ISEE of course and not rain, indiscriminate and indistinct, in support of families. A presentation has been made, also very analytical from the quantitative point of view, which speaks of millions of families that can be supported in the expensive bills over the coming weeks and months. How do you finance this, Minister? Certainly, at a time when we say that there are extra profits, we must also have the courage to say that these profits, which concern not the managerial capacity of the companies, but exogenous conditions to them, have resulted in other profits or profits useful for those companies also of billions of euros: at European level 200 billion euros in 2021; at national level there are companies that have had extra profits for hundreds of million euros compared to 2019. Then it is right to ensure that this wealth, which is not due to a strategic managerial capacity, is redistributed to those who are paying the price, and therefore to businesses and families. [[Applause]] The contribution of solidarity for these extra-profits therefore seems to us to be an absolute task. We are very happy - of course it is not our fault - to see that our project, which had even taken the form of an amendment to the so-called'support' decree-law, was done precisely by the Government and the European Union. At last week's Versailles meeting, the objective of achieving such an operation at European level was achieved. Mr Minister, you have rightly spoken of the price cap, of putting a roof at the cost of all fossil commodities and in particular gas: it is absolutely correct. It is truly amazing: we are at 160 euros per megawattora; but we are thinking of bringing it - in President Draghi's project, if I understood correctly - to 100 euros in the first month, and then down to 90-80 euros. You rightly mentioned the fact that a year ago it was EUR 17, so we are talking - about extra profits - about colossal revenue to be redistributed and cut. Of course, this must be a strong national operation, but it must also be a Union operation, because individual states are not able to manage such operations, for obvious reasons. In the same way, the decoupling of sales prices between renewable energy and other sources must certainly be a major action of the national government, but it must be in conjunction with a major action at European level. Minister, in this respect we will fully support the Government because we know that this is the intention. Here is the second step and then there is the third: how can we achieve the national energy autonomy and energy autonomy of the European Union? The first point is to eliminate or drastically reduce dependence on Russian gas and gas. Our country system has two problems from this point of view. We are the second largest Russian gas importer in the West, after Germany. We know that the countries of Visegrd in Eastern Europe depend on 90-95 percent: I am talking about Poland and Hungary, but also about Austria. At the same time, however, we are also the second largest European country for the consumption of gas in the production of total energy, after Holland. We are therefore very exposed from this point of view. Mr Minister, it is absolutely correct what you said and you will have our support. In the short term we have to respond to these dramas: it is therefore correct to increase relations with Algeria and Libya for Greenstream and Transmed; to take liquefied natural gas (GNL) from Qatar, Congo and other African countries; to increase reserves to 17 billion euros and to think about how we can achieve this goal. Certainly this is a transitional response; also because, if we move our energy dependence from Russian instability to Algerian and Congolese instability, it is quite clear that it is not the answer of the future. I don't know if you know. I mean that Wagner is not completely disconnected from what is also happening in Algeria, and the situation in Libya is not exactly that of a mature and stable democracy that provides long-term guarantees; unless we want to depend on gas in the future, but we know very well that the great gas reserves worldwide are in Iran and Russia, and that is what we have already said. I'm going to the third step, Minister. Energy autonomy must be on a more advanced track than the immediate response - that of gas - that we rightly have to give. Minister, you know better than I that Futura Electricity, which represents 500 companies in Confindustria and 70% of national production, has submitted projects for 60 gigawatts of renewable energy to be obtained by June, and supports - data and projects at hand, you know - that you have 85 billion euros on renewables to be invested in three years with the creation of 80,000 jobs and the energy equivalent of a cut of 15 billion cubic meters of gas, i.e. more than 50% of the national import from Russia. At the outcome of Terna's last auction in the capacity market, Enel decided not to convert even the power plants of La Spezia, Civitavecchia and Brindisi to gas. There are therefore all the extremes for a great project of conversion and energy security of our country. In the long run it is of every evidence that it is economically, socially and politically convenient for our country to continue with great determination along that path. The government will have our support on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u19	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information and I would like to ask him immediately, as a premise, not to be intimidated by the controversy that has arisen when he has rightly spoken of speculation. Other Members have taken up this issue and we are also asking you not only to move forward, but also to take action. It is always right to denounce, but then, connected with the European partners, we must put in place actions that can intervene on this mechanism, which is absolutely of financial speculation. Let me turn to the second question. It is clear that we are now facing a very complicated and difficult situation, which is creating a lot of problems for our country. As evidence of the fact that you went in the right direction when you spoke of speculation, we now have the peak because of the conflict and the dramatic worsening of the situation, but you know perfectly well that there had already been a rise in prices. This is so true that on the question that we put to so many people, and that we propose today with force, that is to hit the extra profits and use them to help our businesses and families with a contribution of solidarity, we had begun to speak within the Government - as you know - already two months ago, but then nothing has been done. I believe that now is the time to intervene on the mechanism of speculation and to use all the great resources we have, which are not hundreds of millions, but billions, even of some of our national players, to help families and businesses. We cannot afford an increase in inflation, nor can we afford an economic recession. With regard to urgent action to be taken, you, Minister, have told us about what the Government is trying to put in place, namely to replace Russian gas with that of other markets. The point - as you well know, Minister - is that we continue to try to supply ourselves with untrustworthy markets in terms of democracy and stability. If the dramatic war in progress is ended - hopefully quickly - we risk being exposed to the Congo, Angola and Algeria. It is therefore clear that we must put in place a structural strategy that must clearly focus on the energy sovereignty, independence and energy security of the country, setting goals to be verified in the short, medium and long term. What happened? Someone here, at the beginning of this debate, was talking about the usual blocking of renewables. But the data are clear: unfortunately, since 2014 our country has invested less, renewables have gradually stopped (compared to the previous decade) and our dependence on Russian gas has increased - by chance -. I believe that in ten years we have gone from 30% to almost 45%. This means that we made mistakes and the big mistake was the fact that we did not say that ecological transition is a dream, but that we did not start it long before. I would also like to say, very clearly, that we have the opportunity today to use the dramatic contingency and the current emergency to recover the previously lost time. If we don't do it now, tell me when we'll ever do it. One thing must be clear: the problems that we draw ourselves from are not only related to the emergency or the problem of Russia, but also derived from the wrong choices made in the past, they are structural problems. Senator Girotto used to talk about mobility, for example. We are the country that I believe has the record of transporting goods on rubber. I would like to take this example to say that, of course, we must now make up for the delays we have accumulated in recent years. And if a revision of the PNRR is to be made, it should be aimed at speeding up even more in this direction, so that even more resources can be allocated to sustainable mobility, railways and renewables. Some data were provided just now by my colleague, Mr Ferrazzi. These are important data about what we can do right away. You know better than I do, Minister, that we have requests filed for 150 gigawatts, more or less. Some can be done immediately, while others take longer. But we must have clear objectives. And the goal must also be to finally have the phase out of the gas (we did not write it in the PNIEC): in two years we decrease by a certain amount, in five years another and in ten years we must reach the goal of independence. It is absolutely important what you said about the roof, about the price cap at European level. It is also, if not more important, decoupling: we absolutely agree with the decoupling of renewables from gas and, therefore, the creation of intervention on the market itself. So much is being discussed today about the issue of bills. Here, too, we could take structural action by passing - for example - the systemic burden on general taxation, which is one of the issues we have been discussing for a long time. So let's face the emergency, Minister, having clear the general vision and perspective: more ecological transition because we do the good of the country, our families and our businesses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u21	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many have already said this and it is before everyone's eyes: the world is changing. It is normal for the world to change, but it is doing so at an uncontrollable speed and there is a need for extraordinary measures, for a virtuous revolution as only a great system crisis can produce. The first revolution would be to stop the war. We are facing a global pandemic, we are entering a war economy, even without tanks on the territories, and now we need large and fast counter-measures to avoid being overwhelmed. We need vision and strategy, as well as emergency tactics. We need immediate, decisive and profound action to review systems in the economic, financial, energy and social fields. By fences and by ideological walls that hold back initiatives, in the knowledge that we no longer have time to make mistakes. [[Applause]] The country must be listened seriously to to restore that trust in the institutions and democratic representation, for which we are responsible. Families and businesses are now - it would have to be said - at the gas barrel, but there is neither gas, because it costs too much. [[Applause]] We therefore need quick and effective decisions. But, in order to restore trust in those who represent them and govern them, it is necessary that we first, Government and Parliament together, give confidence to those who can govern change, thanks to the most precious and abundant raw material that this country possesses, which is the ingenuity. [[Applause]] To the ingenuity is added the great ability to undertake at every level: from the smallest artisan enterprise to the largest industry, this country is able to perform miracles, however, if the right conditions are created. Italy is a country that works and has put work among its founding values, but we must allow it to move. I take the opportunity to remember Marco Biagi during the anniversary of his death. [[Applause]] Minister Cingolani, today with a proactive will Forza Italia, a majority force that supports the Government, addresses you who can determine the choices on the most important issues at this time: energy, technological innovation, environmental, economic and social sustainability, concessions, authorizations, checks, controls and protection systems. Today we are at your side to help you realize the transformation that the country expects and needs so much courage. I think you do not lack the courage, as we are here with you today, putting to the ground an energy policy that has not been implemented for thirty years. I am thinking of the PNIEC, the National Integrated Plan for Energy and Climate, already obsolete and not yet updated. We immediately simplify procedures, iter authorization; we encourage investments; we reward and facilitate business conversions and innovation; we make the work flexible we focus on energy communities and self-consumption; we put into operation unused drills and we use our gas immediately. [[Applause]] We give certainties to those who produce and create work with structural measures and incentives, because companies need structurality, making structural the golden power at least in terms of energy; ensuring the protection of our strategic assets such as hydroelectric and renewable; extending the concessions to our Italian operators to allow them new investments and revamping; implementing the sacred principle of reciprocity both within the European Community, and to those who come from outside, with the Allied State of the Regions that regulate. Then, the most important action: to build plants in every point of Italy to enhance the collection, disposal and recycling of waste. [[Applause]] Waste is a fortune. The circular economy must be strengthened beyond measure in order to be able to produce and use those second raw materials that can compensate for the lack of raw materials. I repeat: let us break down the ideological walls. Enough with the committees of the "no", which say "no" even to the realization of plants for the production of renewable energy, or a dependence that is financing the war. [[Applause]] This addiction is financing the war. On the other hand, training and skills need to be strengthened to govern innovation and inform citizens correctly in order to overcome the NIMBY syndrome that creates the incentive to strongly want sustainability, but always far from its own vision, because this is called hypocrisy. [[Applause]] We must run with the decrees end of waste; we facilitate, speed up, simplify the practices for recycling. Let us think about the production of residues; let us take action on consortia to facilitate them. We no longer send garbage abroad. We no longer pay to export the value with which energy is produced abroad. Stop. [[Applause]] Fortunately, the Ministry approved our amendment on the extension of the storage capacity of electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), after extending the television and household appliances bonus. We increase the use of biofuels, for whose production Italy has the technologies, using waste and biomass, not forgetting Biomethane. Today the energy mix needs to be expanded: only gas and renewables will not be enough. We need research and infrastructure for electricity and hydrogen. We must get used to different views if we are to maintain the well-being to which we are accustomed. Infrastructure is needed to avoid the paradox of large Italian ships powered by liquefied natural gas (GNL), which, however, is transported from Rotterdam on ships that go to diesel: these things happen. Let's run the research on clean nuclear. Let us run, teaching the difference between fission and fusion; remembering that we do not lower taxes also because we are already in breach of the single nuclear deposit and because we pay a high price for the export of our radioactive waste. [[Applause]] Mr Cingolani, you are a prepared, straightforward, direct person who has the courage to denounce the problems, which must be resolved. Today we want to suggest a range of solutions, which should all be implemented together, immediately. You who lead an absolutely central Ministry in choices have a great responsibility and are not afraid to share it with Parliament, the voice of the country, with choices and with responsibility. We are aware that we will have to work hard immediately, to work hard not only to keep Italy afloat, but also to make it navigate and finally make it free and independent. For this reason, first of all, we must give answers to families and businesses, to make them survive today, in order to be able to bring them into a regime. You don't have to be afraid. We must make alliances with those who produce and create jobs, with those who have shown that they know how to do it, and let them do it, by putting themselves at their side as facilitators, by establishing certain rules and very heavy sanctions for those who do not respect them. There are emergencies today and they must be solved immediately, starting from the expensive bills and the cost of the fuels, whose half of the price is tax levy, that it is putting to knees the road haulage and to risk the supplyings. If you stop the road haulage, stop the country, stop the trade, stop the hospitals, stop the schools: everything stops. [[Applause]] It is therefore priority number one. Rather, we investigate speculation and stand down, helped by Europe. Forza Italia (both President Berlusconi in Brussels and the Forza Italia Group as a whole in the Senate) asked serious questions on this issue. The removal of excise duties is an investment, not a failure to enter. [[Applause]] We ask with force, we are asking: it would cost more inertia. If the road haulage stops, the country stops. They cost more than 4 billion scams on eco bonuses than not to stop speculators, imposing a roof on prices. There are 200,000 firms in difficulty; one million jobs at risk, suppliers who do not deliver: this is not a joke. Let's review everything that has proven not to work, reviewing also - and I conclude - the use of the PNRR, updating the projects to the period we are living. We are not in 2019, we are not in 2020, we are not in 2021: we are in 2022 and everything happened. The invasion of aliens or grasshoppers is missing. [[Applause]] Minister Cingolani, we have faith in you. You are prepared, I know you can listen, you can act together with Parliament, the union is strong. Let us all look in the same direction because - as John Fitzgerald Kennedy said - the future is not a gift, it is a conquest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u23	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u24	Minister, thank you for informing this House of the measures that the Government is about to take to secure our energy system more and more. I want to start with the data, too. In 2001, Italy extracted 15 billion cubic metres of gas from national deposits, representing 15% of total consumption, which was then 71 billion. We imported 20 billion cubic metres from Russia, 28 percent of the total. Twenty years later, in 2021, last year, zero kilometre gas extracted was reduced to 3.3 billion, equivalent to just 4% of total consumption, which in the meantime rose to 76 billion, and last year we imported 29 billion cubic metres from Russia, equivalent to 38 percent of the total. These figures summarize the failure of years of Italian and European energy policy, set at the bottom of everything. No to nuclear was not enough: no to coal, no to drills, no to TAP, no to regasifiers, no even to biomass and geothermal energy. Politics in our country, imbued with environmental ideologism, has ignored the fundamentals. Irregularly, the foreign energy dependence of gas has risen in 20 years, from 85% to 96 percent. Instead of diversifying supplies, we did the opposite by increasing imports of Russian gas. Moreover, in Italy, as in Europe, the advocates of green deal, of push decarbonisation, of Net Zero in 2050, have prevailed, which has contributed with the ETS to raise energy prices. However, supporters of the ecological transition without fossils make no distinction between fuel oil, coal and gas, which is the least polluting of fossils. And so for gas infrastructure for several years, investments, extractions and regasifiers have been blocked. Until a few months ago even in the Senate, by various political forces, gas was considered absolute evil, while it is exercising its strategic role of accompanying the ecological transition. [[Applause]] Yet, who would go to fight the expensive bills someone had feared it in due time: the League, at the Copasir, already in September 2020, asking and obtaining a cognitive survey on the energy system; always the League, during the preparation of the general lines of the PNRR. I quote our comments as reflected in the final report on the PNRR proposal approved here in the Senate in March 2021. In a passage, in relation to the development of renewables, the Government was invited to take into account the following objectives: to reduce the dependence of the country in terms of both energy and raw materials and diversify the sources of supply; to reduce the cost of electricity and gas bills; to strengthen the security and resilience of the country's energy system with regard to plants, networks and strategic reserves. Evidently hairs fell into the void. Now, instead, they all speak of energy autonomy, of diversification of supplies, after the dear energy has fallen like a tsunami that is overwhelming everyone and that risks to frustrate the economic recovery. Compared to last year, we are at crazy prices of electricity and gas, which have increased six times. The high level of energy, which increasingly has structural characteristics, is a phenomenon mainly European, but Italy suffers much more because it pays for the questionable choices I have said and for a too small energy mix. I remember that last year alone the average price of electricity in Italy was 30% higher than in Germany and 15% higher than in France. We acknowledge the government's intervention in the last few months with five measures, allocating more than 17 billion to contain electricity and gas bills until the second quarter of this year. But the measures are not enough; the situation is unsustainable for many companies. Much more needs to be done: a budgetary deviation is now inevitable. Meanwhile, Europe, after the Russian-Ukrainian war, to face the dear energy has updated the toolbox after the half-empty one in October. The Commission presented the RePower EU. Some proposals are appreciable, others do not convince us, but better late than never. Gas and nuclear integration into taxonomy is fine. recognition of the role of gas in the transition is good. We are now no longer talking about freeing Europe from gas, but about freeing it from Russian gas. It is the progress of pragmatism. [[Applause]] Care must be taken to accelerate too much the transition to clean energy with the prevalence of renewables; photovoltaics and wind are not programmable, because they produce only when there are sun and wind, and represent a strong limit to the safety of the energy system, and storage systems are far from being technologically ready, developed and distributed on the territory. I am concerned about the stability of the energy system in Sardinia, where the Capacity market auction was assigned to a 500 megawatt accumulator. The Government's recipes for the gas emergency are positive: both measures to increase short-term security and measures to reduce and eliminate the dependence of imports from Russia, as you indicated earlier. Minister, it contrasts speculation and pursues the withdrawal if there are extra profits of gas, as already done for plants with renewable sources. As a League - always attentive to the issues of dear energy or the security of the energy system - we ask you and the Government to do more: I reiterate the need for a significant budgetary deviation to contain the dear bills. It is not enough to extract more gas from authorized deposits alone. We know that there is the Pitesai with too many constraints, but we cannot continue to give our gas to Croatia or Greece. We need to look for new gas fields at zero kilometres to increase our energy autonomy, including to protect the environment. [[Applause]] , since with the import one we emit many more climatic substances. For the diversification of the supplyings we resume the plan of the EastMed gas pipeline, able to bring to Italy natural gas from Israel. We extend the energy mix to all renewables. It is necessary to develop not only photovoltaic and wind - they have strong limits of programmability - but also geothermal, biomass and especially hydropower [[Applause]] , which needs investment through demonstrations of public interest, and not mere extensions that would for the third time be pallinated by the Constitutional Court. We need more technological autonomy: let us not close to the development of the latest generation of clean and safe nuclear power. We must open a serious, scientific and unprejudiced debate on the energy of the atom and reopen research on fission. If by 2050 we want to seriously combat climate change and reduce CO2 emissions to zero if we want to respond to the growing demand for electrification; if we have to deliver energy in a stable and continuous way and if we want to produce hydrogen at very low emissions to overcome gas, know - ladies and gentlemen - that nuclear technology is the only one that will allow it. Now we must also face the expensive fuels, dear Minister. As if the dear energy were not enough, the crisis in Ukraine is exacerbating the expensive fuels that represent a further energy shock. The critical situation on the international commodity markets has driven the prices of petrol and diesel which, for several days, have exceeded EUR 2.3 per litre. With these unsustainable prices the field of road haulage is put in crisis; it determines the block of numerous productive activities; it will determine an ulterior increase of the prices of detail for many products of wide consumption, creating a heavy damage to the economy of our Country. There is no doubt that these prices are leading to a significant outcast for the state's coffers, estimated this year at over EUR 2 billion. At this point it becomes necessary - and the League has filed a motion to this effect - for the Government to act as done by other European countries, such as France, Ireland, Belgium and Poland, who have deliberated measures to return tax extra-introductions bringing immediate benefits to citizenship. We strongly call here in Parliament and in hundreds of municipal councils to intervene with an urgent, temporary measure for the non-application of excise duty, perhaps according to the so-called mobile excise duty criterion, or by introducing a reduced rate of VAT on fuel. [[Applause]] Minister Cingolani, this action, which does not need economic cover, is necessary for the maintenance of the economic system of the entire country: implement it! Minister, accept these proposals and the full willingness of the League to cooperate. Good job! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u25	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for this information. It was certainly useful, but I was hoping that it would put more emphasis on speculation. Instead, he actually just gave you a hint. It's okay. That's fine with us, but we really need to light a beacon on what's going on today. Colleagues, I admit that, although I had technical knowledge, last night I was a little blind talking about energy tariffs. It was then enlightening an editorial by Professor Cottarelli, appeared on yesterday's "La Stampa" which enlightened me on how the price is created in bills and internationally. Well, in electricity bills, with regard to the protected market, which represents the majority of users in Italy, the price is made thanks to rules, established by law and applied by ARERA; rules that take into account many factors: the cost of production of energy, infrastructure to transport it, human resources. The cost of energy, however, in this calculation is based on the FTT, i.e. the international stock exchange index. And the international quotation is very high; and it is very high for what has happened in recent years. During the pandemic there was plenty of gas supply, but few requests. After the pandemic was over, everyone started producing, everyone needed energy and the listing splashed up. Therefore, the value is very high, so much so that the value of the international quotation has tenfolded, but it is quite different from what happened on the price of the import of the gas, which is a whole other thing. The gas calculation is done by Istat, which, thanks to the Coeweb database, illustrates the fact that the import price of gas is significantly lower than the TTF quotation. And it proves it with a simple calculation: total import divided by imported quantities. The price has risen by 58 percent, but much less than 550 percent of the FTT's surge. This is scandalous, because our bills are still fixed on the TTF. Therefore, measures must be taken, but action must be taken now. Why now? Because the last resolution of the ARERA is of 30 December 2021. The next one will arrive on March 30 and, if we do not intervene by that date, the bills of the next months will be high: as they have been those of the last months, but they will probably be even higher. We need to step in right now and figure out how to do this. ARERA is an independent authority. We cannot intervene, except with the laws and also with the activity of the Government. We find a way to intervene, however, because we cannot go on like this. I asked myself: who cares about gas in Italy? I found some articles. We have a colossus from the state called Eni. Along with others, it imports gas, and not only: it also manages, together with others, the structures that are used to import gas. It also produces gas. You yourself, Minister, said that the cost of producing gas is very low. So, some suspects come to me, but I'm talking about suspects. If I look at ENI's profits, I find that in 2020 it made 1,9 billion profits and in 2021 9,67 billion profits. So, I have a few suspects. Maybe we, as a state, could do something, as ENI is a public shareholder. Really, however, we do everything we can to intervene on the rules that determine the price of the bill. If it makes sense to intervene to repair the damage caused by the increase in the price of bills to the producers who have closed, to those who cannot produce because energy costs too much, then we intervene. Is a deviation necessary? Let's do this. Now, however, that we have realized that the cost of the bill is the reason why the damage is there, we intervene on the cost of the bill, because we cannot go on like this. I have seen that everyone is using this problem as he pleases: there are those who have named the biomasses, those who logically defended the gas, there are also those who have cited the nuclear. Mr. Minister, let's make sure this doesn't happen. Let's keep the ecological transition going. So let us continue to invest in renewables, as you are doing - we appreciate your work on the PNRR - but let us really try to do everything we can to protect the energy communities, on which we in Movimento 5 Stars have invested a lot. We must do everything possible to achieve the ecological transition by bringing as little damage as possible. Therefore, if coal is needed now because we now need energy, it is possible to intervene, but it must be a very limited action over time. We protect renewables. We protect our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u27	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the ecological transition, whom I thank for his willingness. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.31 a.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2505. The rapporteurs, Senators Conzatti, Damiani and Misiani, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u29	Mr President, we will share this speech with the rapporteurs, Mr Misiani and Mr Damiani, and with the minority rapporteur, Mr Calandrini. Mr President, Madam Undersecretary Guerra, ladies and gentlemen, I have thought of making this report in two stages: I will make a brief political presentation and then hand over the written text of the entire report on the measures of the so-called so-called support-b decree-law, the Government's amendment to Decree-Law No 13 of 2022, and then the entire amending part in the Commission. It has been an important piece of work from the point of view of the substance and the speeches that have been made, so it is worth having the detailed written report that I request to be appended to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. CONZACT, rapporteur. I do, however, make some political considerations because the decree-law supports- ter was published in the Official Journal on 27 January, i.e. just under two months ago. Since then, however, the scenario has changed drastically and has become particularly serious. None of the rapporteurs would like to convey the idea of a Parliament not in step with the times, the dramatic war events and the worrying economic scenario to be faced. In view of these considerations, all the work that is being done and clearly stated to Parliament must be explained that support is a first part of a triptych of interventions that the Government and Parliament are putting in place together to reposition Italy in the new geopolitical context and support families, businesses and territorial authorities in this transition not only energy, which is perhaps the most difficult and painful from the Second World War to today. For this reason, the decree supports- ter must be described as a part of a whole; these actions contain more than 2 billion euros for support to families, businesses and territorial authorities, but they refer to a crisis that was about to close with the photograph of last January, i.e. with the pandemic crisis. The decree also rewrites important norms in order to face the first phase of the energy crisis. There are important rules for the first quarter of 2022 and it is proposed to rewrite the rule on the sale of building credits that had created many bad moods throughout the economic system and also in families. With the decree-law under consideration a whole phase of renovation and real estate regeneration is restarted that had been interrupted. The measure is therefore very important. There is already a second pillar, incardinated in the Chamber of Deputies, focused on the energy issue, which contains measures of more than 8 billion euros and which integrates the decree- ter support in support of families and large companies and develops issues that have already been central here, such as the issues of expensive energy and expensive fuel. There are plans for more than 80 billion euros, which we asked for in the Senate and which the Government has transposed in the so-called energy decree, in order to cope and give a first response to the crisis in the field of transport and distribution. The energy decree will be further strengthened and the agenda approved in the Senate will also give many ideas to colleagues. However, it is very clear to all of us from now on that both the decree-b support and that energy, however important, will not be enough to cope with the serious energy and economic crisis also linked to the supply difficulties, the high prices and the consequent inflationary dynamics, creating a decisive scenario problem that can seriously challenge the strong recovery followed by the crisis Covid of 2021. A third decree, which will be very important and which we have also discussed this morning with Mr Cingolani, is already under consideration. It is based on the Versailles Summit and will be considered at the European Council on 24 and 25 March. Measures such as the high energy ceiling, support for households and large energy companies, but also for all companies strongly exposed in terms of liquidity, are under consideration. It is under study and is strongly driven from the political point of view by the Senate and by the majority agenda a rewriting of the Temporary framework. This morning, we heard Mr Cingolani say quite decisive words on the possibility of reducing excise duty on fuels, thanks to the increased VAT revenue (or, unfortunately, due to the increased VAT revenue) due to the increase in energy products. The majority sealed these important rules and this important evolution of scenario and response to the scenario on an agenda, which was born thanks to a transparent and constant dialogue with the Government, which I thank very much for this, because it was not obvious; it really was important. I also thank the MEF, represented by the Undersecretary of War, and I thank the Undersecretary Sartore; they have always shown great competence, but at this stage of conversion something more has been shown, namely the great attention to the issues raised and submitted by Parliament. There has also been the ability to respond to every instance; there has never been an answer, even if negative, and there has never been a lack of explanation of why. I believe that this is particularly important in a mature democracy. The work of all the majority forces and also of the opposition forces was constructive, serious, of quality. The senators have enriched with great awareness the conversion of this decree-law, always seeking mediation. It was not obvious, not even at such a serious time; but the objective of not disuniting the majority prevailed over all other types of consideration. In addition to the content, which has been of quality, this writes a new method by which institutions can be inhabited, especially in a serious moment of crisis such as the present one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u30	I call the rapporteur, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u31	Mr President, I too will be very quick to comment on the measure and I will also try to make some political changes, because I believe that - as co-rapporteur Donatella Conzatti has just said - we are approving a measure which serves - alas - a little different from a month and a half ago. We have a completely different political and economic scenario. This measure was thought politically by this majority and by our government to get out of the pandemic, because we finally saw the light at the end of the tunnel, and therefore to give a further boost to economic activities, precisely to bring them towards the rebound of GDP that we have all highlighted and emphasized in these months. Suddenly we found ourselves with a world on the contrary and we are facing this decree-law today with a different political spirit; so we had to change our approach. I would like to thank Mr Guerra, who is present, and all the Undersecretaries who have spoken during the examination of this measure, as well as all the members of the Budget Commission, including the oppositions, because, indeed, with what little we have at our disposal, I think we have achieved an excellent measure. We were really close (as they say) because we were waiting for resources to be able to implement our proposals; instead there were no or there were few and so we had to change our approach. So much so that then came two more decrees together, which then brought a piece of the decree that concerned energy and moved it to the House. We have remained with the Atecos and other measures, but we have managed to combine them with our political capacity. This was a fundamental and important aspect. I would like to stress a second step. We are still here - I want to remind you - to support a government that is born for the country from the emergency caused by the pandemic and, at this moment, also from the war. The majority, albeit varied, had the ability to sum up. We did this because my parliamentary group also continues and will continue to be the bearer of so many political proposals, which did not find a sharing between all the forces of the majority. We have therefore all had the capacity to sum up and keep these proposals aside. We have always, as the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group, supported, for example, the reintegration into the world of work, for certain sectors, if anything limited in time in this particular period, of vouchers, but it was a divisive theme and we had the ability to put it aside. We will see in the near future, possibly, if there is such a possibility. We have also been supporters in the financial maneuver of a concrete aid to traders and restaurateurs to support the occupation of public land, the TOSAP; to this we have found answers because even in the thousandprorogations there has been, without charge, the extension of authorisations. There were these answers. We insisted so much, all together, and we shared with the oppositions the possibility at such a time of giving support and breath to families and businesses with the reopening of the terms of the scrap-b and we succeeded, because the political will of all of us was precisely to go in this direction: the merit goes to all the majority and the opposition that supported and wanted the Government to include in this measure the measure of reopening the terms for scrap-b. We have not succeeded, but it is a commitment that we have placed on a binding agenda for the Government (this is a novelty of the measure), on another important issue, which is the moratorium on mortgages. This is another problem that is taking hold, especially for companies, at a time of difficulty due to the costs of energy, when a company must decide, when it finds itself with bills to be paid, if it does not turn on the light, no longer turn on the ovens (and therefore be forced to close), or whether to pay the mortgage payments; or one thing or the other, it cannot be done otherwise. Then we must also take action on the important issue of mortgages. Our treasury department must make an extra effort, including with Europe, because today it is important to give more breath and grant a further extension. The strengthening of the company's assets is another important issue. These are all issues, as we said, politicians, that we have managed to put together in order to breathe life into this measure and also to give a political sense and direction, which we then put into practice also with the binding agenda for the Government, which I hope will be taken seriously. We have done a very important job and that is why, left aside the thanks, we hope there will be the possibility of being able, during the examination of the measure in the Chamber of Deputies, to find answers, because we have not been able at this time to make our proposals on the energy situation, as on the issue of the sub-amendments to the Government's amendment concerning the transfer of credit, the superbonus and the possibility, even in this case, of an extension. We have in fact had the blocking of the disposals of the credits and then the reopening: two months in which works of our economic activities have stopped; let us consider now, at the moment when we have unlocked the cession of the credits, if there is the possibility - and the Government can do it directly to the House - to grant an extension to the expiration of 30 June. We monitor the situation and see if the work now resumes in a speedy manner and that 30% of the progress work can be achieved in this way. If this is not possible, then there must also be an extension. I believe that we have done our utmost and that is why I thank the whole Commission, the Government that has intervened and the oppositions, with which we have been confronted day by day, from time to time, also assessing the goodness of their proposals - and there are - within the measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u32	I call the rapporteur, Senator Misiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs for the quality of the debate and for the constructive spirit in which a debate and a vote on the amendments were conducted, which were not simple, because the conditions of departure, as my colleagues have mentioned, were very complicated: an almost symbolic allocation of resources and time, in the final phase, which was objectively tight. Despite these difficult conditions of departure, I believe that the Senate has played its full part in the work of improving the initial text, with the adoption of about 90 amendments, almost all of them legal, but in not a few significant and concrete cases useful to the citizens. I am thinking of the extension of the Ateco codes covered by Article 7, the exemption from the payment of the IMU for immovable property that cannot be used in earthquake zones, the remittance in terms, the scrapping, the balance and removal and many other very specific amendments, but very much awaited by many categories of citizens and businesses. We would have liked, Mr President, to change much more, including Articles 16 and 28, which were also rewritten by the Government by means of a decree-law that was subsequently introduced in support-b; it was not possible, because opinions on sub-amendments have not arrived, except one, and that is a pity. However, an organic agenda, as has been mentioned, has collected many proposals from the majority, also shared by the Opposition Groups, which we deliver to the Government, committing it to important issues, very felt by citizens and businesses, which deserve to be collected and implemented in the coming measures. As Senator Conzatti and Senator Damiani have already said, the measure under consideration arises objectively in a very different phase, prior to the war. The theme at the end of January was to support economic activities penalized by anti-Covid restrictions and to face the first increases in energy prices; the war changed everything and the acceleration induced by events of historical scope that have upset Europe and the world opens a dramatically new phase and must lead us to rethink many of our strategies, many of our choices. In these months the Government has put in place important interventions and many resources to face the increase in energy prices, as Minister Cingolani has remembered today: 16 billion euros to finance so many interventions, many of which contained in the decree-law supports-b, from the cancellation of the system charges, to the strengthening of social bonuses, electricity and gas, to the tax credit for the energy workers, to the mechanism of compensation to two ways for the producers of energy from renewable sources. But since February 24, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has marked a very sharp discontinuity and the energy crisis, which we had to face before, today has taken on a national security value. The objective of supporting families and businesses - which remains and, indeed, is intensified - must go hand in hand with the objectives of the energy independence of Italy and Europe, of our freeing ourselves from natural gas supplies, of the acceleration of the process of decarbonisation and of the development of renewable sources. Decarbonisation, which is fundamental to combating climate change, must be intertwined with the measures to be put in place to deal with the emergency. All this requires a leap in government policies. We spoke about this just this morning, in the debate on Mr Cingolani's communications, and we discussed it during the parliamentary debate on the Decree-Law Support. We hope that the proposals that have been discussed in the Budget Committee and, finally, this morning in this House, will be collected by the Government and translated in a very short time, indeed very short, because the suffering of families and businesses is real, very severe and deserves answers in concrete measures, which are up to the unprecedented emergency that Europe and Italy are called to face. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u34	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u35	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to join in the thanks of the majority rapporteurs to Mr Pesco, who has always used a great deal of attention, in the work of the Budget Committee, to this decree-law. However, let me also say that for the umpteenth time we are discussing a decree-law that will see the intervention of a single Chamber, so we are faced with a de facto monocameralism and yet another vote of confidence. It is a fact that we cannot pickle. The rapporteurs are right when they say that this de facto decree is overcome by events, but I would like to point out that the measure was already insufficient and exceeded even before 27 January and before the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. On this we must be intellectually honest. I will give some figures showing that this decree was already passed when it was issued by the Council of Ministers. It is a text with weak and insufficient measures. Among the speeches I would like to mention, in Article 1, which contains support measures for closed activities (including discotheques), a fund of just EUR 20 million is allocated, slightly increased with the amendments to the decree, which are small if we consider that this sector has ceased its activity for almost two years, reopening with limitations only in the summer months and briefly before the last wave of pandemics, which saw them remain closed until a month ago. The sector calculates losses of 1.2 billion euros and has seen tens and hundreds of companies surrender, closing their activities. These numbers are enough to understand why the resources are completely insufficient. Another area on its knees is tourism, to which Article 4 allocates an increase of EUR 100 million in the National Tourism Fund, which was established under the last budget law. This fund was provided with EUR 280 million, and today it has an additional 100 million (i.e. 380), a budget which has been defined by the category as largely insufficient. In fact, in order for the resources to be at least sufficient, they would have had to be at least doubled. The same applies to the EUR 200 million fund for the relaunch of economic and retail activities, which is also largely insufficient to help a sector with a deficit of EUR 1.7 billion to return to pre-pandemic levels. On these scenarios, which are certainly worrying, there is the shadow of the expensive bills, which have already been mentioned by my fellow rapporteurs, which are at least in conflict with the measures contained in this decree-law. Statistics today tell us that the price of gas has increased by more than 600 per cent compared to 2020, similarly made the price of electricity and without this the measure we examine is limited to granting facilities to energy companies, even these insufficient ones, giving instead limited benefits to many small and medium-sized enterprises that will also suffer from the expensive energy. In our opinion, this decree lacks a structural vision to solve the problem, because we need an imposing intervention from Europe; we need to reason in terms of deviations and this Government is still not convinced, it does not talk about it and President Draghi continues to niche on this aspect. We need a new recovery fund, because if we do not go in this direction, we alone will not be able to solve these problems, because we lack the awareness that we have put in place faulty energy policies, which have been made in the name of extreme environmentalism and a no regardless of any plant. We have brought Italy to depend totally on the foreign countries for its supplies. The approach contained in this decree-law is entirely temporary and aimed at buffering only partially an emergency that, as I said before, exploded before the tensions between Russia and Ukraine and is clearly destined to worsen with the ongoing conflict. Confindustria estimates that from 2019 to 2021 the cost of energy for manufacturing increased from 8 billion in 2019 to 21 in 2021, up to 37 billion in 2022. Faced with these numbers, analysis by the CGIA di Mestre points out that the interventions of this decree-law cover only 6% of all the increases that have occurred, which in the meantime put at risk 500,000 jobs. We risk employment and we need to intervene with structural measures, which this and the previous decree-laws have never done. We must also say something about Article 28, the case of the superbonus, which shows how this Government operates. We all agreed that scams should be restrained, avoided, but obviously, if they were there, there is only one person responsible: this Government, the Government of the Best. Moreover, the Revenue Agency has spoken clearly and has given us certain numbers in relation to the scams. As for the 110 percent building bonus, only 3 percent is related to scams, are other bonuses that have had a big problem; so the excitement that has led to about 14 changes in two years for this incentive appears to have rather fragile bases. The hope is that the new corrections just inserted will be the last correctives to give to Italian families and companies, who want to take advantage of this incentive, at least legal certainty, as should happen in a civil state. Unfortunately, with these interventions in the name of combating fraud, the Government has managed to strike one of the few sectors that showed a genuine rebound, that of building. While GDP increased by 6.5% in 2021, this is due to a third of the construction sector, which in the past year alone marked an increase in output by 24%, 11.8 in employment, 27.7 in hours worked and 16.4 in investment. All of this has been translated into greater revenue for the state's coffers, as have also certified the Budget Offices, with regard to VAT, Irpef, Ires and IRAP. Article 28 was clearly exceeded by the provisions introduced by Decree-Law No 13 of 2022. Finally, the subject of the scrap-b and the balance and excavation: it is true, there has been a further step, there has been an improvement, but it is not enough. It's too little, because nobody says what is involved in scraping-b; it covers until 2017, it keeps out all the periods that preceded and followed the pandemic: 2018, 2019, 2020 (first year of pandemic), 2021 are not covered. The break-up-b is a postponement of the terms of problems that have occurred until 2017; therefore, it is necessary to go further, it needs more courage. It is not enough to measure the postponement of a deadline, among other things a few months. We must intervene on this. It is said that resources are needed, although in the first and second years we knew that there is even a greater revenue. I said stop at the first three years; I don't know what the state's accounts can provide, but I'm not convinced that the c-break-up can't be done because there are no resources. The hope is that the trend can finally be reversed, without waiting further for the end of the emergencies affecting the planet, also because, in addition to the pandemic and war-related emergency, we risk adding a democratic emergency: a possibility that we all want and should avoid. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u37	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to start with a positive note, because I think it is right and proper to do so. I am referring to the fact that, even with a distance of three months from the budget law 2022, approved at the end of December, the Government finally intended to follow up on the commitment it had made with Brothers of Italy when, in the tax decree-law, a demanding agenda was approved, binding on the budget law - I would like to point out and emphasize - to extend the terms of the break-up-b and balance and cancellation. So, three months later, the government finally wanted to respond to this commitment. We note this in a positive way. Therefore, it is a small and important piece, which finally gives an answer to over 500,000 honest Italians, who had been asked to pay, in a month and a half, what they could not evidently pay in almost two years of lockdown. It is regrettable, however, to have to say that, despite the amendment of Brothers of Italy, despite the original agenda of Brothers of Italy, the first party present in this Parliament, the Movimento 5 Stars, has tried to appropriate this in the main national newspaper. It is indeed a fall in style, which should not characterize those who make politics and sit in institutions. As Mr Damiani acknowledged in his report, for which I thank him, that was an amendment by the Brothers of Italy. And I repeat that a party, in addition to the first party present in Parliament, is appropriate in the first national economic newspaper. I'm really sorry. Sorry that ethics and fairness, even in the harshest political confrontation, should belong to each of us. So, a positive note, which, however, is covered by an act of wrongdoing that we did not like. We are sorry, I repeat, and I stress that. Having said that, let us get to the bottom of the real problems. Mr Calandrini, the leader of the Brothers of Italy in the Budget Committee, has been quite clear in denouncing, in fact, how this decree of support has only the name, but certainly not the facts: or, in any case, the facts are very few. We are, in fact, in the midst of a financial storm, due to Article 27, the problem of tax credits. The government already has a thousand problems to solve, we understand: problems related to the pandemic, the political-energy crisis, the international crisis that has aggravated all the other crises. Well, in all this marasma, the government has found a way to put into crisis a path, that of the building bonuses, that was virtuous, that we all thought virtuous. He did it in an inconceivable and absurd way. I repeat: truly inconceivable and absurd. Even the correction measures, then identified in the so-called bill decree, did not actually serve almost anything. I'm used to talking about facts, too. In these hours, I have received confirmations, also from my region, of certain data. I can tell you that the current situation, not in a financially weak and poor territory, but in Trentino, which is a consolidated and structured reality, is as follows: today the main banking realities have exhausted the plafond of use. Banca Popolare di Sondrio, ITAS Assicurazioni, primary Italian insurance competitor, Mediocredito, Banca di credito cooperativee di Verona e Vicenza, coffers rural and other national banks, Unicredit and Gruppo Intesa are in the process of being exhausted. This is the fact that you are failing. You were wrong. In the decree-law supports you have done irreparable damage to the system and in the decree-law bills you have not even been able to repent and to put back on track in a correct way the path that characterized the bonuses and the superbonus What's worse is that whoever gets into this is the whole country. It is the Italian companies: the construction companies, the construction companies, the financial companies that had worked in the sale of the credits, the citizens, who find the yards blocked, who cannot move forward and who, at best, today, thanks to your measures, Mr Undersecretary, are in fact having to sell the credit and, therefore, take much less than what the State invests. More than 110 percent! We are moving towards 60-70 percent when it's okay, because in most cases today they can't even bring home a euro. Then the measure under discussion should be called decree-law support? Someone might object that there have been fraud. Of course there have been, but certainly not in the princely measure that was the superbonus, because in that case there was a very simple norm that actually stood. I am referring to the visa of conformity: professional ope ligis obliged to insurance that, countersigning a practice, guaranteed its existence; in fact, fraud in the superbonus does not even reach 1%. The fraud took place where the government left the doors open, as they say: in the bonus facades, where there was no control. Does the government need the best to predict that, if there is a weight relief, if there are state tax credits, there must be a minimum of control? I therefore wonder why you continued to insist on taking action by restricting the transfer of credits. You did not have to intervene in that area, because the sale of credits had nothing to do with it, as the 110% measure shows. You simply had to understand that the credit must be identified at the origin, must be traced on a financial platform in its passages and must be accompanied by a visa of conformity. With the passages of identification, origin (X and Y particle), traceability of the transfer path (which can therefore be infinite, if moved on the financial platform) and visa of conformity the government would be protected, would protect the Erario, would protect the citizens and would avoid waste. Instead, despite the fact that, with its constructive opposition, you have always said so, you have decided to limit the transfer of credits, which is of no use but to destroy a measure. I therefore appeal to the political forces that are in the government, that sit in this Parliament and that I am convinced feel the same way as I do about this. It is not enough for them to say it the way we do it, because we have no other means than to be able to speak, except sometimes to be expropriated even of our work. You are in the government, you have a duty to change these things! You have a duty to put an end to the destruction of certain measures. Rather, have the courage to say that they are all cancelled, because this would be an act of seriousness: it would not be shared, but it would be an act of seriousness. We cannot destroy a measure by creating barriers to art or even by doing so in origin (I believe that there is bad faith), by not providing for control measures and therefore determining fraud, which were predictable and which, however, today are used to oppose the tax currency, the transfer of tax credits. I repeat, therefore, that there has been bad faith. Starting with the conclusion, to take up the words of my colleague Calandrini and many arguments carried out also by other political forces, the present decree-law supports will not support almost anything or very little. We need a revision of the PNRR, which is no longer current, and we also need another one linked to international crises; we need a budgetary deviation and we need real energy policies. On these issues we would like the Government to be judged; on these issues we would be happy for the Government to be labeled as the Government of the best; we would be happy for the opposition because it would mean that in that case our country and our fellow citizens would have the answers they deserve, but unfortunately today it is not so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u39	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u40	Mr President, about a century ago Mahatma Gandhi reminded us of the need not to wait for the rain to end, but to learn to dance in the rain. I believe that the season we have behind us and in which we are immersed right now is a plastic certification of this need. After two years of dramatic situation, during which our country, together with the whole world, we could say, has been faced with the repercussions and repercussions of a pandemic that has devastatingly marked the course of people's lives, we are here to convert the decree-law to our examination. Over the past two years we had to face the decree-law care Italy, the decree-law relaunch and the various provisions ristori. We are at the third edition of the so-called decree-law supports which, as the rapporteurs said in their opening speech, is to be understood as part of an overall reasoning. At the moment he was born he found himself seeing the context in which he had been conceived changed precisely because what is happening in Ukraine has created very serious repercussions on the global economy and, above all, on certain aspects of life. The measure puts in the field resources that would be important, but that, in the face of the criticality that we are faced with, are absolutely insufficient. These are resources to help the activities most affected by the pandemic or even closed - this was the concept of departure - both with regard to companies and families, especially those related to the cost of energy and gas, but also aimed at helping many sectors that have lived and are experiencing a very complex situation: from the Horeca sector, the textile and fashion sector, tourism, culture, entertainment, sport; I still remember the local authorities, the whole health segment, the institutions on the territory and the transport sector. Faced with the complex framework we are facing, it is clear that the resources provided for in the measure are insufficient. Those who have worked on the decree-law in recent days have realized that in fact, apart from some comprehensive agreements by the Commission, there has been work on the regulatory level to resolve problems, to remove impediments and limitations, giving support and facilitation to certain sectors. I therefore believe that it was a very positive fact to have planned, with the agenda shared with the Government and approved in the Commission, to put in place a strategy that looks forward, aimed above all at tackling the complexity of the energy crisis which has become more acute as a result of the war events that we all know. All this also in order to obtain at European level the authorizations to the extension for the temporary framework, to face the topic of the road haulage, of the support to the family of the victims tied to engagements connected to the Covid, all the job of support absolutely necessary and fundamental to the territorial authorities, to the field of the tourism and the school. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, the measure provided for intervention on the pig sector, which seemed to be the most in crisis at the time. It is clear that what is happening in recent weeks with the explosion, on the one hand, of the costs of energy and, on the other hand, of all the costs related to raw materials (from fertilizers to very simple operations, such as irrigation, which with the costs of agricultural fuel that we are seeing in these hours becomes practically unsustainable) require and will require very strong intervention. I believe that the anticipation of this agenda and the measure that we are waiting for now, namely the specific order of intervention on the problems of agriculture, are an absolutely fundamental response that the whole agricultural world is waiting for. I'm gonna finish. If we focus on this measure, we can only observe just how many, too many questions are still waiting to be answered. If we look at the overall strategy that provides for the provision to the House on energy issues, the measures being prepared by the Government and the next measure to be issued on agricultural issues, I think we are beginning to see an overall strategy, which will then bet above all on the hope that this situation of repetitions to cascade of dramatic events that impact on the activity that we are doing sooner or later has an end, and we will be able to dedicate ourselves again to defining a strategy that looks forward and not only always to the emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the three rapporteurs, the entire Budget Commission and the Government for their excellent work. We have introduced important measures with this conversion, and I would also like to mention the new possibilities for all Italian taxpayers offered by the dismantling-b, balance and deletion. [[Applause]] With this measure, the time limits for paying due instalments have reopened for the whole year 2022. I would also like to draw attention to an amendment approved by the Commission and the Government which finally gives legal dignity to one of the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, namely the wedding sector and private events. [[Applause]] I thank the Government and the rapporteurs for that. I remember that in 2020 this sector had losses of more than 90% of turnover and in 2021, despite the recovery, 65%. Today, in this very short time at my disposal, however, I would like to dedicate a thought to an important subject mentioned by the rapporteur, Senator Damiani, namely the extension of the moratorium on previous loans to Covid. Today, as we speak, the price increases in the energy sector continue with the consequent negative effects on businesses, as well as on households. That is why today I would like to insist, as I have been doing for weeks now, on the extension of the moratorium on pre-Covid loans. We are pleased with the unanimous sharing of all the parliamentary majority that on the agenda to this decree has committed the Government to work with the institutions of Europe to ensure that the temporary framework EU (temporary framework) is extended and strengthened also in order to allow the extension of the moratorium in favour of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, regarding the opening of credit and the granting of loans and loans. But this, Mr. Undersecretary, cannot remain a mere proclamation, so we will ensure that the Government, at the first useful decree and in a very short time, approves this moratorium loans to save thousands - believe me, thousands - of companies from bankruptcy. [[Applause]] It is a result that would reward not so much us senators nor both political parties, but the thousands of Italian companies that are suffering at this time because of the unsustainable increase in costs, especially energy, for the difficulty of supplying raw materials or because their activities have been virtually stationary since December, as is the case with the tourism sector. This moratorium would also be in the hands of the State, which might have to face a strong debt exposure in the absence of it. Thanks to the Government's previous concession of suspensions and delays, the banking system was able to benefit from a large amount of state guarantees. If the moratorium indicated is not extended, the risk, dear Senators and dear Undersecretary, of the emergence of repayment difficulties for debtors who have availed themselves of this State guarantee is concrete. Consequently, creditor banks would be obliged to activate these guarantees granted in their favour, thus making the financial burden on public budgets concrete. Therefore, there are no profiles of potential burdens on public budgets resulting from the extension of moratorium measures. Indeed, the opposite is true because, without such a measure, the widespread activation of the State guarantees granted would result in immediate and difficult to meet public budget burdens. In the light of this continuing state of crisis, exacerbated by the tensions on the costs of raw materials and energy, as I have just mentioned, it becomes necessary to adopt this moratorium in order to extend the period of suspension of refunds at least until 31 December of this year, possibly with retroactive effect from 1 January. We have a duty to prevent the closure of thousands of companies which, crushed by expensive bills, are unable not only to make investments, but also to meet normal current costs. The planned aid, although it represents an appreciable effort by the Government, is still not sufficient to deal with the economic liquidity crisis that is going through many sectors and above all - forgive me if I continue to point out - that of tourism. We therefore need continuity and tenacity to fill the gaps we have mentioned and, dear Secretary, we need to act now. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u43	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator Cant. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u45	Mr President, I understand that there is war and that we must deal primarily with refugees and the devastating consequences on the economy, but I would like to point out that there has already been war here: an epidemic war with the effects that we all know. And there are those who, in this war, fought for us and fell to give us the chance to return to normal. I don't want to think that they are selfish shopkeepers, because it was proposed by the League, to make sure that it is not recognized now, without if and without but, to the families of doctors who died in the first phase of the Covid a proper refreshment. As far as we are concerned, it is not important that we call it the Cant amendment (for me we can also call it the Belzebu amendment), provided that we approve it. In fact, our bill no. 1061 of February 2019 was inspired by the measures taken and adopted to overcome the shortage of doctors and the consequent reduction of waiting lists. No one has made it a matter of primacy; the important thing is to do and do well. In the same way, for the new rules of engagement of retailers, including doctors of general medicine, the so-called DM 71 provides for a series of important measures already proposed in the bill n. 2153 for the reorganization of the emergency-emergency pre-hospital and hospital of March last year. Let the Ministry of Health take due account of the elaborations of the League for the strengthening of territorial care, in turn integrated with the continuity of assistance that we have already proposed in our draft laws. So for refreshment to the families of the deceased doctors, provided it is approved now, without further referrals and delays. This brings us back to the House, despite the contrary opinion in the Commission of Health Ministries and for equal opportunities and family (at least as I have been told). Show that it is not true, in view of the promised confidence, in the amendment fully replacing the measure under discussion. We don't need the cockard, but we didn't think the government needed it either. Call it whatever you want, as long as you do, without further postponement, because just a year ago we agreed that the day of remembrance would be established and that the government would undertake to find the necessary funds to honor them dignifiedly [[Applause]] , in addition to providing measures for the remaining categories of health and social-health workers directly involved and for those who have suffered major permanent impairments to the psychophysical integrity not subject to protection. All this finalizing the necessary resources correctly and congruly, since, as we have had the opportunity to remark in every place, such cannot be considered those allocated to date by the Government, with the appreciable first step made in article 31 of Decree-Law No. 17 of 2022. I would not like a superstructure to be created in order to recognise the measure, which could absorb part of what is allocated, which is already insufficient in its own right, in order to maintain itself. It's what you do that defines what you are; we prove that you do it and - excuse me if I insist - that we do it right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u46	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the support decree comes at another difficult time for our country, in the middle of the fourth wave of Covid, and contains various measures to support our activities and our socio-economic fabric. These include rules on our health system. In particular, an increase of 400 million euros for 2022 the fund established by the tax decree and aimed at the refreshment of Regions and Autonomous Provinces of sanitary expenses related to the emergency Covid, which had an initial allocation of 600 million euros for 2021. We intervene on the compensation for the adverse effects of vaccine, extending, in accordance with the provisions of numerous decisions of the Constitutional Court, compensation to those who, due to vaccination (also optional) anti-Covid, have suffered injuries or infirmities from which a permanent impairment of psychophysical integrity has been derived. There are also rules on the electronic health file and the government of digital health; we hope that it will be a good time to see them finally implemented everywhere. Free access is provided for primary school pupils to rapid antigen tests, as well as in local health companies, even in a pharmacy or affiliated facilities (a rule financed by an additional 19 million). But I don't want to talk any more about what's inside this decree-law; I prefer to talk about what's missing. There is no rule on integrated health care, the so-called corporate welfare policies, aimed at nullifying those clauses which oblige the citizen to apply exclusively to the centres affiliated for the provision of benefits. [[Applause]] However, the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Development raises many concerns about the rejection of amendment 21.0.49. The amending proposal - which I quote - adds Article 21-a, which provides for the nullity of any agreement or clause which, in health insurance contracts for the benefit of the worker concluded between employers and insurance undertakings, obliges workers to avail themselves of professionals and structures affiliated with insurance undertakings. The nullity of the clause does not result in the nullity of the contract. The provisions contained in the null clauses are automatically replaced by provisions enabling the insured worker to avail himself of the benefits of a professional or a structure not affiliated with the insurance undertakings and to receive reimbursement of the consideration paid or part of it. The reimbursement of the consideration paid by the worker to a non-contractual professional or structure may not be less than that provided by the insurance undertaking for the same type of benefit in the case of direct insurance, without prejudice to the ceilings and the contractual limits laid down. The provisions of this Article shall apply to new contracts................................................................................................. The opinion continues: once the insurance market has been informed of the potential negative impact on the parties' freedom of contract and their effects on consumer policy premiums (but the policy is signed by the employer). In particular, the contractual forecast of which nullity is proposed has a calming function of prices, allowing access to the most economically sustainable offers for subscribers. The same contractual forecast would also favour the extension of insurance cover - but we said that everything was still as planned - with an extensive mutual risk and consequent support to the national health system (as if the support to the national health system was something negative instead of positive). The Ministry of Economic Development, in short, would seem to have delivered this opinion by hearing only the insurance bell: no mention of consumer associations or the order of doctors, dental practitioners or trade union names, since they are company policies. [[Applause]] It should also be remembered that price-calming is only for the benefit of the income of insurance companies, which in this way find themselves paying less, because there are fewer benefits to be reimbursed and certainly not for the benefit of dental centres, for example, which provide these services, because in order to make the lowest prices for insurance companies they could be forced to use cheaper materials and less skilled labour, all to the detriment of the citizen, who, when he has a damage to the body of his vehicle, can turn to the coachman of his own confidence, while, when it comes to getting his hands in the mouth to get his teeth or on his own body for other health services, he has to address exclusively the affiliated centers. I begin to conclude, President: it is a pity that such clauses have already been judged vexatory twice in 2017 by the Turin Court as far as RC cars are concerned; we do not understand why the concept should be different when it comes to health protection. [[Applause]] I usually try to be calm and politically correct in my speeches, but in the face of such shameless faction - excuse me - I deeply indignant and I think you have noticed. I have already retabled the amendment to the draft competition law, because the protection of citizens' health comes first and I will not stop until the Ministry of Economic Development understands it and accepts it. I call on all Members who are interested in this issue to support this battle and to sign my amendment or to present other equals.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u48	Thank you, Senator Pirro. Its tones were vibrant and, at the same time, the arguments and words contained, but no less strong for this reason. She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u49	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events of the last three weeks have upset the previous prospects and, consequently, upset the agendas of the governments of the European countries and beyond, accelerating exponentially the changes in the economic situation. Unfortunately, the dynamics that we all know (the increases in energy, fuel and raw materials) lead to a very worrying increase in inflation, attested to 4.3 percent, according to the Istat data of February 2022 - I remember - but they do not take into account the latest developments. The situation we are experiencing means that the Government and Parliament must act rapidly changing the plans already planned and derived from the favourable economic framework of the November Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document, which ended at the end of the year even with a rebound of GDP, above all expectations, to 6.3%. Then there wasn't even the shadow of the war's axe and the vaccination campaign was good for an exit from the state of emergency. It will therefore be crucial to examine the DEF, with the updated picture of the country's economic situation, with respect also to the international context, very quickly, to act with respect to the consequences not only of the pandemic, for which this measure had been conceived, but also of the war. I would remind you that this majority has coaled with the sole objective of getting out of the emergency from Covid-19 and to get the PNRR off the ground; He is now facing what President Draghi called a war economy. Our focus must be mainly on measures to limit inflation, thus supporting the company, to allow a good offer, and citizens, to give them more purchasing power. With the decree-law on support, EUR 2 billion has been made available, essentially providing additional support for sectors particularly affected by the pandemic, allocating resources to reduce energy costs for businesses, but today - it is clear - it is no longer enough. These are good interventions, declined in a series of measures also for the benefit of the local authorities, but I must highlight a criticality of the measure: the intervention on the superbonus. Initially blocking the sale of the credit, in fact, it has blocked everything and not only since the approval in the Council of Ministers of the decree-law, but since its announcement. This is yet another proof that the announcements anticipate events and their consequences. [[Applause]] All this, in fact, has created an earthquake, which has affected citizens, businesses, financial institutions and the whole complex world involved in tax relief. While understanding the Government's will to block the frauds that have occurred thanks to these facilities (I remember the approximately 4 billion more attributable to the bonus facades), it is not possible to block a measure with retroactive effects, which also fall on interventions already started, putting in serious difficulty all, by the citizen, who is forced to pay the works already agreed, to the company, which cannot give credit to the financial institutions. It is true that then the decree-law has been modified, providing for two further transfers of the credit, but it is equally true that in the meantime the system has stopped for at least two months. Now, given the time we have to go through, I think it is important to support businesses and therefore work. I think it is essential, given the delays, to extend the deadline of 30 June immediately, to give certainties, which are the basis of serious planning. [[Applause]] Forza Italia has brought important contents to improve the decree-law. I am thinking, for example - it has already been mentioned, but it is important - of the remissions of the defaulters for economic problems and of the installment of the scrap-b, on balance and excavation, with the necessary extensions. It is clear that this is not a matter of will, but of objective impossibility of paying taxes because of the pandemic. This also protects those who work and create jobs and allows the survival of activities that would otherwise be destined to die. Mr President, I would also like to say that we really need to ensure the work right now. For this reason it would have been appropriate to approve an amendment tabled not only by Forza Italia, but also widely shared at a table of the majority, in the presence of the trade unions, which would have allowed to continue the administration indefinitely for 100,000 workers. Should work be guaranteed indefinitely, even when administered, or should 100,000 workers be left at home? That is the risk which has been widely denounced if we do not intervene immediately. Speaking of work, let me remind you, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group and our leader Anna Maria Bernini, that in three days' time the anniversary of the death of Marco Biagi will be celebrated. [[Applause]] Twenty years have passed since his tragic disappearance, but it is impossible to forget his vision of work and that culture of work so present, which still and especially today remains a source of inspiration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u50	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u51	The measure we are discussing today is dated 27 January and was born to give a response to the activities most affected by the pandemic, to give refreshment to those that have been closed, to contain the diffusion of the Covid and the direct and indirect effects of the increase in prices, especially those related to the main energy sources. The decree-law was published in January, as I said, already lagging behind the containment measures of December. From my point of view, they should have been contextual, as I have already said in a previous speech: when you decide to close an activity, it would probably be correct also to give it immediate refreshment. [[Applause]] This measure could give answers in that context, but today the situation is completely different. Then it was believed - and above all it was hoped - that this was the tail of the pandemic and that, with the arrival of the good season, we would finally see the return to a pseudo-normality, so the measure under consideration at this time is overcome by the further emergency due to the conflict in Ukraine, which has definitely worsened the situation. The high level of energy, the uncertainty of price developments and the crisis in the supply of raw materials require serious assessments, but above all important actions to curb the increase in the cost of energy and gas, which affects households and businesses, as well as the entire supply chain. The cost of raw materials and the increase in inflation put the country's recovery at risk, if they do not stop it. We are aware of steel mills that have been induced to choose to stop production for four weeks, because the costs are unsustainable and clearly the employees have been placed in the integration fund. Other companies are considering this hypothesis and it is clear that we cannot Let's have it. If the economy stops, it risks dying, bearing with it all the consequences and can even jeopardise the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It has been said before that PNRR would need another one and it is clear that a strong injection of liquidity is needed. The decrees that are issued during this period of further emergency find resources within the budget, which, as is easy to understand, are not inexhaustible and it is clear how it is necessary to assume its further deviation; to assess together with Europe to put in place new instruments, such as Eurobond; to work with the European institutions to ensure that the temporary framework of the European Union is extended and strengthened, also in order to allow the extension of the moratorium to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to the opening of credit and the granting of loans and loans. The liquidity is over and, if we don't give these companies refreshment and we don't help them by extending these moratories, they won't make it on their own, so there must be a commitment from the government to achieve this goal. Calming and containing increases in gas and energy must be the priority actions of these months, because not only produce, but also transport the goods with these costs is not sustainable. Families, businesses and local authorities, with related services, are already in difficulty and we cannot rely on their resilience, because this has already been proven by the pandemic. There is a great deal of concern and alarm from the world of agriculture; for the supply of fertilizers and feed and for the increase in energy and petrol and diesel costs (which are also used for transport). Urgent measures must be taken, because this serves to ensure the survival of Made in Italy products. It is a vital sector, which, in addition to increasing costs, faces the problem of decreasing production for drought. On the back of the support measure, we can express our satisfaction with the amendments which the rapporteur, Mr Misiani, mentioned earlier: the IMU exemption for inaccessible dwellings affected by the earthquake, for the enlargement of the Ateco codes, for the reopening of the time-limits for destruction-b and balance and withdrawal. As he said earlier, I would like to point out that many amendments were not burdensome but aimed at simplification. We called for these amending proposals to be examined at least and all of them to have an answer, because sometimes simplification also means saving citizens, because bureaucracy is a cost. Therefore, our work was aimed at doing this, because the resources available to Members of Parliament were few and we are all aware of it, but simplification had to be given more answers to the needs of the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u52	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking about what did not go well in converting this decree-law into law rather than focusing on what we have been able to do and what we had to do above all. I would remind you that already in the 2022 budget law I was talking about the 110% superbonus to indicate a series of interventions in support of energy efficiency and the supply from renewable sources. Today I see that so many colleagues are finally talking about 110% superbonus, recognizing the enormous work done by the Movimento 5 Stars on this extraordinary measure. [[Applause]] In the decree-law that we are about to convert, however, we are doing the exact opposite: we have not really intervened on the issue of supply from renewable sources. Of course, this measure seems just the festival of hypocrisy, I want to say it clearly: in front of a conflict that breaks out near the border of the country, and no one expected it, with the Covid that has already folded us in two from the health, social and economic point of view, obviously the support directed to enterprises, families and citizens had to be given with a decree-law so-called support; but if we all continue to talk about energy efficiency, renewable sources and then, at the first opportunity, we do nothing on this topic, we are really hypocrites. [[Applause]] Attention, I am not referring to this assembly, because at least we reason; in the Commission we compare ourselves, we have prepared a whole series of amendments and I will remind some of them. What I want to remember today is the position of the government represented here by the Undersecretary. This morning, Minister Cingolani told us that the commitment to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 remains valid, but five days ago he stated: This historic moment makes us realize how important it is to reduce waste. Energy saving is an intelligent behavior, respectful of those who are less fortunate than us and a pillar of the ecological transition. The same President of the Draghi Council, with the information to the Chambers of 25 February, in the face of the gas crisis, said: "The most valid response in the long run is to proceed, as we are doing, in the direction of a greater development of renewable sources." On 9 March he focused on the energy crisis and the ecological transition, saying: "essentially the answer is to give now effective and rapid diversification" and "significant incentives have been put in place for the replacement of plants powered by fossil plants to renewable plants, including heat pumps". Incentives to heat pumps, reduction of waste, energy saving, greater development of renewable sources and diversification of supplies: all words, beautiful words. To make an ecological transition, however, it is necessary first of all to achieve a true energy transition of the country, which can only be done if it happens in every community. To do this, it is necessary that the transition invests actively and participates every citizen, which is a phase of the energy transition. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is done in a simple way, with instruments that already exist: the energy community and the 110% superbonus [[Applause]] , something of a unique simplicity. We should have strengthened those instruments in the conversion of this decree-law and instead the government did not make us strengthen them. It is true that it is not the fault of this party or that party: it is the cost, but the citizens must know it. How did we try? We have put on the table a series of amendments, which are also shared across political forces: the first objective of all was to try to eliminate the blocking of the sale of credits by Poste and Cassa depositi e loani; second, the extension of the balance of 30% to June 2022, in order to give the possibility of finishing work on single-family housing by 31 December 2022: on this too, however, nothing; third important issue: to restore the principle of unlimited circulation of credits, since, after the first step, they have become certified and therefore certain. Then there is the question of the revision of the sanctioning regime for the acquittal technicians, who suffer. The problem is that, if they have also committed a superficial error, they are hit up to five years in prison and with fines that are not even provided to punish a road murder. In short, it really seems disconcerting all this, also because subject - attention - to subjective evaluations. I would like to remind you, first of all, that on these battles the Movimento 5 Stars for too long has remained alone. Let us all welcome the help of all of us to carry out these initiatives. This morning, however, Mr Cingolani reminded us of a number of points in his information. In particular, he spoke to us about the diversification of energy sources and the arrival of the RePower EU. On this he told us that he had serious proposals. The first is the price cap at European level, which we all demand, that is to say the price reduction; then, above all, the doubling of the prices for the sale of energy coming from renewable sources compared to those coming from the thermoelectric park, but it is not enough, because we ask that this intervention be accompanied by a real energy recovery fund, by the remodulation of excise duties, by the recalculation of VAT and by the hitting of the extra profits of fuel producers, which at this moment are touching figures to many zeros. We call for an ad hoc fund for companies, families and transporters. I expected Minister Cingolani to tell us today also about the ministerial decree he signed on February 14, 2022, concerning the maximum prices for the matching of bonus prices. Why hasn't it been published in the Official Journal after more than a month? I am not long, but I ask only for a commitment and I appeal to my colleagues for these issues of energy efficiency, in order to intervene in the energy transition and improve production from renewable sources in our country, to see us united. Unanimously, we must make it clear to the government that that is the priority for our policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u54	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u55	Mr President, the work of the opposition with this Government is very easy to do. It would suffice to comment on the measure in question with two paradigms, with two methods of judgment: one is that this is the forty-fourth vote of confidence to which the present Government forces Parliament. I can speak with reasonable constriction, Mr President. Beyond the point we all know of the appeal of the President of the Republic, who has redone his predecessor with respect to the repeated and excessive use of confidence voting, there is another aspect. I am speaking to you exactly, Mr President, as a pro-tempore representative of that group, to say that the other aspect is the most total disinterest in dealing with the measure by colleagues. It is obvious and natural that after 44 votes of confidence, the MEP should stop appealing to the sense of responsibility, to the desire to work and to apply, to the study and preparation of measures, to the support of the debate first in the Commission and then in this House. It stops doing its job, and this is for everyone, of course, particularly those who are Members of Parliament to safeguard the role and decency of the institutions. The second subject would suffice only to mention it; my colleagues Mr Calandrini and Mr De Bertoldi were very clear, but so were those of the other groups, who, like Senator Toffanin, spoke on the affair of the 110% superbonus, which is commented on by themselves. You do damage and are cursedly harmful in the context of the current social, political and economic situation of the country (as you like to call it, but I call it Italy, Nation). It is really difficult to pinpoint the kind of attitude of a government that, intervening on a measure, penalizes a sector that had shown timid signs of recovery. On all the bonus measures that were to be hit, the one on 110% was the last to be dealt with, indeed the only one not to be dealt with, because, if there are evasion, scam and deception, this happens on other bonuses, which instead leave unchanged. You guys play a little spill. I wonder if the representative of the government knows the game of the reverse, a variant of the tressette. You're gonna play trash! Take measures that are contrary to normal common sense. In the face of a debate that has already been conditioned and heavily cut by the vote of confidence and the mistrust of colleagues in relation to what is happening in this House, the representative of the Government does not even take note, because his presence here is useless. He's here for duty of presence, for a duty related to the shorthand report, and I speak for the same duty. This government, compared to what suggests the least parliamentary debate that survives - and I stress the adjective - understands little, late and badly. It would be better if he did not understand at all what we suggest to him in the various measures with amendments, observations and agendas, according to the normal activity of a democracy, with the institutions that work. He understands late and badly; he realizes the existence of the problem, certifies it to us in the measures and then adopts a solution - or, better, thinks to give us one - which is just light years away from being such. It's worse. It's like when, at school interviews, teachers said to my mother: it's nothing, but it's worse, because she would also be able to do. That's the theme. You are worse than the schoolboy who unfortunately doesn't do anything, but would be smart and also capable of doing. Let me give an example by referring to the resources provided to the Regions for the Covid, with a measure that you define as final, as to say: I give you these four points and do not ask me anymore. You pay an additional 400 million on a title for which only Umbria, my Region (which, with its 900,000 inhabitants, has a relative weight), must take 110 million, but - attention - already reduced and discounted. It is not that because of Covid, in addition to the regional health fund, he has spent 110; he has spent many more (about 300 million more) and has to recover 110. You put 400 for all the Italian regions. The Emilia-Romagna of my colleague Errani, who looks at me, must take 700. Then I wonder, representative of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, but who has to put this money there? Who? Who's gonna put this money in there? It is money spent by the Regions, not promised; it is spent, already reported. If you're smarter, you're smarter, but you have to check, you're a member of this. Those who are smarter, who are less clever, are still money reported. How do you say you put 400 million on a permanent basis? How final? Then the regions go into disarray. They have to go into disarray. You are announcing that all the regions of Italy will be in disarray. We are talking in fact about the definitive title and not that, as for all the other things that you come to tell us, you will put back our hands with the next provision, as you have always done. It is not that we were told not to worry, because we are aware of the problem, which will be discussed at the next step. No, President: this time it is written definitively. There's no cat tripe left. Where does this arrogance in institutional relations come from? Where is the sound and correct cooperation between the institutions and the institutions? Where is he? And why are you so sure that you can speak in this wretched country permanently? There's nothing here definitive. There is only your inability and your inconsistency, without any extenuating. Mr President, I would like to speak for another half an hour, because I have taken so many notes on a measure which you of the hypertrophic majority consider insignificant. I only set the example of the Regions. Recognize that you must compensate for the adverse events from vaccines for those who are vaccinated out of the obligation (which, assuming a health treatment, is therefore already compensated for, perhaps). So put money to compensate for adverse events from vaccines. Well, do you know how much you give for the adverse event against the family members of a deceased? Although the total numbers are all to be seen remember, that in Italy we recorded over 150,000 deaths. Do you know how much you give with the measure to our examination, to the relatives of a deceased, one-off? 77,000 euros. Shame, shame, shame. As far as the family of professionals is concerned, I can only endorse what Mrs Cant said. We are still dragging the fact that we recognize fair compensation to the relatives of health care workers who have died because of the State, who did not provide personal protective equipment (DPI), forcing them to work under massacred conditions, let's say because of the epidemic, if we want the general attenuating. We are still fighting over the compensations of the deceased health workers due to the first and second wave of the Covid. If I said shame three times before, I should say it five this time, but I don't; I save time. You have decided to finance the student masks, without making it clear that it is the State that has to provide them. You funded them. I recall that an agenda of Brothers of Italy has passed. Everything that is in fact written in the provision at our examination, President, had been dealt with by Brothers of Italy's amendments to the budget law and to the various previous measures. Copy and evil, because you are not capable. The FFP2 masks must provide them, it is not enough to allocate the money; and look at the need for masks for children aged five to sixteen, because normal FFP2s are not good for their faces; we have dealt with this issue in the Commission and in the Chamber and we have approved an agenda of Brothers of Italy with a favourable opinion of the Government, but we do not see the way and we do not understand what must happen. I shall close my speech, Mr President - and I thank you for your time - with an amendment which has been adopted. After a full intervention of complaints and crampons, it is also right that it closes with a movement of hope, at least one, which derives from an amendment approved, proposed by the undersigned and by Brothers of Italy, which provides a certain amount at the start for families and subjects forced to use technical-medical-sanitary equipment, the so-called devices, which absorb energy and therefore have great costs in the household bill. Well, this amendment has been adopted and we are largely satisfied with it. So I want to end with a message of hope and trust, but that, to be fair, is even worse, because it means that sometimes, when you understand, the serious proposals you also know how to deal with them. Then always do so, because through parliamentary activity - the normal one, not this - the measures can only be improved and Italy can only go better if the institutions work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u56	Senator Zaffini, I didn't interrupt it and normally I didn't comment on colleagues' speeches. However, I would like to acknowledge that this House is very careful and present and that there is still work done in the Commissions. You, of course, have every right and power to comment on it, but in any case, the Presidency has the same right to stress its presence and commitment. Similarly, without taking anything away from the prerogatives of Parliament, which you represent at the moment, I must say that the Government is present today, attentive and takes note. Without removing anything from your right to disagree, I repeat, this is just one of those cases in which the Government is absolutely present, attentive and involved. We also enjoyed the autobiographical touch on his school path, of which I took note instead. Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u57	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary Cecilia Guerra, ladies and gentlemen, when the process of converting this decree-law began - as some previous senators said - it was 27 January and it was far from imagining what would happen and what we are living today. We thought optimistically, even with this further decree-law that we are converting into law, we could give further comfort and support and heal the many economic problems that have arisen because of the pandemic. We would never have thought of further problems and what is unfortunately happening in Ukraine - an evil war that is being fought not far from us and that we live with great sorrow - which has led to repercussions on our country. The conflict first caused the death of so many innocent people, as well as the exodus of so many refugees in search of safe places, as is our country. This situation is still in complete upheaval. The decree-law under discussion would bring additional resources to all the companies that had closed down, to sport and to areas that have been mentioned by other colleagues. Of course, it is not a definitive solution to the many problems; we know that. In every decree we introduce amendments and we know that they will not be the last ones, because we will resort to additional measures, because unfortunately there is never a definitive solution. I believe, however, that this measure has certainly brought and will bring, thanks to the amendments adopted, a little bit more economy, even if it is not decisive. A great deal of work has been done and I really thank the Members who worked in the Commission during the nights too. This is done when a decree-law is converted into law: all the amendments and Members of Parliament are evaluated, giving voice to the demands of the citizens, they try to bring to fulfilment the norm, supplementing and improving it, if possible. Given the limited time available, I would like to refer to three amendments which I am pleased have been accepted by the Government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I am referring in particular to the amendment, to which other colleagues have also contributed with their proposals, which provides for the municipalities of the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto regions that suffered the 2012 earthquake the exemption from the application of the IMU, in analogy to what was done for the earthquake of 2016. Those municipalities are therefore to extend this exemption until the end of the state of emergency, i.e. December 2022. Until 2021, the possibility had been guaranteed for private owners of properties rendered unworkable by the earthquake not to pay the municipal tax. My amendment, first signed by some of my colleagues but also tabled by the PD, has finally brought some relief to the local authorities that have not seen the IMU revenue. Let me now turn to the subjects of my competence, which are the sanitary ones, remembering also that already there have been some insertions in decree in order to face the Covid, as has been said before for the schools, with the supply of masks and antigenic tests free for the students. I am also thinking of Article 20, which has finally set up a compensation fund for the impairments resulting from Covid vaccinations, which - if you remember - for so long we had also pursued in the previous measures, no less so in the budget law. Here we see it written and, therefore, also on this subject there was a acceptance by the Government. It is also true - as Mrs Cant, also a member of the Commission, said - that compensation is still lacking for the families of deceased doctors. We must continue to work on this issue. Here too, however, there has been a signal of attention. There are important things about health, especially digital health and the health file. Finally you can identify a main actor like Agenas, which at this point also becomes an important reference for all the data that will be contained in the electronic health files that the Regions will finally have to complete, but also with an agreement with the Agency for national cybersecurity. We know how many of these data are important to our National Health System because, being so sensitive, they also have an impact in terms of national cybersecurity and require special attention. There is another amendment which I would like to mention, with - again - the adoption and correction of what is not included in the budget law. Amendment 20.20 provides for the possibility for more than 270 social workers employed in the National Health System with precarious relationships to be stabilised. I remember that the activity of these social workers was in the aid of the Special Units of Assistance Continuity (USCA), but also of the childhood neuropsychiatry and consultors. These figures will also be included in the stabilisation provided for in the budget law. The adoption of this amendment will therefore give the right guarantee to these professional figures as well. The last amendment on which I would like to dwell and which I am pleased to have been accepted provides that residents, by making conventions with blood-gathering associations, can help during this activity. There's a lack of staff. Unfortunately, we see the donors who cannot give back. You know how important this gift is to us to those who really need it; I think of the thalassemics - for example - that constantly need transfusions. The adoption of this amendment will give residents the opportunity to cooperate in this important action. Unfortunately, the work to get out of this crisis will still be long, very long, and undersecretary Guerra knows how much work is being done. But, unlike what one might think, the greatest goal - in my opinion - is to have a world without war, to share everything among peoples, peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u59	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will only comment on a few articles. Article 26 (pig sector, swine fever, compensation) allocates 15 million current shares and 35 million capital (or vice versa). It's 50 million, which can be a lot, but not compared to what's about to happen. In my opinion, swine fever is untenable; if it expands to the neighbouring Provinces, to those of Alexandria and Genoa - I have some news from those parts - it will be billions. The government prepares billions in some way, coins, because there will be compensation not only for farmers, but an entire sector (the processing industry and so on). Article 29 is on the price review. We've talked about it so many times: it's a boulder in front of us, because everything that can be allocated (or the ability to use auctions) and the amounts available are too small compared to what would be necessary when there is an increase of more than 8% (even 15-20 percent), especially for certain factors. Perhaps it would be better to shift the validity of contracts and works and suspend a little to calm prices. I particularly care about one issue, that of municipal secretaries, in Article 13, for which I had prepared an amendment. I had suggested that municipal secretaries who have been in residence since 1 January, 1 June or 1 October 2021 or are about to be placed in retirement by 30 June or 31 December 2022 may request to be called back into service or continue the service for a period of 12 months after the entry into force of this provision. It is written in an Italian that can also be understood by the average Italian; I am proponents of laws that do not lend themselves to litigation, written in such a way that they can be understood and implemented. The Ministry has drafted an amendment, which has been approved forcefully by the Commission and which is a bit more complicated - but perhaps the nature of these things is so - in which it is said that, either because of or because of the PNRR, an employment of 120 per cent is allowed than the number of secretaries leaving the service. The category of municipal and provincial secretaries is very important for the institutions, because they guarantee the legality and are in support of the administrations. There is a class of both registry and competition, which is about to retire or which has already gone there, so there is an absolute void. I know of situations - as I think you know them too, ladies and gentlemen - where there are secretaries in charge for ten, twelve or fifteen municipalities and, for small ones, it is very difficult. An amendment suggested by the Ministry of the Interior provides that the course-competition lasts four months and is followed by a practical internship of four months. I think it's very good, maybe even a little more; that's a good idea. It is also expected that a 50% share of the posts will be reserved for employees of public administrations who are eligible; it seems to me that it is more than that, but that is also good. In any case, the question of municipal secretaries is very important; I would propose simple solutions to ensure continuity of service. There is no cost in what I asked, because the secretaries who were late to go to quiescence would not receive the pension and would be paid by the local agency. Many people have spoken on the issue of the famous Article 28, and I will also dwell on it for a moment. The deadline of 36 for what happened - it has to be said in advance - must be moved, also to give tranquility to the sector. tranquility is also a question of price tranquility, because it calms speculation a little bit. I refer to Decree-Law No. 13, so-called anti-fraud, which has been transposed within the framework decree: Article 1, paragraph 2, provides the unique identification code before the transfer of the credits, for which I have had assurances from his colleague Sartore in the Commission: the mechanism by Sogei is in motion, because from May 1st the code is needed, otherwise the practices are sanding. Then there is the question - as the other colleague said - of false or incomplete insurances involving very high fines. I believe that from the bonus to 110% we must provide for a single rule, a soft exit with a certain maturity that gives the possibility to finish the works and try to reason, if possible, and subvert a little the principle of the State Accounting for which the quota to be financed is equalized by the major receipts that determine more investments, while they end up in the state cauldron and are not accounted for with this purpose. Finally, I hope that the maxi amendment incorporates the 90 amendments approved by the Commission. I would also point out that trust is a serious matter for me, as an advertisement from years ago said. It is therefore necessary to find, gradually, another method. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u60	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u61	Mr President, Senators, I will not dwell on the technical aspects of the measure, because they have been well expressed by my previous colleagues, who have touched on very important articles of the measure that we are going to vote on on. This is certainly one of the few times when we have had a measure that has no resources, as the rapporteur has said in his statement. In fact, given the different passages, we had to try to legislate on a structure that had a small economic content: 30 million. This seems, at first glance, a situation that can give a poor fruit, sour, that has no meaning. Instead, in my opinion, it is when there is no money or the money is few that you have to put your whole soul and brain in order to try to get something good out. As long as there is money, the amendments are being prepared, 50 million here, 10 million there, 40 there; it is content and not content, but it is certainly much more evident the media and political emphasis than to make an amendment, or to strive to produce an amendment without economic support, which perhaps opens up a range of possibilities and manages to solve a series of situations completely blocked. I have not honestly tabled an amendment to this measure, but I have followed other colleagues' amendments. I committed myself because I liked it, because it was a very cerebral measure. If many of those amendments had been taken into account in a very precise way, they would certainly have raised and helped many still unresolved situations. Let me give you an example: Senator Cant spoke about the medical issue, but hers was certainly a costly amendment, so she could not go. But there was also the amendment by Senator Alessandrini, which referred to a series of municipalities that have economic difficulties in closing a budget and had to find a legal formulation to get out of a impasse. Among other things, these are municipalities which today, in a further critical situation, because we have almost the war at home and have made themselves available to help refugees, as well as providing essential services, will find themselves in a state of uncertainty. There was no money, but we definitely had to put our heads in more depth. I would like to take the example of Mr Fregolent, who was already well and who does not know why, although there was money and the Ministry's green light, he was lost. Then I come back to repeat something I have already said before. We are in a state of economic, health, financial and social emergency. We should also be in a state of emergency and give up - and I repeat, give up - for a moment the banks, not on an institutional level, go a little further and try to fix all those situations in which, if for us two months they are nothing, for those outside instead there are many. I conclude my speech by addressing my very nice colleague Zaffini of Brothers of Italy, who has shocked a whole series of very negative situations about how we are not able to make of necessity virtue. Forgive me, however, colleague, apart from the empty Chamber, which is not good and is not just about you, but you who are the expression of the minority should have had the whole claque behind to applaud you strongly for what you have said, because that is the only way it has meant what you say in relation to what your party supports outside and within this Chamber. As for the others, I cannot say otherwise, because indeed such a measure, which has no economic support, but which has the strength to give out, should have seen the House full, the support of the rapporteurs and the Commission, which has tried in every way to do what it could, because those who... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] They must understand that ours is not a job for high-end wage earners: we are people who try, at least as far as I am concerned, to solve in all problematic ways in emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u63	Mr President, in recent circumstances, the decree on support seems to be insufficient to meet the needs of the country. The decree-law was published in January in an objectively different situation than the current one and it was thought to be the tail of the emergency by Covid-19. The demands have now changed and aggravated by some international political and economic complications, which - alas - we know. I am referring to the war in Ukraine and its consequences on the world economy, dear energy, uncertainties about price developments and the crisis in the supply of raw materials. There is therefore an urgent need for more decisive action in some areas, such as the primary sector, the distribution sector and energy sectors, and this is despite the fact that we have managed to take action on scrapping-b, preventing thousands of taxpayers and businesses from being strangled by taxation which - let us be clear - must help citizens and not hinder them. I also respond to my friend and colleague De Bertoldi of Brothers of Italy, who has raised a controversy that does not interest taxpayers so much about paternity amendment. In fact, we have always been on the same side of the barricade on this issue, even with the other groups, and that is on the side of those who defend taxpayers who are behind with payments in this case. [[Applause]] With regard to the Movimento 5 Star Group - as well explained by the main economic newspaper - we started in January to investigate the effects of the missed payments in terms of scrapping-b. And from that question it emerged that 43% of taxpayers had failed to pay the December instalments, so the amendment was more appropriate than ever and I also thank my colleagues in the Budget Commission who strongly wanted it. The combined effect of a general increase in the cost of energy, in the supply of raw materials and in inflation makes us part of an emergency when we are hopefully leaving another. Those who are suffering most are small and medium-sized enterprises in the transport sector, to which it is urgent to give an immediate response at this time. The government, therefore, must be committed to this. Compared with what Mr Cingolani said this morning, I would like to highlight a number of positive aspects. First of all, I would like to highlight the importance of the move on mobile excise duty. To believe that the energy problem is an issue isolated from other components of society is wrong, given the regressive nature of excise duties. It is clear that the term "regressive" has also been used with ease by our President-in-Office for measures such as cashback, even harmless from this point of view - if we want - while I have not heard the term "regressive" approached the term "taxi." Excise duty is one of the most unpathetic taxes from this point of view and deflagrate when we face increases in fuel costs such as what we are experiencing these days and risks creating dramatic situations for our companies. The Ministry of Economic Development itself has confirmed that the price of fuels is 55 to 57 percent of an endless list of excise duties and VAT. For this reason, a remodulation of taxation, also by virtue of the higher amount of VAT, is of fundamental importance, if only for a matter of social justice: not only citizens can pay for the crisis. Another noteworthy element is certainly the decoupling of the price of gas from the cost of electricity, and on this we must be clear: renewables agree. Today another interesting point has been given by Minister Cingolani: we have to release the construction of the price of electricity from thermoelectric, which is the one more related to the cost of gas, from energy from renewable sources, because we have now reached a point in history - fortunately - where renewable energy costs less than fossil energy, for a simple question of positive externality, effects on the environment and effects on citizens' portfolios. Today it is even more important that this measure is taken in a very short time, right from the start, to enjoy the natural incentives for renewables. I also want to remember, however, that for number of photovoltaic installations we are second in Europe, behind Germany, but we have less than half of its installed (22 gigawatts Italy versus 55 gigawatts in Germany). This is a huge contradiction, since we are in fact a solar power greater than many countries and, in this case, Germany. At the level of installation per capita, however, we are in tenth place in Europe. The question, then, is why the superbonus has been so hindered. The Minister spoke of the RePower EU package, but the pillars of these measures are not energy saving, diversification of energy sources, the independence that has been mentioned. What other source can pass if not from renewables and are not these the fundamental reasons behind the superbonus itself? I am genuinely surprised at the annoyance of making individual citizens autonomous. In Europe, they are following us and have understood that one of the main ways forward is the independence of individuals, and thus self-production and self-sufficiency in energy. It is clear that it does not solve the problem of energy supply, but it is certain that it reduces demand for energy. And you don't need to be economists to know that, at the intersection of supply and demand, when demand is reduced, the price is reduced. It's a banality, but it's the basis of the economy. [[Applause]] The ENEA data shows us what the real impact of the superbonus has been, beyond all the political narratives of these days. In January, the operations financed by the superbonus allowed an electricity saving of more than 3 million megawatts: this is the annual energy needs of 1.1 million households. Another important point highlighted by the Minister - I stress - is the liberalisation of renewable installations up to 200 kilowatts: a measure that must be structurally accompanied by an increase in deductions on photovoltaic panels and storage systems. Citizens who are often smarter than those who govern them have understood on their own that it is best to become more autonomous at this time than those who control energy. The cost of energy is definitely out of scale: it is no longer justifiable to wait, evaluations are out of time and citizens cannot wait any longer. In conclusion, it is essential that the Government intervenes against speculative phenomena for all those chains on their knees; otherwise the real risk is that our country will stop. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Calandrini, Mr Zaffini and Mr De Bertoldi have already said what the Brothers of Italy think of this measure, but let me say - having listened carefully to the speeches of colleagues from the other majority groups - that the measure does not satisfy anyone. The decree-law at our examination should have found and given other answers to the areas of life of our nation, and instead the government lacks courage. The truth is that, in order to put in place the resources necessary to give real and effective answers, economic commitments of another kind, or at least political choices that go in the opposite direction to what the Government has chosen, should be assumed: a new budgetary deviation. We say this with the credibility of those who, while being a force of opposition, have shown that they are able to vote for this necessity in other times and moments of the pandemic. We do not want to help the Government - it never convinces us, from the first moment - but we never back down when we have to help Italy and the Italians. I wonder what is the point of an amendment by the majority when one is aware - already from the principle - that there is no possibility of intervention, even on this measure. More than 2,300 amendments certify from the outset that we are in the presence of an absolutely insufficient decree-law. Then, through the perverse - I say - system of warnings, of confrontation monco also in the Commission - let us be honest - this activity serves only to mock categories and subjects who, on the other hand, legitimately expect aid from the State. These are people who in the pandemic have continued to do their duty with serious difficulties, and little changes if the provision is called refreshments or support, because you have not changed the philosophy of intervention. The minutes I have left I want to dedicate to an issue that, as a party, we have tried to point out to you, in the importance it takes, trying to stay at least on the emergency, if it is not possible to stand on an overall and strategic vision, which is missing. In fourteen days, on March 31, more than 55,000 people, who have sent the Italian school forward, will see their contract expire. There are fifteen days left and still those people, who are serving the state, do not know if their duties will be extended. We fought with an amendment. We had hope that this problem could be resolved, so that the Italian school could move forward. There are no resources, after so much hope had been given and it was said that other political forces had also tabled the same amendment. We tell the government we still want to believe it. I say this to the Undersecretary Guerra, to whom I must acknowledge, with intellectual honesty, that on other occasions he has given testimony of sensitivity to the problems of the school. We are strict, but we are also able to be honest intellectually. I would like to refer specifically to the question which has allowed, with our amendment, a shield, civil, criminal and administrative, for school leaders. An effort must be made to extend this staff to June 2022. You still don't promise things you won't do or confused solutions, kicking the ball forward and telling them you'll find resources in the DEF, to extend by a month until April 30th... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We give answers to those 55,000 people and their families, people who have gone to work even 1,000 miles away. Instead of dissipating billions in unproductive income of citizenship and subsidies, let us make sure that those who have worked, those who work and those who want to continue working in the interest of the State have their own answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u66	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u67	Mr President, it seems to me that the rapporteurs and the rapporteur have told this House that the so-called support measure has been approved by 90 amendments in the Commission. I believe that this is the most important testimony of the work that has been done in the Commission. We also thank the rapporteurs for what they have told this House, despite the difficulties. Of these 90 amendments, we are particularly pleased with the adoption of one in Article 21 on the electronic health file. A proposal has been approved, at my first signature, that any health services provided by public, private accredited and private authorised operators should be included within five days in the electronic health file. I also address the citizens and the citizens in this House. This is a real revolution and it is the construction of today's health and health care of the future. The electronic health file is our health identity card, shared with healthcare professionals to ensure an effective and efficient service. Each of us can follow our own path of health and have an orderly and up-to-date access. Of course, we do not start from scratch on the electronic health file. There are many regions and, therefore, here we also discount regional differences. There are 21 different health files, but with this article 21 in general, you really set the foundations of digital health and above all you will work with a common language of data. Here is the real revolution. With the emission of data also by health professionals operating in the private sector, the patient profile is further improved and enriched. This will allow doctors and all healthcare professionals to have in real time a complete updated clinical picture, that is our health history, with reports of pathologies, dysfunctions, drug therapies, previous surgeries, radiotherapy, physioterapies, everything. In perspective I believe that it is of great value that this rule has been approved within the third decree-law supports, because after the epidemic we have the moral, civic and social duty to fix health. I cite some issues of perspective: to be able to avoid diagnostic and therapeutic fragmentation; to reduce the weight resulting from non-attachment to therapeutic plans, especially the elderly; to validate and implement prevention and thus reduce risk factors with correct lifestyles; to avoid repetitions of recent investigations; to control health expenditure; to verify and constant knowledge of any intolerances and allergies to medicines, which will all be reported in the electronic health file; to the uniqueness of the patient with respect to public and private health care; to improve the digital skills fundamental to the health transition, in the panorama of digital communication for the use and consumption of citizenship, in the perspective of an increasingly modern and innovative digitalized health; to the continuous verification, through the electronic health file, of the therapeutic compliance of the patient, monitoring fundamental parameters, thus reducing also the costs of care of the patient, minimizing the inconveniences due to displacements on the territory and offering a quality of life and care significantly better. With this enlargement of the obligation to include and update the electronic health file, we could, finally, give a great help to home telemonitoring of patients, which would reduce days of hospitalization, with a saving of health costs, also increasing the survival rate. In short, the electronic health file is part of the project of an effective, modern and equal health care for all. I do not add what Senator Boldrini has already said about the compensation measures for the adverse effects of the vaccine contained in this measure, nor about the measure - thanks to her amendment - for the stabilisation of social workers. Yesterday was World Social Service Day and, therefore, one thought goes to what social workers have done and do. I'd just like to make a few lines in perspective. This morning we discussed the cost of gas, but there is also an increase in the cost of bread and pasta, which is also unjustified, like that of gas, because much of the wheat is Italian. Instead, we should be concerned and therefore support the sunflower oil and maize sector, produced in Russia and Ukraine, of which we will certainly have a shortage. I remember that sunflower oil contains unsaturated fats, which are important to our health, and we should think about this in the next steps. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u68	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u69	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, never, as in this parliamentary term - and I say this from experience - has it always legislated in an emergency climate. It has happened several times that decree-laws approved by the Council of Ministers have arrived at the examination of the Assembly, in the Senate or in the Chamber, when perhaps the situation to which reference was made was already overcome by successive events. The measure in question does not escape this consideration, but I think it is exalted. As Mr Boldrini and many others rightly said, this measure, which was born at a certain stage, served to give an immediate response to the new pandemic wave, but then we found ourselves with equally disastrous events. The invasion of Ukraine by Putin's Russia has changed the world's balances and also the economic balances of this country. It is therefore quite clear that the decree-law under consideration, which also contains very important and positive provisions, also in the direction of high energy and in any case of a complicated economic situation, needs something else; in fact, one agenda of the majority calls for additional resources to be found for a further measure which is more topical. Yet in this government we have done good things. For example, the issue of credit transfers has been corrected here, which had put all ecobonus operators in a bit of difficulty. We have tried to give certainty about times, methods and ways. We did not manage, as I said in the preamble, to deal with the so-called expensive building materials. We'll have to go back to the so-called bill decree where something is already present. We have also put something into the provision on our examination. In the procurement code, approved last week, we put something more concrete, but it will bear fruit in a year's time, too long. It is clear that we will have to return to this issue and I believe that there is convergence of government, rapporteurs and parliamentarians on this issue. We must not ignore a number of other measures that we have introduced. Mrs Parente spoke of more than 80 amendments adopted. I will return to this point in the conclusions. We then introduced some important and significant measures. I am particularly concerned with the matter of competence and the issues we have dealt with more directly with my colleagues in my Commission. For example, we have made a number of changes to the Commission's special environmental impact assessment-strategic environmental assessment (VIA-VAS) framework for the projects of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2030 (PNIEC) and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NPNR), chaired by President Atelli, as well as the General Commission VIA-VAS. I have to say that so far there is a clear reversal of the march in the times when these Commissions give their opinions; which must be emphasized because in many other cases it was exactly the neck of the funnel. We have introduced measures that strengthen it. We also asked for further reinforcement, but we will come back in other cases. Together with almost all the groups, we have tabled and adopted an amendment on local public transport, which is also very important. In other words, we give the possibility to extend the existing contracts until 2026, thus guaranteeing a time horizon for local public transport management companies, provided that they invest in self-financing of their own resources which, together with those of the PNRR, can produce a multiplying effect of great importance from here to 2026. Another important amendment concerns the measures to support Anas and the railway undertakings, Ferrovie dello Stato, both towards the enterprises that transport goods, but also increasing some appropriations in favor of Anas to take into account the decrease of revenues due in recent years to the reduced circulation. With regard to other aspects, as a man in the South, I would like to stress the importance of an amendment by my colleague, Mr Gallone, to which I am naturally grateful, which the Democratic Party has strongly supported in the Commission, starting with my colleague, Mr Missa, who has signed it. This amendment attributes 150 million euros to the Municipality of Taranto for the organization of the Mediterranean Games. This is a very important measure. We tried with an amendment tabled by Senator Stefano during the budget law, but we did not succeed. Mr President, last but not least, I would like to point out an amendment in favour of doctors working on merchant or cruise ships. I should like to conclude with what I said at the beginning: it seems to me to be a very good sign that in this case too, as in the measure adopted last week, there are a large number of amendments adopted in the Commission. This, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the virtuous way of working in Parliament. The Council of Ministers plays its role, we have the task of intervening on acts, improving them, of course, without distorting them, but by making our contribution of ideas, intelligence, competence and work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u70	President. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, some of my colleagues in the previous speeches have asked themselves this question: where is the support in this decree-law? The support is not there; there is only a few breaths of air for some sector completely on its knees. Some other colleagues said: we worked with the government. But who worked with the government? Once again, even in this measure, Parliament has been completely exonerated. I do not repeat what is happening in these weeks; at geopolitical level we have said this and have all said it a little. But what is happening in agriculture, which is a matter for my Commission, shows us how many wrong choices have been made in recent years in agricultural policy, both national and European, and we are now paying for the consequences. We are in fact at the mercy of uncontrolled speculation on the markets, which, on the one hand, led to the exponential rise in prices and, on the other hand, led to an unprecedented shortage of raw materials. Small and medium-sized enterprises in the fisheries and agriculture sector are no longer able to cope with the cost of gas oil and the purchase of raw materials, if only to organize the next production campaign. At this time, companies need liquidity. The liquidity of small and medium-sized farms, both agricultural and fish, could have been ensured by an amendment I tabled to this measure; an amendment I tabled, but strongly requested by many desperate small and medium-sized enterprises that have organized themselves in a spontaneous national coordination (Copoi) of which I refer. This amendment to Article 3 - which we find in the report of the amendments - called not for a bonus or a gift, but simply for a ten-year loan, 100% guaranteed by Ismea, with twenty-four months of pre-depreciation, all in relation to the previous year's turnover, so that companies could apply for small loans with a ceiling of EUR 30,000: the minimum in order to guarantee the next production year. Of course, this amendment has remained on the file of the amendments that have been pointed out. There are those who say that there is no money, but in such a situation we could also think of a budgetary deviation. Well, so many institutional actors on several sides tear their clothes to defend small and medium-sized farms and fish, but then these same players cooperate and coordinate to devote large sums of money to magical infrastructures, built with art and ad hoc in all these years, in whose meanders everything is lost: money, projects and everything else. All this without farmers getting at least the cost of production; not even that we have guaranteed in recent years, so much so that certain supply chains have been abandoned - I am talking about the grain and maize supply chain - because farmers have not been guaranteed the cost of production and we are now in check with so many situations and chains. So once again I had to tell the world of small farms and fishermen, who stopped their fishing boats because they can't guarantee diesel, that there is no money. Of course the answer they give me is this: dear Senator, when the money wants to get them out to direct them where they want, the money is there and it goes out. Help me answer this arch. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u72	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteurs for the fruitful work we have done together in the Budget Commission over the past few days until night. Allow me, however, also some points of observation that perhaps do not go in the address to express only a praise, since we are not here to self-applause, but to try to highlight the criticalities. Evidently the decree-law under consideration was born in an unsuspecting time before the war, and it did not in itself bring great benefits to the quality of life of citizens. Certainly with the outbreak of war its effects have become laughable. I want to say this quite frankly: I have the feeling that, at this point, Parliament's and the Government's response is very slow compared to the problems that we experience every day outside this building. I guess each one of us goes to the territories and meets people, families and businesses. There's not one that expresses satisfaction with what's being done in here. We have to tell ourselves and ask ourselves why, since we are working a lot here and spending a lot of money. I say one thing very clearly and linking myself to what some previous senators have said. If I have to recall the work of the Commission, frankly some of its dynamics have appeared laughable or distant from reality, the real and real one that is outside this Palace. To say no simply because the technical report has not come is ridiculous and out of the world and means not to understand what is happening out of here. To say no simply because you did not have time to make an inquiry is unacceptable. We must make this clear: there is a separation of powers in this country and Parliament must have its own dignity. If Parliament is unable to enforce its dignity, it is not the Government's fault. That must be clear to all of us. We're not here for anyone. If we are unable to defend the battles that, from the outside, we carry inside the Palace and to the Government we are completely useless. It is not acceptable for there to be a technical report that has not been received. They say we defend companies. What companies? The ones with sales above 50 million euros? Those companies are not the backbone of the country. On several occasions we have tabled amendments to strengthen the assets of medium-sized enterprises and we have been told several times that the investigation has not been completed. This is unacceptable. Then we come out of here and make statements for the defense of businesses and families, thus putting our conscience in place. I ask the government and especially Parliament to be consistent when we issue the warnings, because otherwise we risk doing the scenery to sprinkle our head with ashes. We have the decree on capitalization in favor of companies and there is money at Invitalia. For three months, the government has been asked to implement the decree. The extension was granted, but not to companies with turnover of one to 50 million, but only to companies over 50 million. How many companies in Italy have sales above 50 million? The other issue I put in the Commission concerns health facilities. All Regional Health Councillors have asked private and public companies to build emergency buildings. After so many cuts and closures of many hospitals we realized that they are not enough. In Rome, San Carlo di Nancy and San Camillo built structures, but on March 31 the emergency expires. What happens to these structures? The first official of the building office of any municipality who gets up and goes to make an inspection is forced to ask for the immediate removal of the structure. Even in this case there was no possibility of intervening to give them certainty and, as for all the beautiful things that happen in this country, it is always necessary to create uncertainty, because in the uncertainty comes out the emergency measure. Perhaps sometimes we could prevent the emergency and it would be much easier than it appears. I hope that the government will take serious and concrete measures in the coming days, because we do not realize that the gas bill has already arrived and that our fellow citizens cannot wait for the technical report to be there to have a minimum of support from this Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u74	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u75	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all the members of the Government who followed the measure, in particular the undersecretary, Mr Sartore, who has always been present, making the trip with the MEF, and the rapporteurs. As has already been said by others, it seems a bit anachronistic to work on a decree-law passed in fact by events. But in these two years there has been an acceleration of events that have upset the normal life pattern of households, businesses, the state and municipalities. We must therefore go quickly and try to act with timely and timely measures to prevent the system from jumping. We have seen that inflation has begun to grow, after years of constant levels; the risk is that inflation is also added to stagnation, which is the worst of economic conditions. But we come to what is contained in the decree-law support- ter and above all to the amendments that have improved the measure. First of all, there has been a follow-up to what has already been done in the budget law for the recruitment of personnel, where it was planned, in the police forces and in other categories, with an amendment that provides for the sliding of the rankings of the students police officers. In many parts there is a demand to increase the number and presence of the police forces, for the safety of the cities, for the emergency Covid, for the entry of Ukrainian refugees and for a thousand other things; obviously these people must also be hired. The adoption of a number of amendments concerning the tourism sector is also good. We remember that tourism represents our oil, because it is really our wealth. Therefore, the non-refundable appropriations for tourist buses and tour guides, as well as the exemption from social security contributions for tour operators and travel agencies, are good. This is one of the topics on which the League has always insisted, because, in the absence of intervention, this would have caused the default of many artisans and traders (they speak of 600,000 people). So it's an absolutely positive thing. There has also been an extension of the deadlines for approving the 2021 consolidated financial statements and financial statements for the reporting of the Regional Health Service (aid to the Regions). There was then, during the discussion, an episode concerning the administration contracts. Although there were two amendments by Forza Italia and the League on this very subject, which had received the favourable opinion both from the competent Ministry of Labour and from the MEF, there was a proposal for an extension of only three months, when the amendments provided for the abolition of the deadline of 30 September. This proposal was voted on by the whole Commission, with the exception of the League Group, which voted against. We believe that at this time of major labour crisis we must defend work and not facilitate redundancies. [[Applause]] I remember that 110,000 jobs are at risk and recently 450 temporary jobs were fired by Poste Italiane. This is what has unfortunately happened and is incomprehensible, but I would like to remind you briefly of what has not been done, Mr President: there was an amendment by Mr Arrigoni on the qualification of companies, a non-payable and very important amendment that asked us all the categories of the construction sector, because it would have allowed us to exclude all those companies that were born as mushrooms without staff, that grey area in which the scam aspect could also reside. This amendment, like other proposals, has not been completed and it has been a huge mistake, because everyone was waiting for it and because it would reward serious entrepreneurs who with difficulty continue to stand and give work for real. There were also other amendments, such as that of Mr Briziarielli, which included measures for the bodies responsible for environmental surveillance and control, or that of Senator Cant on the free professional activity of health workers. It is not possible that with the work so important that it has been done, despite all the time limits, dictated by the haste or by the situation - as I said before - anachronistic, it is not possible to complete the process of some absolutely good and positive proposals, because they do not physically arrive at the last second, the amendments. We will have to take an in-depth look at this. It's not acceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u77	Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and fellow senators, my speech today will focus on two points: the satisfaction with the passage of an amendment which I consider important in order to help the municipalities and the disappointment with the way in which the amending work of this Decree-Law has gone. Of course, there are many positive things in the decree, others that we would have liked to correct, others that we have corrected and others that we have introduced, but on one thing we can all agree and it is that this decree is now overcome by the current situations, the war in Ukraine, and by the complexities exacerbated by the conflict - exacerbated because there were already before - that impact on the Italians. One of them is the expensive bill, which is dealt with but is not settled in this decree and will need further interventions that have already been announced. The intervention of this decree, with which 1.7 billion are allocated for the dear bills, follows the ulterior 3.8 billion allocated in budget law, but we know that it will only serve to buffer the existing situation and that it will have to intervene in a structural and definitive way in order to resolve the problem of the energy dependence of Italy from the foreign supplyings. Just this morning, Minister Cingolani has come to report here here on the problems related to the cost of supplies and we know that we will have to act both on the front of the increase of the production of Italian gas and the supply from other countries, and on the push for the renewables, simplifying the procedures of installation of the plants. Let's start with the positive parts: with an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars that I presented we helped some of those 3,000 small municipalities, out of almost 8,000, who have suffered for years the lack of municipal secretaries. There are not enough, some even have to jump from one seat to another, on four locations. Now I do not want to enter into the technicalism of the amendment, but in fact with the modification proposed by us the C-band secretaries, those who are entitled to exercise in the municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, who are - I remember - 56% of the Italian municipalities, will also be able to exercise in the municipalities up to 5,000 inhabitants, that is 70% of the municipalities. This also allows the secretaries already in service to aggregate more Commons up to these limits. With this amendment, therefore, immediately more than 500 Italian municipalities will finally be able to equip themselves with a municipal secretary, a pivotal figure that ensures the top management of the offices in compliance with the legality, an indispensable figure to help these institutions at a time when the PNRR will have to be carried out. This is a first step, but a definitive solution will have to be found. [[Applause]] As I said before, the decree brings inside a great positive point of the Movimento 5 Stars, although I cannot define it a victory, because we are bitter for what we will see later be the other side of the coin. In the decree the Government has inserted an amendment that comes from the pressure exerted last month, especially from the Movimento 5 Stars, immediately after the publication of the decree supports-b. The measure introduced the infamous Article 28, which in fact blocked all disposals after the first of the tax credits of the building bonuses, including those of the superbonus. The market immediately froze. Post office and all banking operators no longer took credit and this stop was given by the Government on the basis of the erroneous assessment that most of the frauds, estimated at around 4 billion, were attributable to the superbonus. Too bad that, following our request, during the audition of the Revenue Agency, Director Ruffini had to say that only 3% of the fraud was due to the superbonus [[Applause]] If we then consider the 130 million of the total of over 13 billion euros of tax credits already requested, we are talking about 1%, a percentage that I could call physiological, on which we certainly have to intervene, but not blocking, because at this point with the same criterion we should stop driving public buses because there is someone who does not pay the ticket. [[Applause]] As I said, therefore, the government had to acknowledge that it made a resounding mistake, I repeat, resounding, because it made a decision that actually blocked everything - and it was known - without looking at the specific data of the individual bonuses. Therefore in haste and fury, on the basis of the pressures he received, he had to issue this decree transposed into amendment in the decree support- ter, which restored the disposals, although in a limited way. But the government, and this is the other side of the coin, the one for which I am and are disappointed, has not evaluated - and it does not matter if it did not want to evaluate or if it failed to evaluate - none of the nearly 50 sub-amendments to the decree, amendments tabled by all the political groups, some of which even not burdensome, that would have fluidized the system. It is clear that we are in a period that we can call a regulatory jam. We know that shortly a series of measures will be discussed between the Senate and the Chamber and as Movimento 5 Stars we intend to propose our solutions: we will continue to discuss them and submit them to the Government and the Ministries. I would like to make it clear that we would also be happy if the government were to evaluate them, make them their own and incorporate them directly into the measures, because they are proposals that are intended to facilitate the lives of citizens and businesses. We had proposed, for example, a solution to avoid limbo in which tax credits that are not accepted by the tax collectors end up. We had proposed in particular that, after thirty days, they be automatically released, so that the transferor could decide for another way, perhaps also to use them in tax compensation, but not even a common sense amendment like this and at zero cost was evaluated. Similarly, it was not assessed what would have allowed credit institutions to make a final and final transfer to their customers for the use in the payment of their tax debts. This would have allowed banks, especially small ones, who may not buy anymore because they are close to their tax capacity, to avoid being subjected to pressure in the reductions in purchase prices by large banks, as I believe is already happening. In this last year of the legislature we will go on practically only for what was once called a decree of urgency and that we can now define normal decree in the statistical sense of the term. But if there is no mechanism to allow Parliament to intervene constructively, then the people and businesses will be the ones who will continue to pay for it. Any action by the Government that, in fact, reduces the parliamentary debate and the analysis of the amending proposals to the decrees does not do the good of the country. We have tabled an agenda, as a majority, which commits the Government to taking a series of actions which have not been included in this decree either in the original version or in the course of the procedure in the Commission. I am not here to propose them, but I really hope that the Government can start from this document in order to make its own the actions that are at the heart of citizens and businesses and virtually the whole parliamentary arc, because in difficult times it is necessary to put aside personal aspirations and synthesize them in actions that serve to bring this country back and to make it run. Being able to complete the PNRR projects is too important a challenge that we cannot lose, and Parliament's contribution and centrality, as President Mattarella also mentioned in his inauguration speech, is crucial. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u78	The general debate is closed. As established by the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u81	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, this is the first time in this parliamentary term that I have asked you to speak on matters not included on the agenda, because I am forced to ask, through this medium, for an answer to a question that I had first signed, which we presented to the Government last February, on a relevant circumstance such as the deaths from Covid. This is an issue on which a Commission of Inquiry should have been committed, if they had allowed us to set it up, because all the European Parliaments have made available to their citizens parliamentary committees of inquiry that shed light on the many aspects of the pandemic and the emergency that has come about, but not Italy. There are regions that have set up committees of inquiry in Italy, but Parliament does not, because there is an emergency (this is the reason why a parliamentary committee of inquiry cannot be set up). Well, the citizens will judge about it. One of the first issues that a hypothetical Commission of Inquiry should have faced is the excess of mortality in our country compared to the European panorama: our deaths for Covid are the most numerous. On the other hand, Mr President, our measures to contain freedoms - with the consequent economic deaths - are the ones that have killed the national economy the most, because our GDP is the one that has suffered the greatest reduction. On these two figures, President, we have questioned Minister Hope and we would like to have an answer, since it is precisely on the Republic that an article has been published that quotes a report by "The Lancet" which compared to health issues is a sort of Gospel, based on a world study that punctually analyzes the deaths for Covid from all over the world and notes that in Italy, compared to those registered that are over 160,000, there would be 120,000 more. I don't know what the truth is, I don't even want to imagine it, but I want our Minister of Health to tell me by responding to the inspection union act 3-03124, presented at session 407 of 23 February 2022.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u84	Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days I have put - to the attention of the Minister for Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility - a question in order to ask for clarification and possible and consequent urgent interventions in self-protection with regard to the decision not to consider eligible two requests for financing formulated in the interest of the internal areas of Campania and in particular for the water district Calore Irpino or for the provinces of Benevento and Avellino, for an amount of about 56 million euros, with regard to the public notice concerning the reduction of losses in water distribution networks, including digitisation and monitoring of networks. In view of the fact that, from personal experience - as you may have also heard - the questions have hardly ever answered, I felt that I would convey my strong and clear voice to the Minister through this speech at the end of the sitting. The territory of the district Calore Irpino represents, with the sources of Caposele, Cassano Irpino, Cesinali, Serino and others, present in the province of Avellino, and with the dam of Campolattaro present in the province of Benevento, one of the most important water basins in Italy and Europe from which comes the water resource served today and that will be served to an ever greater extent in the future to millions of citizens between Puglia and Campania. This internal area of Campania cannot only be plundered by its precious water resource without receiving at least the possibility to improve the efficiency of water distribution networks at the service of the territory. Therefore, it cannot be shared that everything is resolved with the laconic justification that the proposal is not admissible, given that the EGA has declared that it has not yet completed the verifications in relation to the conformity of the custody. The Campania water agency had also provided feedback, assurances and proposals to the Ministry and in any case it is absurd that, despite the presence of excellent design proposals, it is not even considered to evaluate the same merits in order to include them in the relative ranking, but only to resort to a formal harp to exclude such design also from an evaluation of merit. Regardless of the two managers who had prepared the designs through the Campania water agency, Alto Calore SpA. and Gesesa SpA., the two main operators operating currently the Calore Irpino water district, waiting for the race for the identification of the single manager of the integrated water service, to suffer the epochal and very serious damage will be the citizens of that territory, who will thus lose a great opportunity unrepeatable for a bureaucratic issue, without legal, logical and common sense ratio. It is obvious that the Campania water agency would be the guarantor of the realization of the project in question in case of financing, even without any possible change of manager that could be realized as a result of competition and in the taking over of a new subject to the two proposers Alto Calore and Gesesa. I say to the Minister that the funding is for the good of the citizens and the territory and not of the companies that have drawn up the projects, and it is to those citizens and to those territories that the Ministry would do a very serious damage. I call for an urgent remedy in accordance with justice before it is too late. I therefore ask that an assessment be made of the merits of the two project proposals in question with the relative allocation of scores and the inclusion in the ranking. Then, we will see whether the proposals prove worthy of receiving the full funding required, a share of the same or nothing. I thank the Minister - and I also thank you, Mr President - that I am sure he will show respect for the many citizens of the provinces of Benevento and Avellino and only in this way can he say that he has acted in a substantial and real justice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u87	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, I have decided to give a voice to some people who, unfortunately, because of vaccinations are suffering very serious adverse events that no one listens to, so it is true that a committee called "Listen to me" has been set up, precisely because they unfortunately have no dedicated door, no support from the institutions from any point of view. I am the mother of a fifteen-year-old girl, N, a healthy sports girl who until September 2, 2021 had a dream, being a dancer. For this reason he attended a dance academy away from home, but for this reason the green pass would be needed in order to continue to study. So he decides to make the first dose of Moderna, that morning our nightmare began. A few minutes after the injection, N starts to get sick: headache, pain in the arm and a weakness that spread over minutes. She's lying on a cot and taken to the E.R. As the hours passed, N couldn't even stand up anymore. Two neurological examinations, analysis and CT scans reveal nothing abnormal and therefore undergo neuropsychiatric examination. The next morning she was discharged into a still pitiful state, with the diagnosis of anxiety. I carry her home in my arms and for two weeks I had to take her and help her in everything, because she couldn't move. His arm wouldn't stand up and his legs wouldn't hold. The doctors reassured me that he would come by soon and give her paracetamol. I'm booking a neurological visit where I'm advised to stay. One week in the hospital, with paracetamol IV and several psychiatric visits without any improvement. I ask you to be given cortisone, at least to pass the pain in your arm and see if it moves. Nothing. I'm being denied everything. For them the diagnosis is clear: he must go to the psychiatrist. But I know my daughter well. She's not crazy, and if she says she's sick, she's really sick. I'll drop you off and take you home without any improvement. At that moment I found myself in front of a black hole: who helps me? Who am I talking to? We are now in November and N has already lost months of dance school. I decide to go to the vaccine center and ask for help. Fortunately, there I found doctors who understood the situation, confirming that my daughter was really sick, but unfortunately they didn't know what to do. Various neurological, allergenic and cardiological visits have taken place. The result is that N has a functional neurological disorder, caused by the vaccine, and probably also had myocarditis. He's gonna have to do MRI again for confirmation. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I ask for permission to put my speech on the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u88	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u91	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to remind you that one of the real responsibilities of the Government is to answer questions from Members. At this moment, I am here to remind you of two questions, which have as their specific object the ability and the possibility to intervene on smoking, considering as smoke also that in the new and more modern formations, for example heated tobacco smoke, so as not to remain out of the concreteness of my complaint. They are elements that contribute to creating a condition that could, and in fact is proven, be conducive to the possibility of cancer. I would like to make it clear today that my question, 4-02548, can be answered, not least in order to clarify these new forms of smoke. The real reason for my speech at the end of the sitting is that yesterday there was the publication of the documentation at European level on cancer and on the developments that we can now consider capable of illuminating, first, more and better, this disease, which is still one of the major causes of mortality today. Among the factors that predispose to cancer, we all knew that there was smoking, but it was excluded that smoking could also affect new forms, new patterns of smoking. That is so true, Mr President, and that is why I have been fighting this battle for a long time, that heated tobacco smoke enjoys a tax relief of 70%, with the premise that this smoke does not harm health. Yesterday's European Parliament document, in-depth, analytical, concrete and precise, shows that this report exists. So, first of all, I would like the answer to Question 4-02548; secondly, I would like to have justice in tax policies, that these forms of smoke actually pay a higher rate in their taxation; thirdly, I would like the public to be told clearly that smoking is bad, even if this smoke is linked to heated tobacco.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u94	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the last time I dealt with this issue, I said that I hoped that I would not have to do it anymore; I let a lot of accidents happen, but today I am forced to take up a really bad topic: yet another dead person, yet another person who is no longer there. A few days ago, shortly after midnight, along the state road 693 of San Nicandro Garganico, an agricultural entrepreneur from Lesina, Gargano, lost his life because on his way he found animals that were not supposed to be there. It was the second time: about a year before he had demolished the car, but he got away with it, in this park of Gargano where perhaps there is a lack of proper wildlife management (being a park) and things of this kind happen, as in many other parts of Italy. I would like to remind everyone else of that. He's gone. He's dead. A couple of boars got hurt. A few evenings ago our colleague, Senator Briziarelli, risked the same end; it came out by miracle, a boar got hurt. We are on the side of Gino Turco, a dead entrepreneur who is no longer there, and on the side of Senator Briziarelli. We're not on the side of the boars. A strange phenomenon is happening in this country. Science tells us and asks us to intervene from the legislative point of view in an urgent and fast way to bring the situation back to normal: scientific studies speak of a boar per square kilometre, but on the Apennines we are at 14-15 boars per square kilometre. I see someone's face is tired, probably not completely politically clean. I say this starting from what happened this morning, when in 13th In view of the problem of swine fever, there has been a political agreement between the LEU, the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party to establish that this problem must be dealt with by ecological and non-bloody methods. I ask that there be a great deal of reflection on this. As a Genoese citizen, I would also ask that the problem of the presence of animals and wild boars in large urban centres be addressed. We went to the vote on this issue and the political group I mentioned earlier rejected this proposal. I say this as a Genoese, in the days and hours in which herds of wild boar are wandering in the monumental cemetery of Staglieno. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u97	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis linked to the pandemic, already extremely burdensome in itself, has been accompanied by the Russian-Ukrainian crisis that is causing us to fall back into a context of fear and instability. This condition derives not only from the effects closely linked to the conflict and suffering caused to the Ukrainian people, to whom our heartfelt thought goes, but also from the economic and social implications. I am referring to the increase in the prices of raw materials and fuels, which we all live on our skin. It is March 10, 2022 the record quote for diesel and petrol in Italy, rising to 2.5 euros per litre, with the price of diesel that has even exceeded that of petrol. While this rise in prices is linked to the current conflict, on the one hand it is the result of a perverse psychology that focuses on fear and speculation. Protests and strikes are therefore multiplying day by day throughout the country, adding discomfort to the inconveniences. In Italy 80 percent of the goods travel on rubber and with the cost of fuels at these levels the distribution risks being blocked. Maximum solidarity to the hauliers who denounce in loud voice unsustainable losses. [[Applause]] It is more than 2,000 euros per month, which concern not only the various increases, but also other burdens that have been waiting for years to resolve, but are not always there. Same fate for fishermen who have been in port for days because they do not consider it convenient to go out to the sea to fish because they would have double expenses and they know that they can not then redo the final consumer. How to blame him. The same situation for farmers who complain about the sudden increase in the prices of raw materials which are essential for their activity, as well as fuel. Raw materials such as seeds and fertilisers, not to mention feed for the livestock sector. This situation is compounded by the decrease in the availability of cereals from countries such as Canada and Hungary, from which we import raw material indispensable to the Italian milling industry, which will no longer be able to guarantee production in the volumes required by the market. The drama of this scenario is exacerbating an already critical situation and there is a risk that we will find ourselves in a real tsunami on a European scale, whose harmful consequences will fall into many sectors and not only in the directly connected supply chains. It is urgent and necessary to take joint action at European level to launch a debate on emergency recovery in order to quickly ensure measures and actions to ensure stability and prevent crisis situations. It is essential to lay down clear rules on the cost of energy resources in order to eliminate dangerous drifts capable of bringing the productive fabric to its knees, dangerously destabilising the entire economic structure, as has been the case for some time now. As MoVimento 5 Stars we are ready to do everything possible to give maximum support to categories in difficulty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-414.ana.u99	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 17 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.18.
