ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u4	The next item is: "Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on further developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine" I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies senators and senators, today's information intends to deepen the main aspects of the war in Ukraine. In particular, I will focus on the military situation on the ground, the consequences of the conflict from the humanitarian, food, energy, the Italian effort to support Ukraine, the sanctions against the Russian Federation, the ongoing negotiating initiatives, the action of the Government in the field of diversification of energy supplies and food aid to the countries most exposed. The war in Ukraine has reached its 85th day. The Russian army's hope of conquering vast areas of the country quickly clashed with the strong resistance of the Ukrainian people. The Russian Federation has withdrawn from large portions of Ukrainian territory to concentrate its forces in the eastern part of the country. Here, too, the Russian advance progresses much slower than expected. In the last week Ukrainian forces have regained control of Charkiv, in the East of the country, the second city per population in Ukraine. The Ukrainian army has so far rejected Russian attempts to cross the Seversky Donec River and then encircle Severodonetsk, about 100 kilometers north-west of Lugansk. In the South-East of Ukraine the Russian offensive has turned into a military occupation. In Cherson, the Russian forces have left the Russian National Guard the garrison of the area. On 1 May the city adopted the Russian ruble and the Russian telecommunications network Rostelecom was hooked up: a signal of a progressive rooting of Russia in the area. The activities of the air force and Russian missile launches continue on Mariupol and in the Donbass area. According to the Ukrainian military, Russian forces are trying to annex new territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk oblasts. The cost of the Russian invasion in terms of human lives is terrible. The reconstructions with satellite images have identified 9,000 bodies in four mass graves around the city of Mariupol. Last week were found mass graves in Kiev, after those discovered in other places freed from the Russian occupation, for example, in Bucha and Borodjanka. Italy has offered its support to the Ukrainian Government to investigate possible war crimes. In this context, however, our embassy resumed its activities in Kiev. I would once again like to thank Ambassador Zazo and all the embassy staff. [[Applause]] for the spirit of service, professionalism and the great courage demonstrated. On 3 May, the number of internally displaced persons reached 7.7 million. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, some 6 million people, especially women and children, have left Ukraine since the beginning of hostilities to go to neighbouring countries. If you add these two figures, there are almost 14 million residents in Ukraine who have had to leave their homes, almost one in three citizens. Over 116,000 Ukrainians have arrived in Italy, of which 4,000 unaccompanied minors. So far we have included 22,792 Ukrainian students in Italian schools; of these, most (almost 11,000) are girls and children of primary schools. I would like to thank the Minister Bianchi, the staff of the school and all the girls and children of Italy [[Applause]] for this wonderful manifestation of love and collective efficiency. I would also like to thank civil protection, third sector bodies and all Italian citizens who are engaged in the reception of refugees. [[Applause]] Italy is proud of you, of your humanity, of your solidarity, of your welcome. A food crisis is also likely to be added to the humanitarian crisis caused by the Russian invasion. Russia and Ukraine are among the leading suppliers of cereals globally. Alone, they are responsible for more than 25% of global exports of wheat and 26 countries depend on them, for more than half of their needs. The war devastation has affected the production capacity of large areas of Ukraine. Added to this is the blockade by the Russian army of millions of tons of cereals in the Ukrainian ports of the Black Sea and the Azov Sea. The war in Ukraine threatens the food security of millions of people, also because it adds to the criticalities already emerged during the pandemic. The food price index rose during 2021 and reached its historic peak in March. The reduction in cereal supplies and the consequent increase in prices are likely to have disastrous effects, particularly for some countries in Africa and the Middle East, where the danger of humanitarian, political and social crises is increasing. The war also had significant effects on the energy market, increasing uncertainty. Prices were already very high, even before the war, but uncertainty has certainly increased. Due to the technical difficulties linked to the conflict the Russian gas flow to Europe was interrupted through the Sokharanivka gas pipeline, from which passes about one third of the total. However, prices remain at very high levels compared to historical values and are subject to high volatility. Since the beginning of the invasion, the government has moved with conviction to support Ukraine. We have allocated over EUR 800 million in assistance to refugees. About 300 million are part of the last aid decree. We strengthen the reception capacity of refugees and provide refugees with access to public health care. We're a hospitable country. We are demonstrating this and intend to continue to do so. Italy has also allocated 110 million euros in grants to the Ukrainian Government's general budget for emergency management, plus up to 200 million in loans. We finance with 26 million euros the activities of various international organizations active in Ukraine and neighboring countries. Within the framework of the European Civil Protection Mechanism, a humanitarian transport of about 20 tonnes of humanitarian materials from Italian cooperation was organised. The National Civil Protection Service has donated goods such as field beds, tents, medicines, medical equipment to Ukraine and has also offered assistance to Slovakia and Moldova. In order to prevent the humanitarian crisis from continuing to escalate, we must reach a ceasefire as soon as possible and force the negotiations to resume. [[Applause]] It is the position of Italy and it is a European aspiration, which I shared with President Biden and with the political leaders of Congress during my recent visit to Washington. At these meetings I found a universal appreciation for the solidity of the Italian position, firmly anchored in the transatlantic field and in the European Union. [[Applause]] This position allows us to be at the forefront, with credibility, without ambiguity, in the search for peace. From this point of view, the meeting of the chief of the Pentagon Austin with Russian Minister of Defence Shoigu, on 13 May, is an encouraging signal. It's the first phone call since the beginning of the war. Yesterday the Russian Federation communicated to our ambassador in Moscow the expulsion of 24 Italian diplomats. It is a hostile act, which follows similar decisions taken against other European countries and which, however, responds to the expulsion of Russian diplomats from Italy and other EU Member States. It is essential, however, to maintain channels of dialogue with the Russian Federation. It is only from these channels that a negotiated solution can emerge. Italy will move bilaterally and together with European partners and allies to seek every possible opportunity for mediation, but Ukraine and no one else will have to decide what peace to accept, also because a peace that was not acceptable on the part of Ukraine would not even be sustainable. [[Applause]] The European Council will be held at the end of June, where we will also address Ukraine's accession to the European Union. As I said in this House, Italy is in favour of its entry. At the beginning of July I will be in Ankara for the bilateral summit with Turkey, the first of this kind for ten years. In this meeting we will discuss the negotiating and diplomatic prospects of the conflict and the strengthening of relations between Italy and Turkey. If we can talk about an attempt at dialogue today, it is thanks to the fact that Ukraine has managed to defend itself during these months of war. [[Applause]] Italy will continue to support the Ukrainian Government in its efforts to reject the Russian invasion; we will do so in close coordination with our European partners. This is not only about the solidity of the transatlantic link, but also about loyalty to the European Union. The Government has repeatedly reported to the Parliamentary Security Committee of the Republic, which has always found that the support offered is consistent with Parliament's guidelines and guidelines. [[Applause]] At the same time, we must continue to maintain high pressure on Russia through sanctions, because we must bring Moscow to the negotiating table. The restrictive measures approved so far by the European Union and the G7 have already had a significant impact on the Russian economy and this will be even stronger in the coming months. According to the International Monetary Fund's forecasts, the Russian domestic product will fall by 8.5% this year and the inflation rate will reach 21.3%. The Moscow Stock Exchange index lost a third of its value compared to mid-February, before the invasion. To curb the flight of capital, the Russian Central Bank raised interest rates, which today are 14%, and introduced controls on capital movements. The European Union is working on a sixth package of sanctions that Italy strongly supports. The list of interventions includes measures related to oil, restrictions for certain financial institutions and the extension of the list of sanctioned individuals. Deterrence towards Russia also includes the intensification of the Atlantic Alliance's operations. The Allied Supreme Commander has strengthened the level of response along the eastern flank: it is an effort to which Italy contributes with 2,500 units. In the medium term, we are ready to further strengthen our contribution in Hungary and Bulgaria, with 250 and 750 units respectively, in line with the action of our allies. Finally, let us look at the possibility of supporting Romania in its Black Sea demining activities and Slovakia in its anti-aircraft defence. The growing Russian threat has prompted Sweden and Finland to apply to join NATO. Italy strongly supports this request, as I had the opportunity to say yesterday to the Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin during our bilateral meeting. NATO must be accompanied by a genuine common European defence, complementary to the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause]] The first step must be to rationalise military spending in Europe, the distribution of which is inefficient. In my recent speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, I launched the proposal for a European conference with the aim of starting coordination for our investments in safety. [[Applause]] Improving our defence capabilities is not enough to build lasting peace and peaceful coexistence. As President Mattarella said, in the long term there will also be a need for a creative effort to arrive at an international conference on the model of the 1975 Helsinki Agreements. Once the ceasefire has been achieved and the negotiations between Kiev and Moscow have been concluded, we will need to build an international framework that is respectful and shared (to use his words). This conference will have to have the objective, as it was in Helsinki, to bring the countries that are distant today closer together and to make the process of relaxation lasting. Among the principles of Helsinki were respect for the right to self-determination of peoples, not to resort to the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity and political independence of any State: these are values with which Italy fully identifies itself and which we want to see at the heart of the life of the European continent and of the world. The Government intends to continue its efforts to cope with the other crises that arise and are aggravated by the war in Ukraine. The conflict has highlighted the fragility of energy policy in recent years and made even more evident the need to diversify our suppliers. We moved quickly to reduce the share of natural gas we import from Russia, which in 2021 was about 40% of the total. Our goal is not only to increase the supply of natural gas, which we import and need as a transitional fuel - I insist on the concept of transition - but also to invest in these countries in order to increase the production of renewable energy. The agreement we signed in April with Algeria, for example, provides support for the development of renewable energy and innovative low-carbon technologies. [[Applause]] It also provides for the development of electricity transmission network projects in Algeria and electricity interconnection between Algeria and Italy. The Government then moved with the utmost determination to eliminate the bureaucratic constraints that limit the expansion of renewables in Italy. Renewable energy remains the only way to free us from imports of fossil fuels and to achieve a truly sustainable growth model. [[Applause]] The Government will continue to make every effort to make this investment faster, to dismantle and destroy the bureaucratic barriers that prevent investment. That's all it is today. [[Applause]] Government estimates indicate that we can be independent of Russian gas in the second half of 2024. The first effects of this process will already be seen at the end of this year. During my visit to Washington I shared with President Biden the Italian energy strategy. We agreed on the importance of preserving climate objectives, a commitment that Italy intends to maintain. The government has taken very significant measures to protect businesses and households from energy increases. The measures amount to around EUR 30 billion only this year to mitigate fuel price increases and reduce bills. We have given our aid mainly to the most vulnerable sections of the population, particularly to low-income households, and we have helped the most difficult productive sectors such as energy-intensive companies and it is now important that structural solutions are found at European level that overcome the distortions in energy markets. The European Commission presented yesterday the Repower EU plan, which will be at the heart of the forthcoming extraordinary European Council. We need immediate and courageous responses to alleviate the impact of the crisis on our economies. We must also act as urgently as possible to prevent the conflict in Ukraine from causing food crises. During my recent visit to the United States, I discussed with President Biden the urgency of coordinated action, an issue also raised by the German Presidency of the G7. I asked the President for support for a joint initiative between all parties that immediately unlocks the millions of tons of grain blocked in the southern ports of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In other words, the ships carrying this grain must be allowed to pass by and the ports, as they say, being mined by the Ukrainian army, must be decommissioned for this purpose. All stakeholders should now open a partnership bracket to avoid a humanitarian crisis that would kill millions and millions of people in the poorest part of the world. [[Applause]] Italy has promoted a ministerial dialogue with the Mediterranean countries, in collaboration with the FAO, to outline the intervention measures in the region; similar initiatives have been undertaken by France, Germany and the United States, but perhaps the most urgent thing is to do what I said before. I want to thank you - Parliament, the majority and also the main opposition force - for the support you have given to the government in dealing with this crisis. [[Applause]] The resolution adopted by a very large majority committed the Government, inter alia, to support Ukraine from a humanitarian, financial and military point of view, to keep pressure on Russia, including through sanctions, to seek a negotiated solution. It has guided government action very clearly and strengthened our position at international level. The Government intends to move and continue to move in the wake of this resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u7	Mr President, we want peace. We are opposed to military escalation. We want to return to a NATO-Russia partnership. We don't want to raise the Berlin Wall. We don't want to go back to the Cold War. Rearming is dangerous. I believe that these statements at the level of principle find us all united in this House, from President Draghi to the last of our senators. This view is unavailable, that is, it is a fundamental opinion, which is based on our rules of civil coexistence and also on the Constitutional Charter. Therefore, we all agree with these statements, but we begin to have some doubts when they are prodromic to others, who advance in public opinion and are somehow urged by political forces and also by expressions of Italian culture. Then let's take the next step. After all, Russia - these say - has been a bit provoked by NATO. And again: the US is dealing with Ukraine by pushing it to war with Russia, they want the war to continue and all this puts us in contradiction and antagonism with the United States. After all, this drive from the United States to Ukraine is also a half-push against Europe, because Europe is more in difficulty than others (this is undeniable). And then other statements: after all, this war is only for the Americans. As for the diversification of energy sources, President Draghi, our minister Di Maio has gone around, but it is not that these countries from which you take oil and gas are more reliable than others. Besides, as far as prices are concerned, we are no longer sure that they are so competitive compared to the Russian ones. Furthermore, why did you say that Finland and Sweden should join NATO? After all, let us expand NATO again, taking it to the Russian borders. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the first theoretical part of the considerations, for some people this second part of the considerations, which are neither more nor less, mystifications. [[Applause]] All of us, in fact, know well that these statements are either based on naivety, or are based on bad faith. In certain circumstances, in politics and in the institutions - ladies and gentlemen, let me make a joke - we do not know whether bad faith or ingenuity is more dangerous, because it is difficult to understand. Ingenuity is very dangerous for the men of government and institutions and the bad faith obviously cannot be tolerated. Italy owes to the Draghi Government and the President of the Republic a posture of decorum and dignity in line with the tradition of Italian politics, from the post-war Degasperian onwards, which found in the European choice and the Atlantic choice an inseparable connection, because we would not have Europe without the Atlantic choice. [[Applause]] The expansion of NATO is only an alibi - as our Minister of Defence has often told us - because in reality, if we wanted to see it, we had the eyes to do so. We had eyes to see, in the Georgian story of 2008; also in Georgia there is a first way that is repeated: the creation of a fake state, South Ossetia. Then we see that in Moldova there is Transnistria. There is a method of repetitive action, because it responds to the strategy of destabilizing countries. We saw the occupation of Crimea, then we saw the Donbass. Someone even, so convinced that the return of Crimea to Russia was due, went on a trip to Crimea. Colleagues, these were signs that should have opened the eyes of the West and today we must look at the reality of the matter, which goes beyond the punctual speech of our President-in-Office of the Council. The challenge - this is a very serious problem for us - is between dictatorships and democracy. What Putin cannot tolerate is a democracy at his borders. On the other hand, in this case too, we had to see the signs that allowed us to understand. Do you remember when a series of intellectuals in the past few months were talking about "democracy"? What are "democracies"? What is the origin of this concept? It is a simple concept, born from the inside of the Western world. After all, let us be honest, this democracy is full of inefficiencies. bureaucracy and democracy are connected, so President Draghi is not timely. Many said that there is Palazzo Chigi, but there are no commands; there is no room with commands. He must do many things (pilgrimages), then there are political forces: just look at what happened yesterday. But democracy, in order to guide the processes of globalisation and modernisation, is not so good. Maybe it's better a "democracture" with the strong man. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a double challenge: the challenge to democracy that comes from dictatorship and the challenge of those who, from within, for example, Europe, are trying to undermine the very idea of democracy and, with the evocation of strong man, are placed in a sort of limbo, which is the premise for falling where many are falling. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, I believe that the West is called to rediscover its identity. Sovereignism is indispensable, but at European level. If we can talk about peace today, it is only because we have not failed to arm those who were offended on its ground. I have also read the indiscretions that I believe correspond to an objective will of the Government to start a plan of initiatives, negotiations and so on. However, if Italy has a say today and if we can be able to negotiate today - and it is right to say that we must also maintain relations with Russia, despite all misunderstandings - it is for what the President of the Council has defined the solidity of the Italian position (an expression that I liked). This time, therefore, we have been solid, we have not begun to sway and there is someone who has anchored the Italian position to this solidity. That is why the Autonomous Group I have the honour to represent gives a consensus to the Government that is not formal, but, never as at this time, substantial and convinced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u8	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I follow up on what the President-in-Office of the Council has said and allow me to share only a few thoughts on the most recent history. Almost thirty-three years have passed since the fall of the Berlin Wall, about 150 kilometers of wall separating the people of one of the largest cities in Europe. It was overwhelmed by a wave that had been surrounded and held for decades, in which hundreds and hundreds of civilians had been killed in an attempt to pass it and many others had also died jumping out of the windows in pursuit of the same attempt. He came down like a dam overwhelmed by the waters of the basin he was trying to contain. Since that far 1989, the long wave generated is still spreading. A new historical course began that marked epochal changes on our continent, on the whole planet and also in Italy, changes still taking place in Ukraine today. It was not a wall, and I do not think it can be a war today, to contain the will of the peoples who only want to live in a more free and democratic world. These are the ambitions, these are the facts. In the respect of every people and nation, in respect of the history of each one, of the customs and culture of every people, the history of Europe cannot yet be written with acts of war. At this particular historical moment, when the frictions that have held back a path are creating strong vibrations and causing death and destruction, on you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on Parliament and on the Italians all bear great responsibilities. What I wish you, Mr President, is to continue to maintain the high profile of Italy as it has done to date. There are no other alternatives but to take the new course of history based on the freedom of peoples and democracy. Everyone's freedom and democracy as a form of government must always be defended against arrogance and violence; that authentic democracy that Pericles already 2,500 years ago, in a place very close to us, as well as geographical position, also for history and culture, described to its fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to begin my speech with the formulation of a wish, that of good work, for the new President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, the emigration of the Senate, Stefania Craxi [[Applause]] , which I know will lead you with a high sense of the institutions and with that institutional respect and that grace that have always distinguished you, in defense of Italian, national, European and Atlantic values. Congratulations, President, thank you for your important and valuable speech, but also for what you are doing for Italy and for Europe. He has shown that he is not only a capable but also extremely authoritative interlocutor, an important figure, an extraordinary institutional reserve, which has played a strategic, political and diplomatic role not only between Rome and Washington, but also between Brussels and Washington. The principle that characterizes it - the defence of the autonomy and self-determination of peoples - must be fundamental, I want to say it immediately. I am convinced that peace must be what Ukraine wants, not what it wants - or perhaps imposed - by others. Mr President, for us the political line is one and it is clear, as we have shown since the beginning of the conflict. Like we said, there's an attacker and an attacker. We have expressed words of firm condemnation, but President Berlusconi has pointed out that the only possible path at this time is that of dialogue and the achievement of peace. Its political and personal history, the history of Forza Italia, is that of a constant employment and commitment to the dialogue between our Atlantic and Europeanist propensity and the countries of the former Soviet bloc. However, we must also be sober in words and realize that if we want to bring Russia to the peace table we must have a diplomatic attitude and we must be aware that we cannot, at least at this stage, bring the conflict into words to the extreme consequences. This is the spirit that has always animated us and it is also the spirit of Sea Practice, which had, with great vision, President Berlusconi. You, President Draghi, know with what conviction our political side has supported and supports your Government and your international commitment, but you also know that the choices we are sharing have not been made lightly. The moment is in fact dramatic and it is our responsibility to build a path of security for our country and our economy within an international context. We are close, as we have said and as you have said, to the Ukrainian people. We have demonstrated this through our political action and humanitarian initiatives and support to the Government of Kiev. We believe in the principle of the self-determination of the peoples, but at the same time we know perfectly well how to keep the negotiating table open in the interests of peace, security and also the balance that has governed the international system since the end of the Second World War. Peace, not pacifism of manner, is an ideal to which we all, noble and elevated, should lodge in the heart of each of us. However, we are faced with an unprecedented crisis and a conflict that languishes the doors of Europe, and this can only force us to have a strong responsibility in supporting your Government and your person. We therefore renew them, Mr President, our esteem and urge you to make every effort to open up the front of dialogue and ceasefire negotiations, to restore Europe a future of peace in prosperity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I listened carefully to your speech and found it contradictory and hypocritical. You said that you have the objective of achieving the ceasefire as soon as possible, but you also said on the other hand that peace must be what Ukraine wants to pursue, which means either that it does not have clear ideas or that it wants to hide the real objectives of the government. It is clear that two are the objectives that can be pursued: one is the ceasefire as soon as possible, as you say in words, that must be achieved through a territorial compromise and mutual guarantees, because only in this way can it be achieved immediately; the other is to allow a Ukrainian counter-offensive that brings territorial integrity back to that country. I am not saying that one thing is right and the other it is wrong; I am saying that these are two opposing objectives and I would like clarity on that. Are we sending and sending weapons to allow a counter-offensive that takes Russia to its previous borders, even accepting the risk that these long-range weapons may hit the launch bases in Russian territory, or do we want a compromise with mutual guarantees to achieve the ceasefire as soon as possible? I would point out that these two objectives, which differ from one another, had to be a cause for debate in Parliament, and that is why we have asked on several occasions that there should not be only its presentation, without Parliament being able to take a position on these two opposing views, namely peace immediately with a compromise or a long-term war, with the risk of escalation. The sovereignty of Parliament and the nation had to be expressed on this, and you and your government did not allow us to do so. [[Applause]] And I feel shame and sorrow for the forces of the majority and the fake opposition that allowed her to do this. This also affects what you are going to say at the extraordinary European Council on 30 and 31 May. I would like to point out that last Tuesday, the Minister for Relations with Parliament D'Incà, all the Group leaders and even the President of the Senate, who for the first time spent words of defence on the centrality of Parliament, asked you and your Government to come here next week not to make mere information, but to make communications, so that we can vote and tell you what I am saying to you now: do we want to send weapons for a counter-offensive, accepting the risk of military escalation, or do we really want peace with a compromise? That is what we must express ourselves on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] We must take a stand and not just say that peace is beautiful and war is bad. We must act in practice and our action is a vote of direction that has been denied to us so far; take note of this and respond to it throughout the country, which is watching you. And again, Mr Draghi, how can we say so lightly that we will facilitate the further extension of NATO? Don't you understand it's a further provocation? How is it possible then to complain about the expulsion of Italian diplomats, when in April we were the first - with Minister Di Maio, who now pretends not to hear - to expel Russian diplomats? What hypocrisy is it to say that diplomatic channels must be kept open when we first expel Russian diplomats? In short, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I see that statements are made by you and your Government, but in fact the opposite is true. I fear that this comes from a subdiction to Anglo-American interests, because it is objective that the interests of the European Continent are different from those of the United States. Maybe she doesn't realize it, because she trained at MIT in Boston, because she worked at Goldman Sachs and in American banks, and because she's part of the Group of Thirty. [[Applause]] , but look that today Italy and Europe need third parties and autonomy, because our interests are not those of the United States, with which we also acknowledge that we have a debt. It is clear that we are grateful to the Anglo-Americans, because we have been freed from Nazi-Fascism by them, but today our interests differ. We must take note of this and have the capacity to defend Italian and European interests. [[Applause]] To do this, we need moral standing, strength and courage. If you don't have them, step aside and give way to someone who can defend the interests of Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u14	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u15	Mr President, I would first like to ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech if I cannot finish it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u16	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u17	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I am a pacifist, a category which you warlords consider to be contemptuous and sufficiency, but we do not appreciate you very much, and above all we do not understand you at all. "The entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO makes peace closer" is an absurd, meaningless phrase; doesn't it seem to you too to hear Orwell's new language? After all the nonsense about the Kurds, which could cost us Erdogan. You ask us how we plan to stop the war, if with the flowers in the cannons. With the negotiations, of course. We ask you, however, how you plan to end this war with war. Putin was excluded from meetings and multilateral institutions because he is a war criminal, but can war end without Putin's participation in any solution or without imagining any form of negotiation with him? No. If the President of the International Committee of the Red Cross has also been criticized for meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister in Moscow, while he was just doing what he had to do in his role, what negotiations can we expect? The exclusion was the must of the West in the face of the Russian invasion: no more Russian authors, no more singers, no more Russian tennis players in Wimbledon. The hope is that a rebellion will overthrow Putin or that his health will prevail or that Putin's army will be finally defeated, but the truth is that they are only hypotheses with too many variables of uncertainty, which take too long, while it is absolutely necessary to find a solution now. The war cannot end without Putin's involvement. To follow the American Secretary of Defense, who has the objective of weakening Russia, is not good, not for us Europeans, not for the poorest countries on the planet, not for the planet. We are an interconnected world and we must work towards a solution that benefits everyone, to end fighting, to re-establish relationships, to work for social and climate peace. We no longer have time for conflicts, walls, and divisions of the last century. You're old! [[Applause]] Humbling the enemy will not bring us the necessary energy, environmental and climate solutions, which are then economic, food and social. They will certainly not ask permission to enter poverty and hunger, which will turn everything upside down - this is certain - like a storm, by the force of a hurricane. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done. How can we deal with this with 200 euros once or with the mystification of energy companies such as ENI, which deceive sanctions by opening up two accounts, one in euros and one in rubles? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've finished your time, Senator. NUGNES (Mixed). Wait a minute. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Comments of Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u19	Maybe NATO's barking at the door of Russia has led the leader of the Kremlin to react badly and to unleash the conflict. An anger that I can't tell if it was provoked, but facilitated maybe it did........................................................................................... Who had the courage, freedom and boldness to say these words? Pope Francis. President Draghi is too focused on distracting himself, so he cannot even hear the quote of Pope Francis: "The bark of NATO," did you understand President Draghi? Did you understand the weight of these words? No, because you're too focused on doing something else. Either NATO, therefore, stops playing games that do not compete with it, asymmetrical games, or we do not get out of it; peace is not built in asymmetry. NATO's role in this conflict in Ukraine is, yes, asymmetric and in this asymmetry Europe is not there; on the contrary, it is divided, because this is Europe's task: to divide. Does Germany once again play a game for itself and what does Italy do? The task is dictated by the White House: Biden has asked her to speed up the process and the times of liberation from Russian energy dependence, that is, Biden collects the increase of the supply of liquid gas, but to what extent? Now we also have the Biden-Draghi Government. And we come to the penalties for payment in rubles. I told you here in the Senate right from the start: the Germans will pay in rubles, they said it clearly; instead we played hard. Companies - among other things, some state-owned companies - will complete the negotiation operation by repairing euros and rubles. So either we cut the check like they said (the Russians) or the Russians cut off the gas, and you knew that right away. But you preferred to make jokes about air conditioners or peace. There is an industrial world - I inform you - that is being organised to technically circumvent sanctions with triangulations with non-EU countries, including Turkey, and it is the only way not to fail, they say. I hope that, after those on air conditioners, you will not want to make similar jokes - do you prefer bread, brioches or peace? - because, in the fury of jokes, Italians have expensive bills and an industry in distress. We are close to a heavy recession and Africa will have a despair dictated by the lack of wheat: if there is no bread, there will be no peace, if you remember, President Draghi [[Applause]] ; if there is no bread, there will be no peace; wars between the poor and Africa will break out to tens of thousands of them: how do you plan to stem this situation? With Lamorgese checking out the green passes? From Africa they will reach tens of thousands. Europe must not follow NATO or Biden. That is why you were wrong to hug next to Biden. The European army you want is another American armed arm. Peace is a mediation, a negotiation and must not be dictated by Biden's America. No more serious weapons and no more theater on the third and fourth decree. [[Applause.]] Shame on you! 5 Stars, be ashamed! Peace must only be built with a serious negotiating table and you must have the courage to do so. Dear President Draghi, you are here not for the interests of the Americans, but for the interests of the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u20	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u21	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, those who turned on television only fifteen minutes ago would presumably be struck by the fact that the Italian Parliament has learned that the invasion of Ukraine has obviously taken place by NATO or the United States of America. [[Applause]] , to judge from the tones that are expressed in this House, moreover more for internal purposes than to really make a contribution, because what is happening is an epochal fact, that goes far beyond the borders of the Donbass, exceeds the sieges of Mariupol and takes off from the ports of Odessa. We are in the presence of the reorganization of the world following a dramatic, bloody, tragic and wrong fact, but that marks, in my humble opinion, the end of a season that had seen in Yalta, after the Second World War, the beginning of a reorganization and that had resisted, somewhat patched, even the events of the Berlin Wall. What is happening in Ukraine is a change of era. If we want to take this seriously, we must of course have the courage to say that when there is a debate between NATO on the one hand and Russia (or the former Soviet Union) on the other, it is not this Parliament that decides. It is the history of our country, which says that we, for decades, have chosen and continue to choose to be with our European and American friends and allies on this side of history and on this side of the planet. Alcide De Gasperi, who also had against the entire international assembly, understood it. Consider the greatness and humility of that speech in Paris: I feel that everything, except your personal courtesy, is against us. However, at different times, the leader of what was the political force of opposition, that Enrico Berlinguer, who, in an interview with Giampaolo Pansa in 1976 on the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), explained, not candidly, that he felt safer on this side. Now, if this is the scenario, no political leaps, but neither, Mr President-in-Office, can I say that no priced parsley that on television, every night, tells us how the world is going will be able to change this starting point. We are on the side of our friends and allies and to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us say thank you for the way you represented this kind of position from the first day to yesterday, when you rightly welcomed Finland's first minister, and then in the days to come. However, I now come to make an extra argument. The premise is that this is an epochal fact, and it is true that we fully agree with the President-in-Office of the Council's statement. It is true that, if there had not been a shipment of weapons, there would have been no possibility of being in this situation and we are proud that at Palazzo Chigi there is a President of the Council who adheres to the values of all time, rather than last minute polls. The fundamental point, however, is now to have the courage to say that open problems are atrocious. I can only list them, but they are not the ones who, screaming wrinkledly, someone here places the attention of Parliament. A reorganization of the geopolitical world is underway: there is a risk of moving from the G20 to the G2. China is the rocky guest of many discussions, starting with the potential issues related to Taiwan. The fact that today there is a congress of the Chinese Communist Party, which is heavily undermined by the events of the Covid-19, cannot make us ignore that this is the background of our debate. There is one issue that concerns Europe. I'm a convinced European. We are convinced Europeans. A large part of this Parliament is a convinced European. However, we must have the strength and courage to say that Europe has responded well on the Covid-19, which has responded well on the Ukrainian emergency, but which needs a long-term political look. Six months ago we were all against Poland, we wanted to delete it from Europe and we were all against Greta. Today we are all behind Poland and we are aiming at nuclear power. It is a theme that objectively exists. We need a political Europe that goes beyond the necessary solidarity. I am happy when the highest institutional positions go to Kiev: they make an important gesture. But there is one problem, namely that Europe must decide what to do when it grows up. We have a frightening demographic crisis. Are we gonna tell each other or not? Civilizations end with the demographic crisis and we have a situation where China and India travel to the three billion citizens and we are in a situation of great crisis. Again, the theme of Islamic terrorism has disappeared. When Turkey says: we let Sweden and Finland in if you give us some money, but even if you allow us to do what we want with the Kurds, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must have the honesty to say that, if there were no Kurdish girls in 2015, this planet would have ended up in the hands of Islamic extremists. [[Applause]] On the territory, in fact, they were the ones who held arms and carried on the resistance: the Kurdish women. Of course we know that the Kurdish issue is much wider than Erdogan's accusations of Kurdish terrorism, but the point is that we cannot pretend not to talk about these issues. There are African countries that are seeing growing phenomena of incredible Islamic extremism. In the Middle East, we are redefining the balance and let me say that there is a concern, even in the medium term, about the Russian Federation. It is not only the children of Moscow and St. Petersburg in Ukraine who die: the children of the farthest republics die. I mean, this is something we're going to have to deal with. Furthermore, there is the issue of food sovereignty and food geopolitics, which the President-in-Office mentioned very correctly. As for immigration, Ukrainian immigration is already higher, or more or less equal, within two or three months, than what had been considered an invasion in 2015-2016. When we had that immigration from Africa, everyone shouted at the invasion that we could not contain; today we are giving an extraordinary demonstration of great solidarity and did very well the President-in-Office of the Council to give a hug and affectionate thought to children. However, there is a question of extraordinary change, which will certainly be aggravated by the possible and probable famine in Africa and the further arrivals from that continent. I can't quote all the open points, but there's potential for autogols. It is clear that today NATO must decide what to do when it grows up and we cannot say it now, because paradoxically Putin has strengthened it, but two and a half years ago a leader, French President Macron, spoke of a state of brain death of NATO. I shared that judgment. The Minister of Defence rightly did not share this, but his wisdom with regard to mine is notoriously the subject of discussion between us for a few years in a very affectionate way. There is no doubt, however, that in 2019 NATO was essentially without a vision. Today that organization expands and expands, but what is its strategic design? It cannot only be the fact that Putin strengthens her against her will. On the other hand, I wonder if we are sure that the exit from the dollar-based financial system is good. Are we sure it's not a autogol to eliminate some institutions? As President-in-Office of the Council, you know that much better than I do. I am thinking of the importance of the great international financial institutions, when some states choose to accept the Chinese currency in addition to the American currency - for example - for oil or, vice versa, the digital currencies, with all the risks involved, of which the then President of the European Central Bank had the opportunity to indicate the limits. This is a theme that exists. These problems, ladies and gentlemen, are the real issues and I have stopped without addressing the issue of democratic transition. We, in fact, defend democracy, but then we also have a problem between ourselves: we should have an institutional system in which we know who wins and who governs for five years, but we do not have it, for everyone's responsibility, and I want to say so. In the face of what is happening in Ukraine, do we continue to scream at each other - as I have seen in the last speeches - or do we try to do, as the President-in-Office of the Council has also asked us, a more serious and complex analysis? We are in the presence of a historical change. In conclusion, Mr President, politics is not the continuation of war by other means, as a famous Prussian general said. Politics is the negation of war or, if you like, war is the negation of politics. We need a great political and diplomatic effort, as we have been saying since 24 February, but we also need to overcome the attitude of these days, in which it seems that foreign policy can be the subject of a permanent internal fight. We are Italy, we are one of the largest countries on this planet and we have a great responsibility: we must live up to the values we represent by deepening the problems, studying them and not just putting together a row of meaningless slogans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u22	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u23	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for agreeing to transform the Premier Question Time, which was scheduled for today, into the information requested first by Senator Rauti of the Brothers of Italy at the Conference of the Leaders. I listened to your speech very carefully, but I also recorded the applause that came: they were almost never of its entire majority, but in pieces, that is, sometimes applauded one and sometimes applauded another. So my curiosity has increased to understand what will be the attitude of the interventions that still have to follow. One I just listened to, President Renzi's. You had to struggle not only in international fora, but also in our home you had a little trouble putting together positions very wide apart. I'm not going to list the fact that Count says something and Di Maio says exactly the opposite. It is yesterday that the Presidency of the Foreign Affairs Commission, emigration, which fortunately ended with the election of a responsible person such as Senator Craxi, to whom I wish good work. So I'm curious how everyone's gonna pull the blanket a little bit. On the contrary, there is no doubt as to what the position of Brothers of Italy is, because it is clear and coherent. We have always been anchored - and we remain - to the Western world for our common cultural and values roots, as ours are stories of economic, commercial and even military alliances that sink when the Republic was born. It has been since 1949 that the Italian right, in its various political expressions (MSI, National Alliance, then PdL and now Brothers of Italy), has always consistently sided - I say it to those who wondered - on this side of the world, in support of the Western defensive instrument that is NATO. We have always felt that the danger to our independence and freedom came - alas - from the East in the post-war period. Senator Renzi quoted Berlinguer, who - it is true - at some point tried to change - and I give him notice - what in Italy was a radically different position of the left, which still - we heard him here and there, and not in the PD - echoes different positions. We have entrusted the burden of our defence to NATO, but at the same time - at least for Brothers of Italy - we consider it absolutely important that sooner or later a truly European pillar of NATO arrives, because it is one thing to be an ally and another to be a subject. There are those who are against any military expenditure - and it drives me crazy - but at the same time they get angry when the Americans - to whom we entrust our defense, saying: think about it yourselves - are interfering in our policy. [[Applause]] Decide: If you do not want excessive interference, if you want to be equal, you cannot be against the efforts necessary for a defense that, never like at this time, proves absolutely indispensable. President Draghi, war is not a lightning strike: you know it and everyone knows it. Russia's expansionist policy is the daughter of the ideology of its mother Russia and Putin's attempt to take back the territories that were of the Soviet Union is evident. That is what explains the behaviour of Moldova and Georgia and why Finland is asking to join NATO: it is clear what the policy and desire of Putin's Russia is (I was saying about the Soviet Union). Faced with this we have to imagine that it is absolutely right to put a stop. How? With a direct NATO intervention in Ukraine? No, we'd be crazy, as it would amplify the conflict. We need to help them defend themselves. How do you help them defend themselves? By sending all necessary aid, including in terms of defensive weapons. What do you mean, defensive weapons? I hear we have to send non-lethal weapons. Do we send medieval shields and helmets? I don't understand. Do we send out sprung kitchen knives? The weapons to defend themselves are the ones necessary to turn back those who invaded them. [[Applause]] It has been since Ukraine was invaded that the possible reasons of the invaders have completely failed. This is our position. There could have been a different argument, but they didn't want it. Then, we who have constantly said that the defense is always legitimate at home and we want it when a thief enters our home, at this point we can not really understand how to imagine that it is not legitimate the defense of those who are attacked in the house of their own nation. [[Applause]] We bow to the heroic defense of men, women, Ukrainian soldiers and not only in Mariupol, but throughout Ukraine, without exception. We are careful not to fall into Putin's trap: we do not believe that those who are still fighting in the steel mill, as they are even more heroic, are more evil. We must give full solidarity, without exception, to the men and women who fight hard to defend their homeland and their freedom, but also our independence. They don't do it for us, but it's a consequence and I'm surprised there's someone who doesn't understand it. I am surprised that we do not see how we should be in solidarity today with those who are attacked in their own territory and in their own geographical, political and human integrity and that defending themselves affirms the principle that this cannot be done. Certainly it costs and brings with it some drawbacks. We know that we may have to pull the belt a little bit, but there are valuable reasons why it is right to do so and these are more than enough for us. However, there are also very concrete reasons, which the naives probably do not understand: the West has responded compactly to the Russian aggression and, if Italy today became the weak link and soft belly of the West, breaking this compactness and questioning military support to Kiev, we would become the Parish of the West, the unreliable State, as we are often painted. And this would have enormous costs for us in terms not only of security, but also of relations with the rest of the West, which also means economic and commercial relations, which affect the well-being of Italians. President, we are on the side of Italy, we are on the side of the attackers. And to those who take back the same arguments that they used in 1956, when Hungary was invaded, and in 1968, when the communist tanks invaded Prague, because they wanted the West to stand by and not intervene, we say that the intervention in defence, political and with the sending of necessary weapons, is absolutely shared by the Brothers of Italy and is necessary for our nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u24	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u25	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your speech you made it clear - of course we are all aware of this - that today the war is at a different stage and I believe that in your meeting with Biden this was also a very clear signal and we have rightly appreciated it. We are in a different situation because Russia, in an absolutely unequivocal way, has failed the criminal attempt at the occupation of Ukraine and is politically isolated. There is a military stalemate. At first, Ukraine had to defend itself against a real military occupation and the risk of annexation, and we did well, of course, to support its resistance. Today there is a different situation, thanks also to this resistance and the work of solidarity that has been done. Until now, however, Mr President-in-Office, there has actually been no real negotiation on all these long days and weeks of war. Then we say clearly that this is the time to put in place a real and powerful diplomatic initiative. We appreciated today, reading it in the newspapers, among other things, the attempt made by Italy and Minister Di Maio and the points he has made, because this is the time. Why do I say that until today there has been no negotiation? Because obviously there have been different, very different pressures, and there has been no convincing work on the idea of opening negotiations. Can the European Union do this on its own? Is it a political entity that can do that? I don't know frankly if you'll be able to do that. We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as Macron has rightly begun to do, must, however, put in place diplomatic action, together with the leading countries of the European Union (I am talking about France, Spain and Germany). This is the time to bring out all the possibilities and initiatives, because we must come to a ceasefire. We must absolutely stop this escalation, because it has highlighted the dangers and problems facing us: the humanitarian crisis, the energy crisis, the lives that are continuing to be lost, the lives of children, suffering. We must stop the escalation, among other things, at a time of great weakness in Russia; when there is weakness, escalation can be very dangerous, because we are dealing with a great nuclear power. I believe that this is the time to ensure that, to all the work that I imagine has continued to do, a path to open negotiations is clearly and visibly flanked. Let me say, Mr President, that peace is being made and the negotiations are opening up knowing that it will be a path of compromise and mediation and it certainly cannot be just a peace like the one that Ukraine, which is the victim of, perhaps, the country. The conditions will have to be built with patience and with a strong diplomatic capacity. Until now, the West has put on the field above all and exclusively the support and supply of weapons, but today - I repeat - is the time to act quickly, because we cannot afford to make the conflict permanent, with all the problems that it is already causing. I believe that sanctions may need to be recalibrated further, putting in place, for the purpose of deterrence, those that strike Russia more precisely, avoiding our economy paying the costs. As you well said, we must also face the humanitarian crisis: we cannot afford to see 47 million people die of hunger in an impassive way. A strong initiative is important, including from the point of view of opening negotiations. Russia must let the ships through and port clearance must be carried out. This is in line with Italian foreign policy. It is important to have this capacity - and I say this quite clearly - in the wake of other European countries such as France, Germany and Spain. We are able to act wisely and open negotiations. If not now, when? I believe that this is the need that this Parliament should express today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u27	Mr President, we are with you, without hesitation, to reiterate the Atlantic position of our country and, at the same time, to stress the need for a strengthening of European protagonism in order to achieve the ceasefire and for the opening of negotiations that are finally credible in order to resolve the Ukrainian crisis. We all know this in this House: the credibility and security of our country are being played on the foreign location, and there cannot and must not be room for any ambiguity. In the same way, we know that the more we maintain the compact European front, the more we can work for that dialogue in which we believe, the more solid we have to guarantee. Putin led our continent into a war that we never thought we should see and upset all the rules underlying the international community; she also remembered them, starting from the inviolability of borders and respect for territorial integrity. The rejection of Putin's armed aggression can only see us all united, as can any attempt to return peace to Ukraine. If there is one thing that has given a different imprint to this crisis, which was certainly something unexpected for Putin, it was precisely the compactness of the European Union - which we continue to claim here today - and NATO in helping the Ukrainian self-defense. On the contrary, we can say without a shadow of a doubt that to date this compactness has been the most effective deterrent to Russia. On August 31, 2021, with the withdrawal of Afghanistan's troops, NATO gave an image that perhaps helped make Putin feel confident that he could embark on his war campaign. But Putin had no idea that this campaign would end up producing, for the heterogenesis of the ends, a re-establishment and strengthening of NATO and an acceleration of the European Union's path towards the adoption of a common defence policy. It is no coincidence that these days we have also witnessed the call - unthinkable until a few months ago - for Finland and Sweden to join NATO. We are talking about two historically and culturally neutral countries, very far from the idea of entering the Atlantic Pact, which have made this historic decision precisely because of the rupture and disruption of the geopolitical balance that caused Putin. The great concern that has led these countries to apply for membership is absolutely understandable and must be welcomed. The words spoken yesterday by the Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin right here in Rome are significant: We want to join NATO to defend peace. [[Applause]] With this I am going to the most delicate and complex issue, which is that of sending military aid, but it is part of the broader design of the instruments of assistance and support that we are giving to Ukraine, as you well mentioned before. No one, when it comes to military aid, makes a decision lightly. We in the Democratic Party certainly did not do so, despite a caricature reading that was also there. PD believes in the peacekeeping force, which means building peace, not simply summoning it. I am convinced that if Ukraine can sit at a table with Russia to treat peace and not its surrender, it will be because we have helped it defend itself and we have not abandoned it. [[Applause]] President, I do not want to forget this: the Government has received an extraordinary mandate, by a very large majority, from Parliament for this very purpose and clearly within the constitutional perimeter. [[Applause]] I hope that, at this very dramatic time, the line that is able to unite us all is to prevent public debate from slipping on a plane where slogans and simplistic readings can be found. When we talk about this war, we talk not only about an invasion, but also about the clash between two models of society and civil life: liberal democracies, on the one hand, and autocracies, on the other. Defending Ukraine has meant and is meant to defend the liberal democracies and the borders of the continent. We have seen the terrible images of Bucha and continue to listen to the dramatic reports of the war envoys, whom we thank for the information they carry out in a war that is also disinformation. [[Applause]] We have a duty to continue to help the Ukrainian people defend themselves through the sending of aid and sanctions and at the same time to give a strong and effective response with economic support. Otherwise, the unity we are witnessing today will be followed by a return to populism in Europe. The government - we acknowledge this - has already put in place many important measures to support families and businesses and we say that we must move forward. However, the Ukrainian crisis has once again shown the solidarity of our country and the profound generosity of the citizens and our mayors, who have worked to welcome and offer material aid to the people who have fled the war and to build territorial support networks (and this also in the framework of a historic decision taken by the Council of the European Union, which has activated the mechanism that allows refugees to be granted temporary protection). Finally, the principle of sharing in the management of migratory flows is being put at the centre, and for us the new Europe is being built in this way too. [[Applause]] , as is also being built through a strengthening of the path towards a common foreign and defence policy. The war scenarios of recent months have taught us that, if the European Union wants to be not only an economic giant, but also a global actor capable of affecting the new international scenario, it must have more effective decision-making tools, and that is why it is increasingly urgent to amend the Treaties, starting with overcoming the principle of unanimity. That is why, as a Democratic Party, we strongly relaunch the proposal of the European Convention for the modification of the Treaties, because without this change it will be impossible to overcome the obstacles we face today in pursuing a political union. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen: we should claim this here, because as a Senate we were among the promoters of the first vote of Parliament in a country of the European Union to commit the Government to the European Convention; and we did so also thanks to the work of our senatorial delegates at the Conference on the Future of Europe, which for the Senate were Alessandro Alfieri and Paola Taverna. Let us remember that we have done these things and of this we should be proud, because it is a step towards the future. It is important that Italy is on the front line in order to push Europe to take a shot, to invest in itself, which is the only way to make our continent the protagonist of a peace process; it is an investment that concerns an overall strategic autonomy and also a common path for energy independence from Russian gas. This government must be given the speed with which it has moved to diversify supplies, to accelerate the development of renewable energy. Autonomy and a common energy policy are the other way around the construction of a stronger Europe, but we also have a duty to find pragmatic solutions to a global response to the food crisis, caused by the blockades of exports of wheat and maize. We are pleased, Mr President-in-Office, that you have also highlighted the problem of food scarcity and that you have wanted to focus on the problems that result: you are strengthening the role of our country in a Euro-Atlantic framework that Italy has guaranteed, and this gives us the strength and credibility to help build a path of peace. At a time when it is not only the freedom and democracy of the Ukrainian people that are in danger, but also an idea of the world in a historic moment when the future of Europe is decided, we in the Democratic Party strongly support the Government and we are convinced that the other political forces of majority can only give strength and continuity to the action of the Executive. The opposite would mean weakening Italy, cutting it off from the construction of new continental and international geopolitical structures and depriving it of its leading role with our European partners. We have the duty of unity and responsibility, because an isolated Italy in the international or ambiguous context on its location would not have the strength to play a leading role in the historical path that will redesign the future of all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u29	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, distinguished members of the Government, fellow senators, anyone who has any sense of the State knows that a single compass must or should guide the choices of governments and political majorities that support them in foreign policy, especially in a context of war. That compass is called realism. I read pseudo-pacified statements inspired by two ancient evils, acute polling and anti-Americanism, which have nothing to do with reality. We are no longer a sovereign country, we are now an American colony. Well, not in Leoncavallo's leaflets, but in political science manuals, Italy's condition in the so-called first Republic was defined as limited sovereignty. We were kept in shape by the international context, because we had the strongest Communist Party in the West and were bordered to the East by the Soviet bloc. The Berlin Wall has failed, the first Republic has failed, and since then we have been fighting in that crisis in search of an identity. Yes, we can give up friendship with the United States; yes, we can avoid building a political Europe. At that point, however, we would only have to decide which of the renaissance empires to be a colony, whether of China, Russia or - I add - also of Turkey. [[Applause]] Putin cannot agree to confine himself to a NATO country: an interesting theory. It is clear to everyone that, if we had not supported the resistance and the Ukrainian army, Putin would have already eaten Ukraine. At that point, it would border with Poland for over 400 kilometers and would be allowed to eat that too. And then what? I remember that, at the time of the Cold War, when the missiles were actually deployed, the two blocks, the Soviet and the Western, were trivially separated by a river, the Elbe, and no one was threatened or provoked for this. There's the Arcitalian evergreen, but what do we get from it? What interest do we have? The interest we have is because Putin, invading Ukraine, declared war on the West, its values, liberal and democratic, and we - as is the case - were born in the West, so on values and Western identity we must necessarily use it to restore sense to a geopolitical order that has been lost. We are zero year of a geopolitical order and we cannot think that this will solve itself. It's because of NATO's expansionism, says someone. NATO does not expand, NATO is a defensive alliance to which we adhere. Two traditionally neutral sovereign states, Finland and Sweden, have for centuries decided to join the Atlantic Alliance because they feel threatened, as even Berlinguer felt in 1976. And then it is not the fault of NATO or the states that adhere to it; it is the fault of Putin, who is unable to make an attractive foreign policy. Colleagues, there is an unwritten law of politics, which wants those games, those positionings and the fake conflicts that are exercised to the right extent in internal politics not to enter into foreign policy, which presupposes sovereignty, interest and national security. Raymond Aron said that foreign policy is the highest form of politics; those who violate that unwritten law of politics assume a very serious responsibility, that of damaging the image and political force of Italy in the eyes of NATO allies, European partners, Putin and financial markets. I am addressing all my fellow Members: those who disrespect foreign policy always offend politics and politics sooner or later, take revenge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u30	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u31	President Draghi, thank you for your words of peace, both in Washington and here in this House today, which I think are shared with everyone. Almost three months after the beginning of the conflict, those who continue to speak only of weapons and war, weapons and war, do not do the good of Ukraine, do not do the good of the whole world and not even of Italy. Here we are paid by the Italian people, so it is right to save lives in the countries near us, but we also have the duty to do the Italian national interest and to stop the war as soon as possible means to save jobs in Italy. [[Applause]] Peace means work. When someone, even in this House, renews the invitation to send more weapons and at most the Italian workers will pull the belt, I am not in. We are absolutely, proudly and happily anchored to the values, rights and freedoms conquered in the West. We are with democracy, never with war. We are with the people, never with the aggressions. As proof of what I am saying and of the fact that we have roots and identities and that we are not born out of nowhere, we tried to include in the European Constitution, in the founding Charter of Europe, the Jewish-Christian roots. Too bad someone left for the politically correct opposed it. We are probably much more pro-European than someone who says Europe when he gets up in the morning, but forgets what the founding fathers of Europe wanted. [[Applause]] I remember, for example - and then I'm going to make some proposals, because I've heard so many analyses, but then peace is not only to be desired, but also built and sought - a great absentee, the UN. I would point out that last year the UN passed some 20 resolutions against the rogue countries. Well, the absolute majority of those resolutions - 14 out of 20 - were passed not against repression in China, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Turkey or other countries, but against Israel. We cannot, however, be for democracy, rights and freedoms every other day. [[Applause]] Who wants to wipe Israel off the face of the earth is an enemy of democracy, the West and freedom: 14 out of 20 resolutions adopted by the UN General Assembly against Israel tell us that something is not working. Let's come to us. Even today the Holy Father, receiving the new ambassadors, said that peace must be sought. I am sorry that some ignorant people in this House are making noise when they quote the Holy Father, who is a man of state, as well as a man of faith. [[Applause]] , which would have to be taught to many, to me first. The mumblings reserved for someone else, possibly. As I said, peace must be sought, but it must be built. President Draghi, you are certainly the most authoritative to carry forward any hypothesis of ceasefire. Three concrete and immediate suggestions. He talked about the food crisis. There are dozens of African countries that depend on the grain produced and exported to Russia and Ukraine. There are tons and tons of wheat; there are 200 million African citizens in Senegal, Egypt, Kenya and the Central African Republic who risk dying during this summer, if you do not unblock the sending of grain and if you do not return to sowing, because this is the time of sowing and it is clear that, if you now bomb and do not sow, in September something will hardly be harvested. President Draghi, you said it would be nice for Biden to ask Putin... You ask. You ask for the release of ships, the unblocking of ports and the return to export and production of wheat and corn to African countries. I am convinced that a positive response will come to your request. [[Applause]] Be a promoter of this small, great gesture. I have heard you, also in this House, rightly say that you are proud of the Italian community, the Italian families and the Italian, Catholic and non-Catholic associations, who are opening their doors and their parishes to 116,000 women and children fleeing Ukraine, who are our children and sisters. Attention, however: these are women and children who run away from real bombs and real wars, which are absolutely not to be confused with those that the war brings us to Italy and do not run away from any war. [[Applause]] We do not put on the same level who escapes from the real war and who the real war brings us to Italy. [[Applause]] So one: ask for the release of grain production and exports directly to Russia. You said that dialogue with Russia must be kept open: that is right. In my opinion, there may be a positive answer. Two: for Expo 2030 are candidates Moscow, Odessa and Rome. President Draghi, try to make this attempt: ask Moscow to withdraw its candidacy and support that of Odessa as the venue of Expo 2030. I am convinced that it could have a positive response and it would be a beautiful gesture of relaxation for the future of this country to be rebuilt. [[Comments. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u32	Senator Mirabelli, please. We want to listen, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u33	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Three: a ceasefire not vague, but forty-eight hours with Italy, France, Germany and the Holy See ready to be guarantors of the start of negotiations that are not there today. Ask for a forty-eight-hour ceasefire to sit around a table and I am convinced that it will be listened carefully. [[Applause]] May Italy promote peace and dialogue. I do not say this because he called me Putin this night (I see the smiles of someone on the left); I say this because peace is not achieved by going to the square, waving the flag of peace. Peace is achieved by working seriously, with all the people you have to work with. [[Applause]] As for the energy issue, I hope it is over and I thank Mr Cingolani for his balance, unlike some other minister sitting in those benches, who should relax diplomatic relations and who instead gives animal to someone with whom we will then have to sit around a table, which does not seem to me the best of the diplomatic initiative. [[Applause]] I'll be shortsighted, but if you want to talk to one and give him the dog, it's hard for him to sit down and talk to you. I would like to thank Minister Cingolani for his balance, because at last the professionals of the no (no to the thermo-towers, no to the nuclear, no to the gas, no to the coal, no to everything) have understood that without an energy independence we will always be in the service and dependencies of someone. May this be for Italy the occasion of yes. [[Applause]] We need clean energy, ours, fast and cheap. An example: on this Thursday morning, while we are here, there are scientists from the United States, the European Union (including Italy), Russia and China working on the ITER (International thermonuclear experimental reactor) project in France, which is the great project for a nuclear fusion reactor: they are the greatest demonstration of how science, sport, art, poetry and culture should be used to unite peoples, not to turn them away. [[Applause]] Do we really think that ejecting a singer or a disabled sportsman brings peace closer? President Draghi, I urge you to move forward with words of peace, balance and mediation. It has been the role of Italy for seventy years. You rightly say that we are moving in a general context: it is right, but someone before you in foreign policy - which is fundamental - dared, on both fronts (Craxi, Aldo Moro, Prodi, Berlusconi). Italy came before others and predicted, before others, how to get out of the conflict with a proud position in the West, but without closing the doors of the dialogue: to reopen the ports to export wheat, to support the candidacy of Odessa as center of Expo 2030 and a ceasefire of forty-eight hours, with Italy to guide a Europe in which we believe, but free and sovereign, to depend of nobody. I repeat: a free and sovereign Europe, dependent on no one. [[Applause.]] You will see that, rather than talking about weapons, we will talk - by the end of this month, hopefully - about peace, which will save lives in Ukraine, as in Russia, and will save - I repeat because for someone it does not matter, but for me it does - the jobs of Italian women and men who are willing to sacrifice for peace, but who deserve help, attention and respect. Peace immediately means saving the work of Italian workers and workers. Who wants war, talks about war and would like to send weapons for the next six months in September go out of the factories that are closing to tell those mothers and those Italian family fathers for whom the war means no more eating. [[Applause]] Peace and work are now possible, President! [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u34	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u35	President Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, we are happy to see you here today talking about these issues; indeed, allow me to invite you, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, to come to Parliament more often to talk about these matters, not because we need a confrontation with Members, but because Members here represent the Italian people, and if we really want to achieve that social cohesion that you often talk about, President, and if we want to strengthen the confidence of citizens in the institutions, we must also use these instruments: sharing, transparency of information and participation in choices. This confrontation is necessary, Mr President, especially because we are in a government of national unity, governed by a transversal majority which unfortunately, especially recently, is not always correct, and we saw it yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Emigration. This confrontation is necessary because we are in an extraordinary historical moment, which comes after a pandemic crisis, when our economy was already struggling to rise again for the blows linked to it. It is therefore necessary that we compare ourselves, because the scenarios change continuously, from month to month, from day to day, from hour to hour. You too, Mr Draghi, have said this very precisely: the energy crisis is now following a food crisis and this will probably also be the wheat war, because Ukraine is the barn of Europe and some countries in Africa and the Middle East are already suffering this food crisis, which will probably be followed by a migration crisis. And what will be, President, the country most affected by this umpteenth crisis? The answer is simple: it will be Italy once again. What, then, is the strategy that the Government intends to implement? What is the vision for building the future not only of Ukraine, but also of our country? It is clear that we are concerned that we are constantly undermining measures that are essential for us to restart this country's economy (I am thinking of the superbonus and all investments in ecological transition). President Draghi, the citizens need to be informed and we would have liked to have had this discussion before your visit to the United States: not because a bilateral meeting is planned for a transition to Parliament, but because it is essential for us to give this signal of cohesion between the Government and Parliament and of synergy between all political forces. [[Applause]] During the pandemic, the President of the Council was here almost every two weeks. If he had not had that strong investiture on the part of Parliament, probably the innovative breakthrough that took place at that time in Europe, which led for the first time to use instruments such as shared common debt, there would not have been. Mr President, it is not acceptable that, in three months, we have only talked about these issues once. And the time we voted on that resolution we strongly vindicate it. We have never called it into question because, thanks to that resolution, we supported Ukraine in exercising the right to self-defense enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Now, however, we must build phase two together. How do we want to build this phase two, President Draghi? Continuing to talk about what weapons are to be sent? In whose interest? And how are we going to avoid the risk of a third nuclear world war? Or do we really want this stage two to start, by strengthening the negotiations, by putting in place measures that are needed to avoid the recession? Italian families want peace. Businesses want peace. Italian society wants peace. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we very much appreciated your words to President Biden, because you said that the Italians want peace soon and that Italy and Europe must play a central role in this diplomatic phase. Of course, the stage of diplomatic negotiations will be more complex and longer than that of sending weapons, but this is the direction. We don't have to wait for the last bomb to fall to start the dialogue. Mr President, the Movimento 5 Stars has no doubt. Now is the time to build Ukraine's future within a framework of European solidarity, but it is also the time for Italy to disown warlike positions that do not belong to it, that have never belonged to it. We are a country that was born from the ruins of the Second World War and that has repudiated war even within its own Constitution. Therefore, we work together to get a ceasefire, a ceasefire at once, to start the peace conference that we asked for as early as mid-March, to be held here perhaps in Rome and to involve, in addition to Russia and Ukraine, the other Member States of the United Nations Security Council (i.e. the United States, China, France and Great Britain), together with the countries that Ukraine has indicated as guarantors of its own security, including Italy, Germany, Turkey and Israel. President Draghi, we really ask you to build this path together. Probably a new opportunity to talk about these issues will be the next extraordinary European Council, which will take place on 30 and 31 May. In that case, too, there is no passage in Parliament, but I think it is appropriate to build together the strategy and proposals that the Italian Government intends to bring to that European Council, in which, as you said, we will discuss Repower EU, strategies to deal with the energy crisis, how to help Ukraine and therefore how to really continue and plan this second phase and start the common European defence that we were the first to invoke. We believe that a move in Parliament to build this moment together could really be a strong signal and would certainly give the government an ever stronger and more cross-cutting mandate from all political forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u39	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-Iac (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))). Mr President, I would like to remind the House of the tragic events that took place yesterday in the city of L'Aquila, where a fatality...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u40	Senator Quagliariello, this intervention can be carried out at the end of the session, not at this moment, because we have an agenda to finish before; in the end, I will gladly give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u41	Mr President, I think we should observe a minute's silence and ask the Presidency to do so. A child died, one of those children remembered today by the President of the Council Draghi, and I consider it an act of sensitivity towards a city that has suffered so much that the Presidency takes this gesture into consideration. I put it back to you, and I believe that this is the time, between one item on the agenda. Thank you for your sensitivity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u42	Senator, thank you for your request, but I find it absolutely inappropriate to make an assessment of the degree of pain that you feel on these occasions. After that, I invite the House to observe a minute's recollection; I would have done so at the end of the sitting, but we do not use episodes that are tragedies to make a comparison between one and the other. [[Applause. The President stands up and with him the whole Assembly, which observes a minute's recollection.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2317. The rapporteur, Senator De Lucia, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u44	Mr President, bill No 2317, celebrating the 100th anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti, intends to commemorate and celebrate, a hundred years after his abduction and murder, the figure and thought of Giacomo Matteotti, the socialist deputy victim of fascist violence. As the explanatory report recalls to the bill, Matteotti was not the first and will not be the last parliamentary (before him, Giuseppe Di Vagno and, after him, Giovanni Amendola) to be killed by squadrismo for having defended the fate of the last and freedom without other adjectives. Yet, the definitive transformation of the already illiberal regime into an authentic dictatorship dates back to its death, after the long months of difficulties in which the Mussolini Government had fought. His kidnapping and murder, committed on June 10, 1924, followed the secession of the Aventine. Months after the discovery of his corpse, which took place on August 16, Mussolini, with a speech in Montecitorio on January 3, 1925, declared the Matteotti question and arranged the end of the freedom of the press and the marginalization of oppositions. This is precisely the date that is indicated as watersheds in the history of Italy, marking the beginning of the dictatorship. To remember Giacomo Matteotti (a congressman, a politician and a scholar who interpreted the highest feelings of Italy and did not want to bow to the nascent dictatorship) wants to have therefore above all the meaning of a warning to defend freedom and democracy always and in any case, a sort of exercise of civil pedagogy. Article 1 of the draft law in question (which is at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Nencini, but which the whole Commission - Group leaders and members of the majority - has signed with conviction) provides that the celebrations are aimed at promoting and enhancing the knowledge and study of his work and his thought in the national and international context. Article 2, in regulating the initiatives for the centenary of Matteotti's death, states that the State recognizes the projects of promotion, research, protection and dissemination of knowledge of life, work, thought and places more closely linked to the figure of Giacomo Matteotti. These projects can also be carried out in collaboration with public entities, associations, foundations and cultural institutes, through initiatives that can be mentioned in celebration activities, national and international conferences, educational-training and cultural initiatives, to promote in Italy and abroad the knowledge of life, thought and work of Giacomo Matteotti. The initiatives in question can be mentioned in the promotion, also through the award of special scholarships aimed at university students and secondary schools of second degree, of historical research and study with regard to the life, thought and work of Giacomo Matteotti, with particular reference to his activities in trade union, as local administrator, scholar and parliamentary, as well as to the historical period between the First World War and his death; in the collection, preservation, restoration, maintenance and digitalization of documents related to the activity of Matteotti, as well as in the publication of new materials and in the promotion of educational and training initiatives, through the direct involvement of schools and the entire national territory, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education; in the realization of events and any other initiative for the achievement of the purposes of the bill, to be carried out primarily in the municipalities of Fratta Polesine, Villamarzana, Boara Polesine, Rovigo, Messina, Ferrara, Varazze and Rome. These are additional initiatives compared to the award of the annual prize entitled to Matteotti set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Article 4 provides for the assignment to the Casa Museo Giacomo Matteotti of Frassa Polesine, its birthplace, of a particular economic endowment not only for the promotion of events, but also to support maintenance and restoration necessary for the public use of the same museum and for the collection, cataloguing and digitization of documents related to its activity. It is also expected that private subjects who devote financial contributions, works or other material to the House Museum will benefit from tax relief measures according to the decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance. The above projects will all be selected on the basis of a public call by an independent body, identified by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u45	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u48	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, my statement will be a very quick one, not out of disrespect, but because this memory of the hundred years since the murder of Giacomo Matteotti has already been mentioned by this House on a number of occasions in a much more effective way than I can, so I simply want to remember how, in fact, that assassination was the time of the beginning of the fascist dictatorship in our country. The assassination of Giacomo Matteotti was that of a person who represented one of the main opponents to that nascent dark moment of our Italian history. He was a supporter of the values of democracy, freedom of opinion and legality which then, a few years later, represented the founding members of the new Republican Democratic Constitution. 11.26 a.m. (LANIECE follow-up). I would like to point out on the one hand, unfortunately, the topicality of these values which I recalled earlier, namely democracy and freedom, at a historic moment when we unfortunately see the aggression of one nation against another, using the violence of weapons to resolve political issues, and the democracies to oppose the idea of overwhelming the strongest against the weakest by arms and force, the consequences of which unfortunately are always borne by the weakest. With this very topical thought in memory of the hundred years since the murder of Giacomo Matteotti, I announce the vote in favour of this bill, small but important, by the Group For the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u51	ANGRISANI (CAL-ALT-PC-IDV). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 June 1924 the Member and Secretary of the Socialist Party Matteotti left home on foot to go to Montecitorio. On the lungotevere, waiting for him, is stopped a car with some individuals on board, who push him into the car, rapendolo. The kidnapping first and then the murder of Matteotti have marked the political and institutional history of our country in an indelible way. From that date, fascism tightens the links, progressively bans freedom of thought and freedom of association and begins to become a regime, marking the beginning of the darkest period in Italy's history. The six articles of the bill for the celebrations of the hundredth anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti are therefore a necessary tribute not only to the personal values that Matteotti paid dearly with the most precious good, life, but also to the values of freedom of thought and expression. Let us treasure it: today this freedom is often called into question. Giacomo Matteotti - as we all know - did not die in vain at all; this is demonstrated not only by this bill, but above all by the national collective memory. The task of the legislator, a hundred years after his premature death, is to increase public support for this collective memory and to support it in every form, so as to make more and more involved and aware of what is happening, especially young people and the whole of civil society. Yes, young people, with the acquisition of awareness, can be free to choose and participate actively in social life. The initiatives in this legislative proposal are a good way forward. The incessant political action taken by Matteotti against the dictatorship represents, now and then, all of us. The approval in the various institutional passages of this bill, which promotes and enhances the knowledge and study of Matteotti's works and thoughts, represents a strong signal of unity, which reiterates once again how our Republic inexorably and firmly condemns the fascist regime and all the abuses that were committed in that twenty years. Matteotti represents an indelible symbol of the fight against fascism and corruption in the Mossolini regime and represents the honor of free Italians who were slaughtered and imprisoned in the name of freedom and anti-fascistism. For all that is represented by the late Member and Socialist Secretary and in the name of his sacrifice, I therefore announce our Group's vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u54	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are celebrating two facts, both dramatic, but of a different tragic intensity. We celebrate the kidnapping and murder of Giacomo Matteotti, but at the same time the first - I emphasize - true choral reaction to fascism, which was on June 27, 1924 with the secession of the Aventine. I repeat: it was the first true anti-fascist choral reaction to Mussolini and his regime, which had consolidated with the elections of April 6 of that year. The two things go together, because the story that has been told to us, that as fascism is born antifascism, can be considered a kind of blasphemy in the church. The facts did not go that way, because this is the first act and the first rule - and I thank the rapporteur and the whole Commission, whom I cordially greet, for having written it - with which we remember a figure (not a hero, but a man) who made free choices. At the same time, we remember a fact that follows the abduction of Matteotti, but is prior to his death. I have always thought that freedom is, rather than a title of favor, a kind of obstacle, an obstacle, because being free means making decisions, it means choosing and choosing means taking risks. People don't like to take risks on themselves. For this reason Dostoevsky is right, when in the chapter "The great inquisitor" screams, having before him the son of God: you betrayed us; you gave us freedom, but we do not know what to do with freedom! The story of Matteotti could be enclosed inside this epitaph: a tribute to freedom at a time when freedom, either on the left or in a certain right of time, was absolutely honored and honored. It is the reason why Matteotti is alone, accompanied by very few in the course of his path; at the beginning he is alone, two liberals will follow him, both killed, Gobetti and Giovanni Amendola, father of Giorgio Amendola, leader of the Italian Communist Party, along with a handful of Social Reformists, certainly Don Sturzo, and part of a left, even maximalist, but who did not think absolutely like him. The story of his gesture, which is not the single heroic gesture, is that of a period that was born in 1919 and ends in 1924. There is continuity and there is a second factor, which we often abhor today and which is called consistency. Courage needs consistency and to make that choice in coherence, especially at a time when reformism was considered an abandoned dog and reformists were considered heretics to get rid of, it was decidedly complicated. There is a third consideration, President: then and also today, in different terms, because we are not in a regime that can in any way be painted as a pre-fascist (it has absolutely nothing to do with it), at some moments and fringes in the history of peoples, especially when economic and social crises are added, we are overwhelmed by Caesar's attraction. Caesar's attraction is that for which it is thought that man alone in command solves the problems more quickly than with the slowness of parliamentary democracies. At a time when such a path is being taken, we are taking the path of the crisis of parliamentary democracy, without whether or not. When this road is taken, those who sit on these benches, even if they think differently, have a duty to intervene, to plan reactions and to block those who intend to follow that road. Then it was the crisis of the liberal state and the war that produced the effects we know. Italy, unlike what is written today, for a long period was happily fascist, not the opposite; it was happily fascist and in 1924, despite the cheating and everything else, voted in mass for Mussolini and the fascist listone, and those who opposed remained a clear minority. In conclusion, thanking for your attention, I stress that, when we celebrate something and remember the centenary of a person, a fact or an event, we do it for two reasons: because we remember a fact that the Republic considers positive, but also because we identify ourselves in the figures we consider positive. If we identify ourselves in those figures, we have a duty to act accordingly. And now I say, in conclusion, my blasphemy in the church: we discussed until recently Ukraine and war in Ukraine (and I share the position of President Draghi and his Government). A tribute to parliamentary democracy is also to discuss in this House, not by means of instruments that lawyers consider to be a subscale of law (I speak of interministerial decrees), of war, of what to do and of how to position the government, because there are evolutions. I repeat and stress that I agree with the position of the Government, but the place where decisions are taken is not the subscale of law. I am a historian, not a jurist, but I know well on the scale of values where the interministerial decree stands. This is the place where decisions are made and I say it in the end, otherwise it is better to vote against the celebration of the hundred years since Matteotti's abduction and death. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u57	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, first of all we want to announce as the Brothers of Italy Group the vote in favour of this bill to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti, who will fall on 10 June 2024. When he was killed, Matteotti was only thirty-nine years old, but behind him already had a long political commitment, started over twenty years before and lived surely with courage and passion, which had earned him the nickname of "Tempesta." In fact, he had very often taken uncomfortable and difficult positions. During the First World War, he expressed himself so strongly against Italy's participation in the conflict that he was sentenced to the border in Sicily from 1916 to 1918. Back in political activity, since 1919 he has been among the hardest opponents of fascism, of which he often denounced violent actions. In 1920 and 1921, as part of the Italian Socialist Party, he opposed the communist faction, which had not yet given birth to a party on its own. In 1922, a few days before the march on Rome, he was expelled from the party together with Filippo Turati, Giuseppe Modigliani, Claudio Treves and others, all accused by the maximalists of breaking the principle of non-cooperation with the so-called bourgeois parties, for having participated in the consultations of the king for the formation of the new government. The expulsions founded the United Socialist Party, of which Matteotti became national secretary. Elected in 1919 and 1921, it was also elected in the April 1924 elections with the new electoral law that awarded a majority prize to the list that was the most voted on provided it exceeded 25% of the valid votes. The results published by the Ministry of the Interior attributed 60 percent of the votes to the national list led by Benito Mussolini, which included not only fascist candidates, but also several liberals such as Orlando, Salandra, former popular, Catholic and many others. On May 30, Giacomo Matteotti intervened in the Chamber of Deputies stating that no Italian elector had found himself free to decide with his will because of the intimidation of the fascist militias during the stage of presentation of the lists, during the electoral campaign and also in the seats. As a result, he stated that it was doubtful whether the national list had obtained that 25 percent necessary for the majority prize and therefore the election of his candidates should not be validated. Eleven days later, on the 10th of June, the day on which his new intervention was expected in the Chamber, which had left his home on the lungotevere, he was forcibly loaded into a car by a team of five men, part of a secret fascist group linked to the Viminal who had chosen the name of Ceka, that is, that of the Soviet political police. According to the reconstructions, Matteotti continued to defend himself with great vigor trying to get rid of himself and one of the kidnappers fatally struck him with a dagger. The five ended up burying the body briefly not far from Rome, where it was found casually two months later. Amerigo Dumini, who was in charge of the team, was arrested two weeks later. From a political point of view, the affair put Prime Minister Mussolini in great difficulty for months, who was referred to by many as the principal, who came out of it with the address to the House of 3 January 1925, in which he stated that he assumed every responsibility for what had happened. From the judicial point of view, in 1926 Dumini and two other men on the team were sentenced to four years, three of which were cancelled by an amnesty, for preterintentional murder. In 1947 a new trial was held, in which Dumini was sentenced to life imprisonment for premeditated murder. Six years later, however, he was released, by virtue of the amnesty promoted and wanted by Palmiro Togliatti, head of the Communist Party. The teaching that must be drawn from the figure and the story of Giacomo Matteotti - apart from the refusal and condemnation of violence in the political confrontation, wherever it comes from, and the importance of respect for democratic rules, which we believe to be obvious, but which is always good to reiterate - is that of always defending the right, which for a parliamentarians, for a political exponent, is also a duty, of denouncing the distortions and criticizing what is thought to endanger the institutions (in that case, the regularity of the elections), of expressing their own beliefs on what is the good of the nation and its institutions and of criticizing facts and people who are believed to oppose them. We hope that all this will emerge in studying and celebrating the figure of Giacomo Matteotti on the centenary of his death. I would like to conclude by quoting a sentence from James Matteotti's dramatic speech of May 30, 1924. To the President of the House, who invited him to continue his speech, despite the interruptions of many opponents, but to do so prudently, he replied: I ask to speak not prudently, nor imprudently, but verbally. Here, the parliamentarians must always speak as such, expressing their beliefs about what is the interest of the nation and its fellow citizens. This is our right and even more our duty, which Matteotti has impersonated to the extreme consequences. For these reasons, I repeat the vote in favour of the parliamentary group Fratelli d'Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u60	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this bill, for which I would like to thank the proposers, the rapporteurs and the Commission. I think it is an important measure and I will try to say why, recalling clearly that the murder of Matteotti in 1924, under the mandate of the fascist regime, represented a turning point, because from that moment on the fascist regime turned into a real dictatorship. The thing that seems important to me is not only the recognition of the history and quality of politicians, of a great politician. As my colleague Mr Nencini said, with whom I agree very much, Matteotti was among the very first and perhaps, in the initial phase, almost the only one to understand the risks and consequences of fascism. He had the courage to denounce him with great sharpness. Speaking to the House on May 30, 1924, after the elections, he made a very heavy and very hard complaint about fascism and electoral fraud and concluded his speech: I did my speech. Now prepare the funeral speech for me. He was deeply aware of what was happening and of the choice to denounce the frauds and the fascist regime, which he would have to pay directly. It wasn't a heroic act, or rather, I don't want to read it like that. It was an act of great responsibility for all, even for the many who applauded the fascist regime in Piazza Venezia. After all, without Matteotti and without Amendola, who also paid with his life his opposition to the regime, without those university professors - for the truth very few - who did not accept to take the card of the fascist party, without these testimonies, perhaps it would not have happened what happened afterwards, that is to say the awareness of the people. From this point of view, as the previous speaker reminded me, Mussolini then claimed responsibility in 1925: If Fascism was a criminal association, I am the leader of this criminal association. At that time politics was less swamped and the confrontation was tighter. I would add that this measure is also very important for another reason, and that is why I want to close my speech. I hope that even with the celebrations for the hundredth anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti we can make a reflection on what I consider a very serious problem today and - alas - absolutely little addressed, if not even discarded, in our public debate. I am referring to the crisis of democracy. Today we are living and we are in a dynamic: in so many parts of the world this debate is being held, unfortunately not here; I think this is a problem. Clearly, I do not want any misunderstandings from this point of view. The situation of 1919 and of that historical period is certainly not that of today, but the processes of innovation, up to the Ukrainian crisis and war, pose substantial questions: how do we face this crisis of legitimacy? This is what Senator Nencini was talking about, citing the Caesar effect. Let us remember, before the Ukrainian crisis, the debate according to which in China they soon decided, because there is no democracy there and therefore democracy has costs, such as slowness. But let us remember that we were not born yesterday and that our debate cannot fail to have deep roots. It would be a really high way of honoring a courageous politician, with the idea of democracy within him, if we could have a discussion about the centenary of Matteotti's death by leaving the clichés, the rhetoric. When I hear that this or that democracy is defending itself, I say: be careful, let us try to understand where we are going, if there are no intermediate bodies and if the parties are in a deep crisis. I do not yet know a quality expression of democracy - with regard to Article 49 of the Constitution - without parties. From this point of view, we must start again to study, to build political cultures. Today President Renzi rightly quoted De Gasperi and his extraordinary courage when he said: I feel that everything, except for your personal courtesy, is against me, but there was a political project and a political culture there. We have to make an effort. If this law can be a contribution to this journey, live this law and live the courage of Giacomo Matteotti. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u63	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PD Group, I warmly welcome this legislative initiative. I would like to thank President Nencini and the Committee on Education, Cultural Heritage and Tourism. A hundred years would be enough to condemn almost anyone to oblivion, if it were not, in the case of Matteotti, one of the most shining figures of the twentieth century Italian politician, whose life, as has been recalled, and whose straight back raise a moving admiration and hope in a better humanity. Matteotti was not simply a great socialist companion, to whom the martyrdom for the cause of freedom offered immortal dignity, but was and is one of the great fathers of our Democratic Republic. It was for its almost solitary opposition to fascism, certainly, in the name of democratic values and the legitimacy of the parliamentary Chambers, but also for having exposed international links and questionable oil affairs behind the rise and the fascist affirmation. The adamantine hardness of Matteotti's beliefs is a model and a warning to all of us and this despite the proven attempts to erase some of the contents related to his massacre and his intransigent struggle against fascism. Politics without ethics and without indispensable and non-negotiable values becomes mere management, an empty box. For this reason we will continue to celebrate Matteotti for a long time, for the model that can be for all of us and for young Italians, even in a season characterized by passions off and disinterest in public affairs. In conclusion, I would like to recall a pertinent episode that concerned young Sandro Pertini, who, after having lived the prison, the border and still the prison, after the victorious partisan war, wanted to make the first symbolic gesture in Italy of 1945 just liberated. He decided that his first initiative of renewed freedom should be held in Fratta Polesine, the birthplace - of 2,500 souls - of Giacomo Matteotti, where the same is buried. Pertini began the rally screaming at the microphone: James, James, we are here for you! I talk about it this way, passionately, because that episode has always moved me. Pertini meant that the rediscovered liberation from Nazifascism had its root in Fratta Polesine, in the sacrifice of Giacomo Matteotti. I, here and now, in the Upper House in our Parliament, therefore in other places and in other times, would like to shout that none of us has forgotten it, and that Matteotti is still and always the example to follow, a model of courage, ethics and freedom, but also a warning - as authoritative colleagues have recalled - to rebuild a democratic representation system and a policy finally with capital P. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u66	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank those who wanted the measure to be examined. The first consideration that comes to mind, listening to the speeches of my previous colleagues, is what Matteotti would say if he were in this Chamber or in the Chamber of Deputies today, in our times, in front of what was evoked - for example, by my colleague Errani - as a crisis of democracy. If we trace some of the quotations that have been made today, some exits of extraordinary evocative force - kill me, not the ideas that are in me - if uttered today, would probably be conceived as a product of Law No. 180 of 1978, the Basic Law. I say this provocatively, because language has changed since then, because times are different and because we live in a time when references are others and also a character and a figure like that of Matteotti today are celebrated unanimously from right and left in this House. Then it wasn't possible. In May 1924 he denounced the electoral fraud in solitude, almost invisible even to the same colleagues in some cases, and poorly endured by the left of that time. Defined by Gramsci and Togliatti as a partner, Matteotti was the one who in 1922, together with Turati, gave life to the United Socialist Party. He was practically the one who, together with the reformist part of the Socialist Party, had anticipated the so-called subversivism, which was not only directed, in ruthless criticism, to what the regime would be, but also to that part of the left who wanted an absolute dependence on the values of 1917 and the October Revolution. In fact, Matteotti said that socialism has always distinguished itself from communism. In fact, there is a fil rouge, allow me the banality of the expression, which unites Giacomo Matteotti, Turati, 1947, Saragat and the division of Palazzo Barberini, Nenni, Bettino Craxi and the history of the best socialist, reformist and liberal traditions of this country. The socialist and liberal union was the one that allowed for a development, a dimension and a precise place after the war on this country in the Atlantic Alliance, the one we have talked about today. I proceed quickly, because I realize that I could touch topics that now belong to a remote past, that interests us little, but I can not fail to remember a definition that Matteotti gave Piero Gobetti, in the "liberal revolution" and also in the book he dedicated to the murder of Matteotti: an aristocratic for loneliness. What did you mean by that definition? Not that it was an aristocratic birth. He was the son of one of a rich bourgeois family from Polesine, where there was absolute poverty. And the man was a lawyer fighting for the rights of the humblest classes. But there was also in that definition the character of man. That solitude was a subversivism compared to the dominant culture of the left then, which would have been maximalist and certainly not autonomous, but dependent on Moscow. Matteotti meant, to me and to the idea that I made it, the figure of a martyr of the Republic. The way he was murdered, I think, is an expression of one of the most authentic cowardices you can imagine. Someone first rebuilt also the various procedural phases that marked the rediscovery of the truth about the seizure first and the assassination then, perpetrated with a stab wound at the heart of Giacomo Matteotti. These things are now part of an acquired past, let's look ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that democracy makes sense, as we have heard today in the words absolutely measured and precise location of our country uttered by the President of the Council of Dragons. Excuse me if I have gone from one subject to another, but I believe that there is an ideal continuity between some historical figures and some current and contemporary figures, who build and make Italy one of the great democracies of the world and one of the cradles of the democracy of the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u69	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we think of Giacomo Matteotti, we think of a free man, a politician who was not afraid to denounce fraud and fascist violence during the April 1924 elections, paying for this act of courage with his own life. At the end of the famous speech given to the Chamber of Deputies in May of the same year, the politician was aware that that courage would lead him to die and it was precisely so. The secretary of the then United Socialist Party will be kidnapped and found dead on August 16, in a forest about thirty kilometers north of the capital. "Kill me too, but the idea that is in me you will never kill her, these were the words spoken by Giacomo Matteotti in the last speech to the Chamber; words that animated and gave strength to the powerful desire for freedom of the opponents of fascism, so much so that during the Resistance the Socialist Party will constitute the Matteotti brigades, in which he participated as leader Sandro Pertini. The example that Giacomo Matteotti left to the next generations was very powerful. For this reason it is important to continue to remember his actions and his thought so as not to disperse his inheritance. The bill of celebration has not only a historical value, but also helps to keep alive the memory of a fundamental figure in Italian political life, but above all an emblem of freedom. Of freedom, unfortunately, one appreciates the importance only when one loses it, otherwise one takes it for granted, as a work of art that, by virtue of having it before his eyes, is not appreciated. In recent years, our freedom has been severely put to the test, first by the pandemic, which has locked us in the house and then has forbidden us any social and even work activities, now by the war in Ukraine, which makes us witness impotent overwhelmment among peoples even on live television. An infamous war that kills women and children and leaves everything around the desert of destruction, while we are forced to hear truths of convenience in countries where it is impossible to express one's own free thought. It is an almost unreal and incomprehensible situation, if one thinks of all the initiatives promoted after the last world war so that certain things do not happen again, so that the memory of heinous facts and history teach us not to decay into war and violence anymore. The content of this bill must also be a warning to us, not to fall into the same mistakes, not to stifle the freedom of others. This is why today it is very important and necessary to continue to keep alive the memory of figures like that of Giacomo Matteotti, a giant of freedom that fought against the violence and the overpowering dictatorship, so that the new generations, but also we, could live without being oppressed by power and fully savour the scent of freedom. I thank the proposer of this bill, the President of the 7th Commission, all the signatories and all the members of the Commission, and with this announcement the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u72	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief, because after the agreement of all the groups in this House, I do not think there is a need to support, with a further justification, the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. I am convinced that this is a moment to remember in this House. Many of us will be able to participate, in the next three years, in a series of events that will start from today to celebrate in a correct and convinced way the figure of Giacomo Matteotti. Probably, if we're all sitting in here today, we owe it to him, too. This is therefore the right tribute to a hero of our country, whom I hope he will never be alone again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u73	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I would like to thank my fellow Members for the content of the speeches which have been very high and appropriate to this occasion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u76	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will surely have heard from the national press, on 7 May, the famous Neapolitan physician Benedetto Pepe, national coordinator of the Independent Union for Health Emergency Emergency (SAUES), already nominated with the Movimento 5 Stars in the local elections held in 2019 in Ischia, his second home since always, where - in Perrone - he spent part of his time, since the fifties, with his parents, Antonio and Imma, and his brothers, Roberto and Giuliana, forming a loved and deeply respected family. He then left us a great psychiatrist, first-level medical director of ASL Napoli 1, esteemed by his colleagues in the mental health department of Via Adriano and loved by his patients who poured out to hundreds on the day of his last greeting at the Church of Sorrows at Pigna. A cardiac arrest took him away too soon, tearing him away from the arms of his wife Angela Aiello, for which he hung out in an incredible way, and of the beloved sons Luca, Antonio (collaborator for years here in the Senate) and Daniele, who graduated precisely in these days in psychology and to whom I wish my personal best. Could he be saved? According to Paolo Ficco, president of the union, yes, if only the ambulance had taken less minutes. And here there is an important debate: if there is one thing you should never cut, it is public health. [[Applause]] A densely inhabited territory such as Campania needs important investments in this respect, especially in favour of 118. At this point, I can only share a proposal from the SAUES, of which Benedetto was among the most active trade unionists, having participated in all institutional events and tables held from North to South of the country, namely to extend the obligation of endowment of defibrillators in the places of aggregation and also on the cars of the Forces of Order. I remember that cardiac arrest causes more than 60,000 victims every year and that the only chance of salvation in case of arrest is to have a defibrillator immediately available. Only recently the obligation to provide the life-saving instrument for public administrations was triggered, but it is clear that legislation should be extended to all major public structures and places of aggregation, increasing first aid courses - for example - in schools, condominiums and universities. How many lives could a defibrillator be saved in condominiums, shops or restaurants? Thousands and probably also that of Benedetto, to whom on behalf of the Senate of the Republic I extend a heartfelt thanks for the medical service provided to protect the weakest and the last and for having tried hard to improve the quality of 118. Ladies and gentlemen, heroes wear not only their coats, but also their coats and phonendoscopes. Thank you, Benedetto. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u79	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, tomorrow will take place ten years from 20 May, the anniversary of the earthquake in Emilia and in the Po Valley. After ten years, much of the private reconstruction has been done with regard to both companies and housing, but it would be a mistake to think that it is over. By the choice of the Commissioner for Reconstruction, the easiest practices to get them out of the way quickly were preferred. In this way, however, in the municipalities most seriously affected, located mainly in the northern part of the Province of Modena and in the nearby localities of the Reggiano and the Mantua, in which are located many of the buildings severely damaged, the most complex interventions to be carried out have been postponed for the last time. For the latter I tried to do something. Today in the House, with the final approval of the energy decree, my amendment in favour of agricultural companies that have remained behind and still have to complete the reconstruction. With this rule, they buy more time. To date, however, about 15% of the private sector's work on housing and businesses has not yet been completed. Visiting the crater area, you can still notice many construction sites in progress and many cranes of construction companies. Unfortunately, today, with the increases in the field of construction, all the yards of our earthquake are again firm, because the contracts already signed, having as reference lists with prices that go back many years, do not allow the construction companies to cope with the works. The reconstruction in Emilia is therefore incomplete and blocked today. My appeal today is to the Emilia-Romagna Region, to make new, more courageous decisions. We call for legal lists to be adjusted to today's prices and for the contribution granted to be adjusted, which could have been sufficient ten years ago, but is no longer adequate today. We must all make an effort to find a solution, because our citizens who have suffered the damage from the earthquake and have remained for the last few years must not suffer, in addition to delays, also unequal treatment compared to those who have managed to complete the reconstruction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u82	LANNUTTI (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Madam President, the Co-operative Credit Bank of Crotonese (BCC) has repeatedly been censored by Bankitalia, starting from a first inspection intervention from 25 May to 29 July 2016, due to inadequate conduct of the Board of Directors, conditioned by decision-making processes that are not always transparent and affected by the aliatority of the criteria applied in the field of anti-money laundering. At the end of the investigation, carried out by DIA di Catanzaro (May 15, 2017), it was found that of the 157 persons subject to investigations or measures of the judicial authority almost half were customers of the bank. In 2017 and the following three years, other investigations by Catanzaro's Public Prosecutor against organised crime involved 453 individuals, 194 of whom were bank clients. The former Director General of the BCC of Crotonese, Cosimo Puglia, participated actively in the administration of the bank, as head of the executive for the two years 2020-2021; so, it cannot be considered foreign to the unfavourable judgment of the Bank of Italy following those inspection interventions. Nevertheless, this director was awarded by the Central Institute of Cooperative Credit (ICCrea Banca), to which belongs the BCC of Crotonese, with the appointment as director general of another important BCC, Bank 2021, already Bank of Cilento of Sassano and Vallo of Diano and Lucania, appointment, this, arranged by the Iccrea leader, with the task, in particular, of improving the anti-recycling service of the bank. This can not arouse surprise and even dismay between the many members and the clientele of the bank itself, who has learned the news of the tormented and disturbing events of money laundering in which the BCC of Crotonese was involved, such as to provoke the severe interventions of the DDA and the Bank of Italy, culminated in the drastic measure of the court of Catanzaro with which the judicial administration was ordered. Madam President, I shall finish. This is really a country upside down, where the chores are rewarded and the honest persecuted. One person suspected of recycling how another bank manager can do it? [[Applause]] I have already tabled a parliamentary question and I hope that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance will take action to respond. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u83	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-435.ana.u84	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.23 a.m.
