ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.38 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 7 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u3	I communicate that on 7 July 2022 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance (Law No 85 of 7 July 2022 on urgent provisions on motorway concessions and infrastructure and on speeding up administrative judgements on works or interventions financed by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan) (2667).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u4	I communicate that on 11 July 2022 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law with amendments to Decree-Law No 50 of 17 May 2022 on urgent measures concerning national energy policies, business productivity and attraction of investments, as well as on social policies and the Ukrainian crisis" (2668).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for the Assembly's work until 21 July. At today's sitting, the debate will be closed and the rapporteurs' replies on the reform of the Senate Rules of Procedure will take place following the constitutional revision concerning the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament. This afternoon, at 5.30 p.m., the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will meet to examine the amendments pursuant to Rule 167 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. Follow-up to the debate on the document will continue tomorrow, starting at 9.30 a.m. If the votes on the amendments are not completed at 12.30 a.m., the sitting will be suspended and resumed at 13.30 a.m. Also tomorrow, at 4.30 p.m., the motions on the crisis in cinemas will be discussed. At 6.30 p.m., the Minister of Agriculture Policy will make information on the initiatives in relation to the drought emergency, with particular reference to the agriculture sector. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. The Brothers of Italy and Mixed Groups are given fifteen minutes. On Thursday 14 July, the decree-law on aid, energy and investment, approved by the House of Deputies, will be discussed. After the general discussion, in the event that the Government raises the question of trust in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, it will go directly to the explanations of vote on trust and the subsequent call. The question time already planned for this week will not take place. The next week's calendar, with sessions on Wednesday 20 and Thursday 21 July, provides for the discussion of the bill of delegation to the Government for the reordering of the discipline of the institutions of hospitalization and scientific care, approved by the Chamber of Deputies and linked to the financial maneuver. Four hours, including explanations of vote, were allocated to the groups for the discussion. The draft law will also be discussed, from the establishment, on the fair compensation of professional services, approved by the Chamber of Deputies and, where concluded by the Commission, the bill on prison benefits and obstructive life, approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The timetable also provides for motions on initiatives against expensive energy. Thursday 21 July, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place. Finally, it should be noted that Parliament is convened in a joint sitting on Wednesday 21 September, with still time to be determined, for the election of ten members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 21 July: [[Tuesday 12 July h. 16.30-20 - Follow-up doc. II, n. 12 - Reform of the Senate Rules following the constitutional revision concerning the reduction of the number of parliamentarians (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Motions on the crisis of cinemas - Information of the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy on initiatives in relation to the emergency drought, with particular reference to the agriculture sector (Wednesday 13, 18.30) - Drawing of Law No 2668 - Decree-Law No 50, Aid, Energy and Investment (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 16 July) Wednesday 13 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 14 " h. 9.30]] [[Wednesday, July 20 h. 9,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2633 - Delegation to the Government for the reorganization of the discipline of the Institutes of admission and care of scientific character (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (linked to the financial maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 2419 and connected - Fair compensation of professional benefits (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (by the drawing up office) - Drawing of law n. 2574 and connected - Benefits of penitentiaries and obstructive life (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Motions on initiatives against the "dear energy" - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 21, 15) Thursday 21 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 2633 (Delegation to the Government for the reordering of the discipline of the Institutes of admission and treatment of a scientific nature) should be submitted by 6 p.m. on Friday 15 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2574 and related legislation will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2668 (Decree-Law No 50, Aid, Energy and Investments) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 35' L-SP-PSd'Az 35' FIBP-UDC 31' PD 27' Mixed 27'+5' FdI 20'+5' IV-PSI 18' UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV 17' Ipf-CD 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15']] Breakdown of times for discussion of bill no. 2633 (Delegation to the Government for the reordering of the discipline of institutes of hospitalization and care of a scientific nature) (Groups 4 hours, including explanations of vote) [[M5S 35' L-SP-PSd'Az 35' FIBP-UDC 31' PD 27' Mixed 27'+5' FdI 20'+5' IV-PSI 18' UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV 17' Ipf-CD 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15']]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document II, item 12. Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u8	Madam President, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure comes to this House as a result of the adoption of the constitutional law that has reduced the number of Members of Parliament. Allow me to say, although it does not have much to do with today's subject, that, as a Sardinian person and as a person who is extremely interested in reducing the number of Members, I can only stigmatize once again - I have done so on every occasion when I have had the opportunity to talk about it - what for me is a wrong law, which touches the principle of representation in a way that I fear is irreversible. That, frankly, I felt like saying it today. Because of the reduction in the number of Members, the Rules of Procedure of the two Houses must be adapted to the consequences of that constitutional change which was approved by Parliament. However, this change has involved larger parts and institutions than is necessary (i.e. adapting the Rules of Procedure to the small number of Members). Not only have there been speeches on the adaptation I have mentioned, but there has been a more comprehensive reform, also in order to adapt the Rules of Procedure to the increasingly popular practices, which lead our system towards a parliamentary model in which the presidencies of the Groups are increasingly marked. Among the most significant changes, it is important and I think it is very important to introduce the figure of the so-called Senators without a Group, that is those senators who leave or are expelled from their own Groups and do not then join other Groups. On the basis of existing parliamentary experience, they would be members of the Mixed Group (now so), but the new Rules provide, in my opinion, for the questionable figure of the Senator without belonging to a Group, mutualing the status of non-membership granted to senators for life. From the next legislature, therefore, if a senator were to be expelled or decide to leave the Group of belonging, he would fall into the condition of an unregistered senator, seeing his right to speak and to parliamentary action mortified. It will also be deprived of all the professionalism that gravitates around our work; just think of the significant contribution, I dare say indispensable, of the legislative offices of the Groups, which with great professionalism give a concrete help to our parliamentary activity. In addition, the resources needed to carry out parliamentary activity will be lost, because the money would remain with the originating Group. This frankly seems to me a very questionable decision, first of all because we put the senators in a position to rhyme related to the belonging Group (and I think there are also constitutional profiles). It is even possible to predict the exclusion from the positions that may be covered, in which the membership of the Councils is included, despite, as is well known, they are technical bodies, from which the parliamentarians should never be able to be removed for political reasons, since they are roles of guarantee. I am talking about this because, frankly, it seems to me to be the most delicate and critical point. On the other hand, for other changes, the logic was followed, more in line with the original intention of which I spoke, that of adapting to the new numbers. It seems to me, in essence, that this is the most questionable part. Italy Viva has contributed significantly, proposing a series of changes, many of which have found acceptance by the Junta. I would like to stress with satisfaction that our amendment, which also provides for the setting up of the Committee on Standardisation in the Senate, has been accepted, a third body, which is important in order to increase the quality of standardisation, especially during this period, when there is a great overlap of standards, decrees and regulations, which need to be systematic and which suffers some difficulties due to the overlapping of measures. The consequence, which we have discussed so many times, is that we are dealing with legislation that is not exactly the best in terms of organicity and systematicity. Another significant measure in relation to the relationship between Parliament and the Government is that, in my view, automatic entry for the oral answer, either in the Chamber or in the Commission, at the first useful sitting, is very important to me. It's a well-known fact. I myself have asked questions (I no longer even remember which date) which have remained systematically and regularly unanswered. In this case, the mandatory response and inclusion on the agenda are introduced at the first useful sitting in the Commission or in the Chamber. The improvement work is certainly not over. It will be necessary to intervene later in order to resume - and I hope that this House will also change - the system relating to the senator who does not belong. It really seems to me to be a mortification of the role of the Member who has the same representative capacity as all other Members, but who is deprived of both human and economic resources that are indisputably necessary to carry out his work properly. Another rule which leaves me very perplexed provides that 10 Members of Parliament are needed for the establishment of a Group pursuant to Article 14 (5) (i.e. a Group formed during the parliamentary term) (while the rule of common law requires only 7). It is clear that, for a principle of reasonableness, it would be preferable to provide the same number for the formation of the Groups, regardless of when they are born (at the beginning or in the course of the legislature). We have proposed a specific rule requiring the internal democratic nature of the Statutes of Parliamentary Groups by means of forms of protection for the free conviction of each component (which is related to what I was talking about earlier), with provisions to guarantee activities, in accordance with the democratic principle and internal pluralism. Moreover, it is correct to foresee the possibility that the President of the Senate, in agreement with that of the Chamber, arranges the convening of the Board for the Rules in joint session to elaborate common provisions and interpretive practices shared and coordinated, in such a way that there are no inconsistencies, as so often is happening to us in this last period. This is a very important rule. Another measure of significant impact is that which concerns the relationship between Parliament and the Government: Parliament often - as we have said several times - is compressed in its work by a continuous process of conversion into law of an innumerable quantity of decree-laws. In order to remedy this condition of the system, it was decided, in this circumstance, to propose again what had already been proposed in the constitutional reform, then rejected by the referendum, or the instrument of the so-called vote on a certain date, by which the Government can ask the Senate to determine precisely the date by which a decree must be put to the vote. In this way we obtain the overcoming of the compression of the times that is marring us in this last period. There is much more to be said, but perhaps this reasoning will be concluded by those who speak in an explanation of vote. I must say that a good job has been done, but I regret that it has been done - I repeat - as a necessary operation following the reduction in the number of Members who - I will never tire of saying this - will not do good for the Italian democratic system, because the principle of representation has now gone to be blessed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u10	Mr President, I voted strongly against the constitutional reform that has reduced the number of Members and confirmed my orientation to the referendum. Unfortunately, some parties overly lightly voted favorably, linking this reform to a necessary and unavoidable revision of the electoral law that has not been and is currently in the very high seas. The very clear result of the referendum required a close and passionate debate from the next day on how we should rethink Parliament's work. Juries, experts, associations and some colleagues stressed that this was an opportunity to propose an institutional architecture capable of better interpreting the need for a modern democracy increasingly sensitive to the global dimension of the challenges of our times. But it does not seem to me that this has happened, whereas today, almost at the end of this troubled parliamentary term, the proposal for the reform of our Rules of Procedure comes to this House. The most obvious sign of the last four years is undoubtedly what, with an understatement, we could call the dynamism of the parliamentary groups, with three executives supported by three different majorities. It would be good to learn the lesson we have been given these years. In this regard, I would like to propose a reflection on the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which has been the main protagonist of some of the most sensitive passages of this legislature. We have decided on requests for authorization to proceed with ministers and party leaders, such as conflicts of attribution with other powers of the State and even with regard to the composition of this House. As is well known, the Junta has been conceived as a parajurisdictional body whose irreplaceable and unremovable members are called to stripped of their belongings as a Group in order to protect the constitutionally recognized prerogatives of Parliament without turning it, however, into an ivory tower. I add a parenthesis for my own sake, so to speak. During this parliamentary term, I was amazed by the votes cast in the Junta. A few weeks ago I was asked if I was the Fat clone, for example, for voting in favour of Senator Candiani or for my request to interest the owners of disciplinary action on the questionable work of some of my former magistrates in the Esposito affair. On the contrary, I believe that this role must be exercised: by reading the papers, by gaining an objective conviction, exclusively on the basis of the Constitution and the laws. Politics, not the one with the capital P, but that of partisan or party interests, in Junta should remain outside the door. I realized that maybe it's too much to expect. Taking responsibility for the parliamentary mandate or for a role of government requires, in fact, broad freedom of action and thought, but also the awareness that being the interpreters of the popular will is a means and not an end. We need independence, common sense and also responsibility and sense of the state. Let us drop Maya's veil: with very serious exploitations and as many forcings, all too often the deliberations of the Junta and the subsequent ones in this House have been the ground for fighting political battles, or even for creating questionable compensations. And I say that with deep regret. He has often given in on crucial principles for the democracy of our country. I still cannot, for example, reason for the fact that the deliberations of the Junta, confirmed by this House, have literally invented a part of the electoral law, going beyond Article 57 of the Constitution, which prescribes the election on a regional basis of the Senate. It was clear then and it is clear today that the reasons for those and other decisions then end up finding their roots in the interests of the majority in turn. In this reform some regulatory frailties have been identified: for example, it is certainly useful to ensure that the President of the Council is always an expression of the opposition, but I think that more can be done, at least by working on a constitutional law that innovates Law No 140 of 2003, implementing Article 68 of the Constitution. It is necessary to provide the Junta with the most precise criteria, parameters in the light of which to make its assessments. It is therefore important that Law No 140 of 2003, implementing Article 68 of the Constitution, should be rewritten. In fact, it is not acceptable for Parliament to fill, from time to time, the gaps of this law which guides the work in the Junta with judgments of the Court or extensive or even creative interpretations, in the absence of any rule. The Consultative Committee has certainly made more explicit the limits of applicability of Article 68, both on inindacability and on inviolability, but there are still some problematic issues that can be overcome only by intervention by the legislator. The Member concerned should be given the opportunity to assert, for example, his reasons for the applicability of Article 68 of the Constitution, and not only in cases of incontrovertibility. It is also useful to clarify which Chamber is competent to assess the issues that concern former parliamentarians: we have witnessed a palliation of competences between Chamber and Senate. The procedure should be regulated in the case of mediation, a procedure which was not foreseen when the 2003 law was adopted. Finally, another order of problems arises from the necessary adaptation of Law No 140 of 2003 to technological developments. The draft law that I have presented also addresses the issue of content relating to Members of Parliament found on electronic devices of third parties subject to inspection and seizure. I sincerely believe that it is our duty to better prepare the machine for the next legislature, to ensure that it is potentially functional and efficient for our successors, from the very first day. Protecting, respecting and defending the institutions also go from the vision with which the rules for the future are defined together today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u11	Senator Auddino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional reform is a fact, as is the fact that the number of Members has now been cut; therefore, the amendment to our Rules of Procedure was necessary. With regard to the document we are debating today, I would like to focus on some of the changes to the whole of our Rules of Procedure, which relate in particular to some of my proposals. A first amendment that I proposed - I would like the House to listen to this too - aims to encourage the digitisation of parliamentary acts. We are in the third millennium, at a time when public administration is pushing to digitize and dematerialize, but the Senate in this gives a bad example since paper is still dominant today. My proposal, which has had a broad consensus over the last few hours, provides for the printing of amendments, agendas and budget law, so full-bodied, to be made only when it is strictly necessary, of course at the discretion of the President of the Commission or of this House. And I say this not only because of an environmental problem that involves excessive use and consumption of toner for printers, paper and ink, but also because of a fact related to public health. Anyone who knows how printers and photocopiers work knows that. As I said, my speech is in any case aimed at guaranteeing a number of prints. I am still very fond of the paper: I often prefer to read it on paper when I am very fond of some amendments or texts. But this is true and must apply to the rapporteurs, to those who are really interested. I see hundreds of prints all the time, but then we're still the usual ten or fifteen senators using them. I think it is really excessive to continue on this path. The Senate would thus set an important example to the public administration as a whole. Another thing that I would like to stress today is to ensure - on this the reform of the Rules of Procedure has done a lot, but I think that more could be done and I think that the next legislature will have to do more about it - the bill of parliamentary initiative. I would point out that today's is the first time that I have spoken almost "in my arms," because there are so many things I would like to say and that I have written in large part for points and in a schematic way. We must protect the parliamentary initiative. We know that Parliament is the depositary of the draft legislation of parliamentary initiative, but then, if I look at the statistics, I note that from 1996 until now the decree-laws of government initiative have been 20% of the total, while the draft law of parliamentary initiative only 2% (even ten times less). Then the idea that I put to the House - in my opinion it must be the subject of debate from now on - is that not only in words, but also in fact, Parliament and in this case the Senate protect the draft laws of parliamentary initiative, avoiding that they are lost between the incardination in the Commission and the Conference of the Leaders with regard to the Assembly. We will have to do a lot about this, and I believe there are broad margins - although the new Rules of Procedure have already done a lot - otherwise we will be here - or the six hundred new Members will be here in the next parliamentary term - to complain about the decrees-laws of the Government, except then do nothing to protect Parliament's prerogatives. This, in my opinion, strongly undermines our constitutional structure, because we know that ours is a parliamentary Republic and, therefore, we must protect Parliament in any case, even if it is reduced - as Mr Grasso said just now, let us make it up to ourselves - the House and the Senate. Not guaranteeing this possibility, in my opinion, weakens the function and the institution as a whole. Another idea, which I had put and which is contained in the body of amendments, concerns the defense of the three minutes for those who are voting against their group, as I have done in this parliamentary term and as often happens to colleagues who are members of other groups. On this point, I hope that so many - and I even hope unanimity - will be able to achieve maximum convergence in order to protect dissent. I believe that the latter is the salt of politics, even if I dare say democracy, and therefore it must not only be protected, but also encouraged. And, since three minutes are already few, I think that bringing them to two is a little too disrespectful of those who are animated by the good soul of dissent. Learning to listen also to the voices of dissent will allow us to see the world with a more critical eye, except then each, as often happens, to remain of his own idea. That is why it is important - in my opinion - to restore that time. I know that the Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have done an excellent job on this issue. Finally, with regard to the way in which the investigation is conducted, this will now be discussed in the next parliamentary term. I took care of my child to suggest it already to the House when the ballot was taken for the election of the President of the Republic. It is not about us, but I would like to stress the need for the voting procedure in the case of elections by means of ballots to always take place unequivocally, precisely in order to prevent the vote from being controllable. I proposed, for example, to insert name and surname, avoiding names, surname, first name and second names, because in this way we would avoid that the vote can be recognizable. We say this to our citizens, to the voters when we ban the vote from being recognizable in any form. Then, again, I hope that Parliament will set an example. I speak with reference to the next legislature or to myself, since very few listen, but - patience - this speech will remain in future memory. However, I would like to say, loudly and proudly, that I hope that one day this Parliament will choose a unique way that concerns not only the election of the President of the Republic to the House, but also all the votes by means of ballots that will take place in this House. This is in order to avoid that control that is really annoying and that limits the freedom of each one to vote as he likes and likes. I would ask the House to accept these thoughts, at least to the part of it that is present today, and then to explain the amendments on a case-by-case basis tomorrow, because not only will we improve this branch of Parliament, but we will set an important example in order to improve all the institutions. I think I've been back in a lot of time, which rarely happens to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u13	The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u14	Mr President, I reserve the right to speak at the stage of the report which we shall be making to the outcome of the work of the Junta so that we can reply and also express the views expressed there.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u15	I call the rapporteur, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u16	Mr President, I would also like to reply later.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u17	As stated by the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the debate on the document to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u20	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we must once again point out the carelessness we have towards the environment in which we live and the lack of attention to the protection of our territories, our roads and the lands in which we live. Often all this is the result combined, but perverse, of the incivilization of the few and of the lack of control, of surveillance and of protection of the territory by those who are institutionally responsible for this. The civilization of a community is also measured by how we protect and keep clean the roads and countryside in which we live. As a negative paradigm of what has been said, I would like to point out to this House the state of degradation, already previously observed by me, in the surrounding areas and along the roads of access to the Afragola high speed station: garbage deposited by uncivilized beings at any time and almost never removed, heaps of bulky waste, resulting materials, in addition to appliances and other disused household utensils; all this carelessly, or rather illicitly abandoned on the edge of the road, without the slightest concern for the dangers that this constitutes for the citizens and the sad and disfigured image that we offer of the whole area. In addition, with the torrid temperatures of this period, unhealthy smells and the exponential growth of mice, rats and various insects are added. Both the citizens and the associations of the territory have repeatedly denounced and pointed out as well as just reported. We must overcome the inertia, the apathy, the discharge of responsibility, the usual discharge of the agencies in charge. It is essential to offer an effective and definitive response to this long story, overcoming bureaucratic pastimes. I make a heartfelt appeal to the administrations and agencies in charge to engage in swift and incisive action that will lead to the rapid resolution of the problem: citizens ask for it and it is a duty of our civic consciences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u21	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-451.ana.u22	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 13 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.17.
