ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 30 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2330-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators Cioffi and Pergreffi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pergreffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u5	Mr President, first of all I would like to stress my thanks to Mr Bellanova, who - as always - was present in the proceedings, and to the rapporteur, Senator Cioffi, for the work he has done. We are at the third reading; the draft law on public contracts, approved by this House on 9 March and then amended to the House of Deputies, returns to the Senate. First, the House intervened on two provisions inserted by the Senate at first reading to protect small and medium-sized enterprises. In point (a) of paragraph 2 it has been specified that the opening of competition to the competitive comparison between the different operators must concern in particular, in addition to small and medium-sized enterprises, also micro-enterprises. In addition, the guiding principle set out in point (d) inserted by this branch of Parliament in order to encourage the participation of micro and small enterprises has been supplemented by the provision of premium criteria for the aggregation of undertakings, as well as the obligation to justify the decision not to divide into lots by the contracting station. In point (a), it was also stated that, when implementing the delegation, account should also be taken of the specific nature of contracts in the special sectors with the aim of enhancing the specific nature of such contracts. The Chamber then introduced the new governing criterion, referred to in point (b), aimed at the revision of the competences of the DAC in the matter of public contracts, in order to strengthen its functions of supervision in the field and of support to the contracting stations. Also with regard to the competences of the DAC, in point (m) it was also provided that the authority would prepare standard contracts, after consulting the Council of Public Works regarding the contracts type of works and services of engineering and architecture. Among the principles to be respected in contracts under threshold was also that of rotation in the procedures of choice of the contractor. The simplification of procedures for the realisation of investments in green and digital technologies as well as in innovation and research, as provided for in point (f), has been accompanied by procedures for the realization of investments in social innovation. Among the conditions of an objective nature, not foreseeable at the time of the formulation of the offer, which determine the revision of the prices, pursuant to point (g), the variation of the cost resulting from the renewal of the national collective agreements of employment applicable in relation to the object of the contract and the services to be followed also in a prevailing way has been expressly included. In point (h), first, it was provided that contracting stations should be given the right to participate in procurement procedures and concession procedures for economic operators, whose main purpose is the social and professional integration of persons with disabilities or disadvantaged persons. A reference to disadvantaged people has also been included with regard to equal opportunities under 3. Secondly, the mandatory inclusion of social clauses to guarantee and not only to promote - as the original text of the draft law stated - the employment stability of employees. Similarly, in point (v), it has been provided that, in the case of social services and catering in hospitals, hospitals and schools, as well as those with a high labour density, invitations to tender, notices and invitations must contain the provision of specific social clauses aimed at promoting the employment stability of the staff employed. In the case of supplies from non-EU countries, measures should be taken to ensure compliance with minimum environmental criteria, workers' rights, including in order to ensure fair competition with economic operators in European countries. The new governing criterion referred to in point (l) shall prohibit the free provision of professional activities, except in exceptional cases and subject to appropriate reasons. The House then reworded the guiding criterion on the simplification of the phase of approval of the projects, in letter q), making the redefinition of the design levels more binding in order to reduce them. In point (aa) on the rationalisation, simplification and extension of forms of public-private partnership, the forecast of standard contracts has also been included. In the field of integrated procurement, in point (ee), it has been clarified that the necessary qualification for the preparation of the projects remains firm, as well as the obligation to indicate, in the tender documents or invitations, how the contracting company pays directly to the designer the proportion of the compensation corresponding to the design charges expressly indicated in the tender of the economic operator, net of the auction reduction; this was a great battle carried out by the Commission here in the Senate. An explicit reference to the acceleration of the procedures was added to the governing criterion for the simplification of the procedures for the payment of the contract by the contracting stations, introduced in the text during the examination of the Senate. Finally, with reference to the procedure for adopting the legislative decrees implementing the delegation, paragraph 4 has been clarified that, as usual, the Chambers will express themselves on the relative schemes after the Council of State and the unified Conference have expressed themselves. The Commission, in its analysis, has not made any further changes, considering that the two previous readings have enabled a good balance to be achieved, as the adoption of the measure under consideration by 30 June constitutes one of the PNRR's objectives for 2022. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u6	Mr President, of course, in addition to thanking the co-rapporteur, Senator Pergreffi, and the Government for the work they have done and to remind us that today is the third stage in this House, I should like to add a few comments on what has been done to the House in her report. There are some interesting elements, such as the fact that it is the DAC that has to make the standard contracts, together with the Board of Governors. This is to simplify the procedure a little, and that is what we must do. When we said that, in the price review, account must be taken, in particular for service contracts, of any variations in labour costs, of the presence of a new collective agreement, clearly this entails variations and a possible greater burden on the company, which is not right for it to come to the workers. It is good that there is this kind of variation, so the revision must also take action on this. As far as disadvantaged people are concerned, we used to talk only about disability, and now we also talk about disadvantaged people. These too are passages made to the House that tend to point out and specify these aspects. The obligatory inclusion of social clauses is a significant step, always to protect the work, always to protect that part that represents the real economy, that is, the people who work in the field of public works, that are many and, therefore, is an absolutely fundamental aspect: you cannot think of making cash on people's skin. From this point of view, therefore, the compulsory nature of social clauses is absolutely fundamental. We must never forget what the purpose of our action is: it is not only a matter of carrying out a work to do a service to the citizens who will benefit from that work, but also of ensuring that the people who are doing that work are not expelled from the world of work because someone has to do business. Therefore, needs must be interpenerated. Rightly, a company must have its profitability, but it must never be at the expense of people. The prohibition of free performance has been reiterated, although some exceptional cases by professionals have been excluded, whether they are geometries, architects or engineers. This must be repeated, because it happens, sometimes, that a professional is asked to do a job without being paid, because it is useful for the purposes of the curriculum. But this is a world that is not real, but slavery, which we must oppose. Therefore, the measures we put in place always serve to carry out political action. As for supplies from non-EU countries, already in the public contract code defined by Legislative Decree No 50 of 18 April 2016, it was expected that they would not exceed 50%, but in this measure we have included also the protection of environmental criteria and the protection of labour. So once again, it cannot be the only economy and above all - forgive me - the only finance to manage the public works market, but there must be other types of criteria. If we have to spend a little more on achieving social objectives, combating climate change and social dumping, it is good that we do so and we must therefore ensure that this important level of attention to the environment and people's lives is at the heart of our action, and we do so at times simply by changing some of the criteria of the delegation law. There is also a point, which we discussed in the first passage here in the Senate, regarding the possibility for the Government to decide to use the State Council to write the code of procurement. On that occasion, we tried to have this rule removed. Among us senators, in camera caritatis, we can say that, as the President of the Council said at the inauguration of the year of the Council of State, this could not be done. Let's be frank about the truth. But I repeat the concept that this has only happened once in history, when the Council of State has written the rules on the code of administrative law, which may be its subject, but certainly not that of the code of procurement. That rule, then, we don't find it nice. The funny thing is that the House has been added the prediction that, before the legislative decree is transmitted to the Chambers, the opinion of the Council of State is necessary. I think it will be very fun to read that opinion of the Council of State in case the Government decides to use it to write the procurement code. It will be very fun to see what the Council of State writes about itself. And we'll have a lot of political fun seeing what's gonna happen. Apart from that, I would like to stress that this is an absolutely fundamental matter. Now the government has six months to exercise the delegation and we hope it will do so carefully. We will be very serious and careful to verify that the legislative decree is consistent not only with the guidelines we have given in the delegation, but also with the objective that we must all have, that is to have infrastructures, services and supplies that are to protect the general interest, the action of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises that we have so much wanted to protect and not of other interests and tend not to win finance on the economy. We will continue to ensure that the Government does so and we are sure that it will. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u7	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u8	Mr President, after an electoral week, after a moment that almost no longer belonged to us, namely the confrontation with the electorate, we should have rediscovered a value of democracy, that is to say the confrontation with the electorate, and we should therefore have learned also a heritage of mutual respect, which - we would always hope when we have some optimism - should also improve parliamentary work and restore dignity to Parliament, which unfortunately has not lost it, but lately does not even try to win it back. I will explain this point. It is precisely in this context that we must listen in the last few hours - and I am speaking with respect to the many esteemed colleagues of the Democratic Party - to the words not of a city councilman, but of an important MP of the Democratic Party, the foreign head, Mr Quartapelle in Martelli, who, referring to the Brothers of Italy and his leader Giorgia Meloni, spoke of the "Rantolo della Meloni" (Meloni). I remember that in the dictionaries - just open them - the word "rantolo" means the breath of an agonizing person. He even added - and perhaps, if he does not clarify it immediately, he will also respond to the law - that what considered today the first Italian party would be part of an international financed by Russia. Mr President, I believe in democratic rules, in the respect of citizens and voters and in the cooperation between political forces, and I expect immediately some words from the Democratic Party that will clarify exactly whether Mrs Lia Quartapelle's ramblings in Martelli belong to you or to the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u9	Senator De Bertoldi, forgive my interruption. There are two issues to which I would like to refer, although there are always speeches which are not on the agenda of the sitting. The first is to stick to the agenda. The second question, however, is that we are talking about a Member of Parliament, so the Presidency believes that it should also draw attention to the importance of relations between spouses.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u10	Mr President, I do not think I have offended Mr Quartapelle as much as you offended the Italian right, Giorgia Meloni and the voters of what is now the first Italian party. I therefore apologise if Mr Quartapelle's husband has been considered to be inappropriate, so I withdraw him and call him Mr Lia Quartapelle, a member of the Democratic Party. I turn, however, to the Democratic Party and ask for a statement of clarity with regard to the Brothers of Italy, because we do not accept such attitudes towards us. [[Comments.]] I speak in this House as much as I want. I turn to a political party represented by Mr Quartapelle. You'd better abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u11	Senator Airola intervenes if he is given the floor and on the order of business. Senator De Bertoldi, you have, however, already highlighted an item that is not on the agenda, you said what you were going to say, and I would therefore ask you now to stick to the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u12	Mr President, of course, but building a cooperation path also means calling for mutual respect for political forces. That is why I wanted to stress this passage.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u13	We understand. You now respect this House by keeping to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u14	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). There's no doubt about it. We are talking about a further reform - so they want to call it - of the so-called Government of the Best, which unfortunately and unfortunately I stress - is once again yet another downward reform. I believe that no one in the so-called majority, and even less among the opposition parliamentarians, is satisfied with the reforms we have had so far - and I am thinking of the so-called reform of competition, the tax reform that is not even moving, this reform of the procurement code and public contracts - because they are not reforms. They are small compromises - someone slightly improved, someone else absolutely useless, someone else even harmful - that bring nothing to our country. I am talking about these things with professional colleagues, with businesses, with those who find themselves every day confronted with issues such as the greatest downside or the most economically advantageous offer. I would like to point out, for example, that, although the transition from the maximum decrease to the most economically advantageous offer dates back to 2016, and therefore to a few years ago, the fact that it has been well presented in recent days Inarcassa, i.e. from the National Insurance and Assistance Fund for Architects and Engineers, is that still today most of the race commissions penalize the concept of the most economically advantageous offer and, in fact, it is still possible to award on the basis of a 40-50 percent reduction. In terms of score, the weight of the component relative to the most economically advantageous offer is well below the specific weight of the decrease. This was an opportunity to express a clear word, to give clear feedback on these passages; and instead also on this little or nothing. When we talk about downside, I also think about numbers. To quote a few numbers, I would like to remind you that the projects completed late, those projects that cost us so much from all points of view, when referring to the reality awarded with the "low" down, are 34 percent; when instead you have with the maximum down, we reach 66% and, therefore, double. The number of disputes - and we know what this means even in terms of costs for our communities - where there is the highest drop, it goes from 13 to 88%, so it grows four or five times. What do I mean by that? We had - above all you had, as a majority - the opportunity to have a heavy impact through this text on elements of this kind. You had the opportunity to radically modify, unequivocally and instead continue on a tracked road, which did not bring great results, despite the "reform" of 2016. Perhaps it is necessary that politics, cooperating, confronting, helping, abandoning the culture of suspicion, which has led to always seeing negativity, risks, enemies, even criminals in their counterparts and, therefore, has weighed down the bureaucracy, as well as the work of the mayors and administrators, making it almost impossible to make decisions without the fear of being incriminated. We have created the conditions for work not to be done and procurement is a difficult, sometimes unworkable and extremely risky passage for those who have to oversee them. We would have liked more attention to be paid to these issues by the Government and the majority. I would like to make a brief comment on another passage that I think is important, also underlined in the recent conference in Inarcassa, which I recall being the National Welfare and Assistance Fund for Engineers and Architects, i.e. those who are an active part of such paths. I am referring to fair compensation in contracts and tenders, that issue which, even in Parliament, remains suspended, because we do not want to complete it. Even in public works contracts it should become a precise and precise reference, because fair compensation means quality performance. It's not like that. As we do not want to approve after years the law on fair compensation, which could be done in just a few weeks in this area of Parliament, we did not want to make it very clear that fair compensation must be a right for professionals who benefit not only those who work, but also those citizens who demand valuable works, works and projects made by trained technicians and, therefore, well paid in a fair and fair way. There is another subject which I would like to mention and which has not been implemented. I appeal to all of you who have practiced craft, manufacturing and service companies operating in the world of procurement: how many companies, perhaps public-sector creditors, are excluded from invitations to tender for tax or social security irregularities? We are talking about companies that would have all the requirements to be able to participate in public tenders and are instead excluded not because of their fault, but because they may have paid late 5,000 or 10,000 euros of VAT and, therefore, have an irregularity, even if not because of their fault - I repeat - but because they are some of the thousands of creditor companies towards the State, the Regions and the Municipalities, that is, the public administration. Therefore, the public administration that excludes them from the invitations to tender is the very cause of the irregularity in which they have incurred. In conclusion, Madam President, this is the reason why we of Brothers of Italy - and I refer to the initial part of my speech - would like to be more cooperative, we would like to be heard and to be able to compare ourselves on the basis of the respect and trust of the entire country, of our community. We would like the problems of our country and our economy to be solved together. On the other hand, unfortunately, sometimes one prefers to make insulting and useless polemics rather than to go to confront on the merit that - as I said - is always important, basic and fundamental... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u15	Senator De Bertoldi, I still gave you back the minute I took from you earlier with my intercourse.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u16	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u17	Madam President, we are here today to discuss this bill again for the third time. I have to say that it is also an event, because after four years of parliamentary term having a third reading measure is a great thing. Fortunately, the first reading was done here in the Senate, in the 8th Commission, public works, where - and I thank the rapporteurs Pergreffi and Cioffi for this - we had close interlocutions with the Government, in particular with Deputy Minister Bellanova, to whom also my thanks go, bringing home a very important measure for the companies. We've set unique targets. Of course there is the question of prices; moreover, from the first reading to the present day, things have gone even further and, therefore, having made such a choice within this delegation law has been extremely important. The other very important issue is that concerning the territory. I am referring to what Mr Cioffi wisely translated, the small business act, which within this measure takes into account the fact that businesses and territories have an important assessment not to be excluded, as is often the case today. These are two extremely significant passages that have made this a necessary act. I hope that the government will be ready and immediate in the drafting of the norm. Knowing Deputy Minister Bellanova, I am convinced that she has already taken forward with the work and I hope that the measure - which is then the law that Parliament asks the Government to do within the tracks that we have assigned - will be very quick. Even today, in our country, with all the problems that have racked up relative to the high prices, the dear energy, the difficulties of access to the contracts, the relationship with the local authorities, the difficulty of the planning etc., although the PNRR follows another way, it is difficult to invest and spend the resources in the availability of the state and the local authorities. We have tried to make a contribution and we have worked for simplification. Today one of the issues, which is also disputed by the higher level that is Europe, is the excessive bureaucratization in the Italian country system: we have been told about the code of procurement and justice. Forgive me, but we have missed a great opportunity with this referendum, even though the citizens have made clear what they would have wanted justice to do. Well, the final adoption of the measure before us today requires the government to act quickly. I would also like to know the schedule set by the Government to bring home this measure that is essential to us. Could we do more? I'm sure you do. Nobody is offended if I say that, if there had been a different majority, a centre-right majority, we could probably have dared more, but, as we are often used to saying, being in government is certainly a sacrifice, even from the point of view of consensus, but it is necessary and indispensable, otherwise we would have a different majority, all oriented on the other side, which would probably take less account of the real needs of companies, development, work and production. Therefore, we as Force Italy are satisfied with the work that we have carried out in port, we support this provision and we will be extremely attentive and vigilant to that this norm is quickly fired by the Government and can see the light to give a concrete, serious, precise, punctual and immediate response to the enterprises, the territory and the economic development of the Country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u19	Mr President, on the subject of the technical aspects of the measure, Senator Ruspandini will speak for the Brothers of Italy Group during the explanation of vote and has already spoken to Senator De Bertoldi, in whose speech I fully acknowledge, including the part concerning the verbal assaults of Mr Quartapelle on Mr Meloni. I am not going to go into the matter, otherwise - quite rightly - the Presidency would come back to me. I want to stress three aspects of the measure. It is a delegation to the Government that gives it wide discretion. I take the example of the paragraph that has been added in the course of examination in the Commission, by which the government is delegated to revise the competences of the national anti-corruption authority in the matter of public contracts, which is extremely generic. Of course, we all hope that it will do it well, but I would say that the Government should first of all implement what the law already states, in addition to what the delegation requests. The law is based, among other things, on fundamental principles of national and European law, such as legality, transparency, competition and the need not to meet - as specifically mentioned - infringement proceedings by the European Union, which has very precise rules in competition matters and already has a number of times Italy has stumbled into infringement procedures, which represent costs, as well as a loss of credibility for our nation. I give very concrete examples where, however, these principles are not applied. Let's start with the infringement procedure. In 2007 the government tried to extend the Brescia-Padova motorway without any reason, except to keep the same operator. We are talking about an extremely profitable motorway, which produces profits that are close to half the income; there are practically no other legal sectors where there are such gains. The European Union opened a procedure because it said that it was not justifiable to extend an important concession if not accompanied by some strong motivation, such as the implementation of a new treaty. Great. The Executive of the time, the second Prodi Government, added what reason for the extension of the completion of the Valdastico Nord Motorway, to connect Brescia-Padova to the Brennero Motorway. In the text which was approved in Parliament, a clause was also rightly included in order to avoid any failure to comply with what was said, and by 30 June 2013 the final, complete draft of the new treaty should have been presented. Well, the project has never been presented, and I say never. Two months before that deadline - in the spring of 2013 - a preliminary, therefore not definitive, project was presented, so it could not be built even a centimeter of road; I repeat, a preliminary draft of one of the two lots of which the highway had to compose. Well, on the basis of that project, a very high executive of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (now also sustainable mobility) established that it was satisfied with the provisions of the Convention - which instead demanded a completely different thing - and therefore the concession was extended until 2026, i.e. for twenty years from the original deadline. The even more insane thing is that that decision of the CIPE - today CIPESS, because it has added sustainable development - has been definitively cancelled by the Council of State. In other words, it was extended until 2026 - and this was the case in 2018 - the concession for a motorway with profits of about one hundred million per year, all paid by motorists, certainly not raining from the sky, on the basis of a document totally unfit to satisfy what the law approved in Parliament provided; a document that was definitively cancelled by the Council of State. The interested parties, i.e. the management of the motorway, which happened in the meantime to have ended up under the heel of Atlantia Benetton - they are obviously among the needy to whom the Government must make gifts - have lodged an appeal in Cassation against the annulment of the Council of State that the Cassation rejected by charging the expenses. I have tabled a number of questions on this and the Government has never answered them. I would remind you that we are talking here about transparency and that answering questions is the duty of the Government, not a kind faculty that is exercised once in a while, when someone insists: just read the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which obviously is similar to that of the other branch of Parliament. I wonder where transparency is in this case, with a substantially and materially changed concession in its content, without even informing Parliament, even when requested, even though it was passed by law. Where, then, are transparency and legality? Speaking of legality: who is that executive who kindly approved this gift to the poor Atlantia Benetton? I don't name it, because it's not a personal matter: it's definitely a good person, but it's doing things that have nothing to do with the law. The anti-corruption law, which is the one establishing the National Anti-corruption Authority (ANAC) - whose powers are changed, through a delegation to the Government, by the draft law under consideration - provides that there is a rotation in all positions of the public administration that may be subject to danger of corruption. A gentleman, who with a signature can move hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros here or there, should probably be subject to rotation. This gentleman has always been in the same sector since 1997, that of motorway concessions, and he does things like the one I've illustrated. All this has been the subject of questions, to which no answer has ever been given. This same leader, who continues to stand there against the anti-corruption law since the last century - it has a certain effect to think of it - and in the century that has just begun, he has also done something else, always in the name of legality and correctness. We know well that the restaurant for companies damaged by the pandemic by Covid-19 works in this way: there must have been a reduction of at least 33% of the turnover, the refreshment can not exceed 20% of the turnover itself and 10% if you are above a certain percentage of turnover. Therefore, the share is between 10 and 20 percent if there has been a 33% reduction. Thousands of companies have failed, because these measures have proved to be insufficient in many cases: well, the manager himself, who against the anti-corruption law has been for twenty-five years in this area a little delicate and above all from the high economic and financial value, has decided, after consulting the interested, that is the beneficiaries, that the highway dealers are given a refreshment of 100 percent, even if there is not a reduction of the turnover that reaches 33 percent, that - happens - is exactly what happens with Autostrade for Italy of Atlantia Benetton. There would be a lot more to say, but I only have ten minutes. These events have been going on for years, on which the Government does not respond regularly to questions. The Government, which receives a delegation to pass laws which - as they should, of course, already do - protect legality, transparency and competition and prevent infringement procedures by the European Union, begin to do so long before the text is drafted - on which it was rightly hoped that if there should be a text, it should be done quickly - it would respect the law, respond to the question and, if it should make gifts, do it to the people who need it and not to the billionaires, who have very serious responsibilities on conscience, as in the collapse of the Morandi bridge, just as the judiciary has been ascertaining in recent months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u20	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u21	Mr President, today we are finishing in a virtuous way the work done by Parliament on the procurement code. This work began well here (I give it to the rapporteurs, Senator Pergreffi and Senator Cioffi, but also to Deputy Minister Bellanova, who followed the work) in a virtuous dynamic (I use the same term as before) between Government and Parliament: the Government makes its proposal and Parliament tries to improve it. This time, as Senator Mallegni said, it was an event (in the notes I called it rare avis) and we also rediscovered the virtues of bicameralism. I know I was practically the only fan of bicameralism in Italy, perhaps - indeed, certainly - along with Senator Zanda. In fact, those who thought it felt that the shuttle did not necessarily waste time. Many times, through the shuttle, you improve the laws and this is exactly what happened in this case. We did our job and the House added things, implementing and improving what we had done. We come out - all of us and the country - with a law absolutely improved compared to the initial text, in the best spirit of collaboration between the Chambers and with the Government, doing well to the full. On the procurement code, I have already said that there has been a fundamental error, namely the division between the detractors tout court and the fans tout court of the text we wrote in the last parliamentary term. Truly, as with every law, there was very good and something to be improved. The truth is, you've never been able to finish that job. Some directives (more than laws) of soft law that were to be made have not been adopted. In fact, that text has never entered into force. The subsequent interventions made it necessary, once again, to try to write a delegated law that, then, through the implementing decrees, gave us a complete picture and I do not mean immutable, but at least - I hope - did not change 100 times, in different aspects, during a single year of legislature. Let's try it. There's still something to be improved. Of the old code the centrality of the design is lost. My colleague De Bertoldi - I have shared his speech in this part and not in others - has evidenced how some crooks that will concern the free professionals can derive from having exceeded the previous code. We must be careful in the implementing decrees, but I will return. At first reading, this branch of Parliament was especially careful to introduce elements of simplification, efficiency and speed and, on the other hand, never to lose sight of other crucial issues when it comes to procurement: transparency, worker safety and environmental sustainability. In the House of Deputies it is above all on these last aspects that we have spoken, while on the other hand our text remains virtually intact. The House intervened mainly on the restoration of the obligation of the social clause. Let it be clear, I am sufficiently convinced that in our work such respect was clear, but the House felt that it had to emphasize even more what we had written. Welcome. It is obvious that respect for the social clause is an issue to which we all agree. The passage between the contractor and those who take over, in my opinion always made positive in the context of a climate of competition and competition of the enterprises, must not and can never be paid by the workers who suddenly find themselves put out of the occupation, without having to blame and perhaps having been very good. There are cases of this type very well known and known to all (Lately a lot has been said about ITA). So it was good to be even more precise, but I am sure that Mr Mirabelli will speak better on these points than I did in the explanation of vote. Another satisfaction (as Mr Mallegni said and the rapporteur mentioned) stems from the fact that we have worked in a structural way to obtain the possibility - indeed, the obligation - of updating and reviewing prices if conditions are met. This will happen when the code comes into operation, then in the coming year, after the implementing decrees. I also say to Deputy Minister Bellanova that we were also good at respecting the terms that had been given to us for this reform; the deadline was June, so we succeed. If they are equally good at making decrees, we will fully respect the times. In the meantime, while waiting for this reform to become operational, the Government, probably also thanks to the fact that we had opened the way with this decree, has intervened several times on the updating of prices, last with the decree-law aid, which is currently under discussion in the House. Today, in the Commission, my agenda has been adopted, which relates to a very specific, seemingly timely subject, but I think it is important. In the law we write that professional services must not be free, except in exceptional cases; with the agenda we ask that it be clear in the decree that exceptional cases are really such. Senator Cioffi elegantly highlighted some crooks of working for free and I'm not going back. I would like to stress the ethical value of work and the pay of a job done, which, from my point of view, is absolutely essential in social life in general and therefore also for professionals. I shall conclude, Mr President. Today we had in the State Railways Commission. I give these numbers, because they're interesting. We already knew what they told us even though, when you read the numbers, being stubborn arguments you have a more precise idea of what will happen. We have been told that over the next ten years RFI will invest 110 billion euros in infrastructure (it is part of the PNRR, 30%, then there is much more) and that ANAS will invest 150 billion euros. I'm only talking about the main company that will invest public funds in infrastructure, but there are all the others. Then there's private construction, besides public construction. In short, we have before us a decade in which the real hopes of recovery of this country's economy are based on this world, as has happened before. It would be very ignominious not to exploit them. It is an obligation, it is a categorical imperative that this opportunity has not been missed. We need three things: we need a good law (and we have done it), we need a healthy protagonism of the private world (businesses, professionals and of course workers) and we need, at least at the same level, an efficient, robust, strong public administration able to face the challenge. I have already said that, in my opinion, an excellent contracting station, that can follow all the phases (programming, design, procurement, execution and testing), even with a bad law can do the works. The opposite is not true: you can give the best of the laws to a contracting station that is not efficient, but work is not done. That is why we must pay the greatest attention, including from the point of view of the qualification and reduction of contracting stations. I should like to finish with a little satisfaction. I believe that Parliament has done its part in this case, in a united spirit, even by those groups which do not want to vote for it. I think we can be happy to have played our role in the best way possible, giving dignity to what we do in these classrooms every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Corti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u23	Madam President, Madam Vice-Minister, before entering into the substance of the measure, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Pergreffi and Senator Cioffi, who have worked closely on the complex issue of delegation to the Government in the field of public contracts. Our contribution as a League to simplify the discipline governing public contracts aims to ensure clarity and support for our productive activities. The draft law under discussion then lists the principles and guiding criteria to be followed by the Government. I should like to make a few brief comments on this: avoiding gold plating or the process whereby a European Union directive is extended for transposition into the national laws of a Member State. This is a matter for which the League of Government has spent a great deal to ensure that the protection of work, security, the fight against illegal work, legality and, therefore, transparency remains firm. [[Applause]] We have also included a redefinition of the qualification of contracting stations and their staff. We have given impetus to the participation of micro and small enterprises in procurement. I continue to list the contribution of the League for the simplification of the discipline applicable to public contracts; services and supplies of less than the thresholds of European importance, the simplification of the procedures for the realization of investments in green and digital technologies, the provision of a compulsory regime for the revision of prices on the occurrence of particular conditions not predictable, as well as for cases of renewal of the national collective agreement; the provision of the obligation for contracting stations to include in the calls for tenders specific social clauses in order to ensure the occupational stability of the staff employed and the application of national and territorial collective agreements in the field in order to promote equal opportunities and therefore the occupational inclusion for persons with disabilities. [[Applause]] I stress these measures because we have contributed to the inclusion of very important and relevant clauses for small businesses. I am referring to the review of prices, which has already been mentioned, and therefore to the possibility of adjusting the price paid to companies in the event of exceptional and unforeseen events, and also to the possibility of dividing contracts into lots, as well as the simplification of payment procedures and the reduction of administrative burdens on companies and the speeding up of the procedures for payment of the contract fee to undertakings by contracting stations. Even more, however, we have focused on the development of neighbouring companies, based on premium criteria for the aggregation of enterprises. On a proposal from the League, a rule has been adopted that makes explicit the principle of the prescription provided for in the Code of Public Contracts on the protection and promotion of Made in Italy, thus strengthening the dissuasive scope of the norm and inserting a sanction that discourages offers containing a majority share of products originating in third countries. Always in a shared and proactive way, we have obtained the conclusion of insurance policies for internal personnel, in charge of design and at the expense of the administrations. It should not be remembered, moreover, that thanks to our proposals a new discipline has passed of the recourse to the draw and that, thanks to the League, it will have to be strongly limited and regulated because it would be a mechanism that degrades the qualification acquired to the enterprises. Thanks to our contribution, there is the rule that, with regard to the provision of minimum environmental criteria, they must be respected differentiated by types and amounts of contracts, also preparing a transitional period following the issuing of ministerial decrees with adequate time for the start of their application. Let us not forget our battle which provides for the possibility for contracting stations to resort to automation in the evaluation of bids where no improvements are necessary to the project and in this case the lowest price criterion can be used. Moreover, among the principles of delegation, the redefinition of an ad hoc regulation for collective catering is also fixed, given the high social value represented by this sector. It is true, before Mr Mallegni mentioned the unusuality of the third passage to the Senate. It does not happen very often, also because ultimately the discussion of the provision in the House took place in a climate of general sharing of the line of government and did not want to weigh down the text already approved by the Senate. The new parts introduced by the House mainly concern the social sector, collective labour agreements, disadvantaged people, some insights into design and professionals, and also the promotion of the aggregation of micro and small enterprises and the specificity of contracts in the special sectors. [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] Mr President, let me add, as a militant of the League for over thirty years, since I was a boy, that the League has always represented the productive class, the class that has always created wealth. The League has always distinguished itself to be the trade union of companies, the trade union of professionals, the trade union of VAT matches. This was thirty years ago and this is still today. And this is the proof. [[Applause]] Mr President, times are difficult for our economy. The well-being of the territories passes through the creation of work, work, work and work. For a really good recovery, it is necessary to simplify the purchase procedures, in order finally to realize the necessary infrastructures for the revival of the building activity, both essential aspects for the recovery following the pandemic and the war unfortunately ongoing. Colleagues, the League is in the government for the good of businesses and its professionals. If we were not there, we could not complete ideas and requests that could give answers, certainties and planning for the future of our fellow citizens. That's why we fight and stand tall. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u25	Mr President, we are actually dealing with an exception, but it should be normal. The previous speaker also pointed out how, almost at last, we are facing a third reading. In the past, the third reading was normal: woe almost wasn't there. In the normal course of important measures such as this one in our examination, there was also the possibility of having a fourth and a fifth reading, without anyone being scandalized, because that was the role of Parliament. There is not much to add, precisely because we have already dealt with this measure. A few minutes, therefore, just to reaffirm our position and the goodness of the work carried out, constructively, between the Commission and the Government. We were committed to approving this delegation by June and that is what we are doing. Now the government has six months to draw up a text, which we all hope will be able to address, adequately to the country, the challenges of the PNRR. I must reiterate that, in a well done work, it remains, as it has been a constant since the beginning of this parliamentary term, a difficult interpretation of the Government-Parliament relationship. The feeling is almost that Parliament should disturb the work of the Government as little as possible. We do not like this and I do not believe that it is going in the right direction in a serious, constructive and positive relationship, and above all that it is not consistent with what Parliament is doing. We have a duty: the task of making it possible to simplify and speed up the procurement procedure can help the structures of our country to make sure that we can face a spending capacity that is not usual for us. I would remind my colleagues that we should be able, in order to honour the PNRR, to have a spending capacity - as I have already said and I repeat - from five to ten times higher than the normal investment expenditure that our country faces annually, even if it already puts us in trouble and in trouble. I would like to say to Mr Bellanova, who I know is committed and of whom we have appreciated the work in the Commission on this subject, that it will be essential as the texts of this delegation will be written, because if we are unable to spend and give our administrations the opportunity to contract the work for the necessary and indispensable infrastructure so that the times are consistent with the deadlines we have, we run the enormous risk of unnecessary expenditure and of having to return resources that are, on the other hand, necessary. In the delegation to our examination we welcome the updating of prices, the enhancement of small businesses, the limitation to the minimum of the draw method. Now all this must become the norm to confront. We expect six months in which the delegation that will be given to the Council of State, which will write the implementing decrees, will give the answer and the solution to these issues. In this sense it will be crucial as we face the relationship between the Government and the Council of State and I hear myself saying between Parliament, the Government and the Ministry, because even beyond officiality, it is fundamental - I say this also to my colleagues in the Commission, but not only - that Parliament's cooperation with the Government for the drawing up of these texts continues, that we do not resent in six months to find out what has been written, but that there is cooperation on the part of the parliamentary bodies so that we can really do a good job, what the country needs. The next six months will therefore give the figure of this collaboration capacity and as always Forza Italia will play its part. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u26	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pergreffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u27	Mr President, I would just like to point out to this House that as far as the maximum reduction is concerned, which has been the subject of Senator De Bertoldi's intervention, it has been made clear within the delegation law that there will be an identification of the hypotheses in which contracting stations can use automation in the assessment and typing of cases where they can only use the price or cost criterion, with the possibility of excluding anonymous offers in any case and providing, in any case, that the costs of labour and safety must always be disembedded by the amounts subject to decrease. I think that a clearer prediction of this cannot be written within a delegated law, so it seems to me that the concerns of Senator De Bertoldi are protected from this point of view. Even with regard to exclusion from calls for tender, much work has been done within the Commission in the Senate still rationalising and simplifying the rules, which must be clear and certain for the identification of the cases that constitute the wrongdoing. Therefore, from this point of view too, I think that we can be satisfied with the way Parliament has worked, and in this case the Senate. I also remember that everything about the procurement code is necessary, all the more so today that we are facing challenges, as has been reiterated in some speeches. We really hope that the bureaucratic passages can be simplified and brought back to a certain time, as business demands. Moreover, this demand comes not only from companies, but also from our administrations, I am thinking above all of the smaller municipalities. Certain times are needed with regard to bureaucracy, without forgetting that the economic recovery of Italy certainly passes from the great interventions, but also from the small interventions that will be on our territory. I therefore believe that this is a great opportunity, a great opportunity and I really think that what has been done in the Senate and in the House is a good job and I really hope, as has been said before, that these hopes will be realized in the implementing decrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u28	I call the rapporteur, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u29	Mr President, I will not reply because the rapporteur, Mrs Pergreffi, has already said everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u30	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u31	Mr President, I would just like to thank the rapporteurs, the Commission and the Offices for the important work - at least I consider it to be - that has been done. It is a fruitful work, which has seen the collaboration of the majority and the opposition in the Commission and also in the classrooms of the Senate and the House. I would like to thank Parliament for working hard and intensively, because in this way we have respected the first part of the timetable which committed us to approve the delegation by June; we are committed to issuing the implementing decrees by December. Now it's up to the government. I have listened to the debate and the Commissioners are aware of the commitment I made in the Commission on behalf of the Commission; now we need to move quickly to the drafting of the implementing decrees, so that we can give time to the parliamentary committees to deepen them and to express their opinion on them. I also take this opportunity to clarify to Senator Malan, who in his speech - if I have understood correctly - complained that an executive of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility (MIMS) has been following the motorway concessions since 1997, against anti-corruption rules. From the information I have quickly assumed I would like to reiterate the following: the functions of general manager for the supervision of the motorway concessionaires in 1997 were exercised by the engineer Francesco Sabato; subsequently, from 2004 to September 2017 by the architect Mauro Coletta; from 13 September 2017 to 14 April 2019 by Dr Vincenzo Cinelli and from 19 April 2019 by the general manager, Dr Felice Morisco. I believe that this clarification was due, also out of respect for professionalism, skills and the work done. I hope that this will help to clarify this matter further and if there are parliamentary questions, of course the Ministry and the Minister will have an obligation to respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u32	Deputy Minister Bellanova, thank you also for your clarification. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with the provisions of the Commission's Rules of Procedure, declares amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u35	Campari (L-SP-PSd'Az). Madam President, I rise to ask that we be able to add the signature to Senator Margiott's agenda G1.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll ask Senator Margiotta if you agree. MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u36	Madam President, it is often and often not uncommon that in tenders the concept of the most economically advantageous offer is elegantly bypassed in order to finally realise the lowest bid. Let me give you an example: on races 60-40 (60 the project and 40 the offer), it happens that the 60 points are given to everyone and therefore in the end companies are reduced to compete on the economic offer and clearly those who pay the expenses are always the workers. I would like to take this opportunity to say that this issue has been addressed by the Commission, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, who have expressed their support for this opinion. The G1.2 agenda is therefore intended to commit the Government to pay particular attention to the tenders carried out by contracting stations that, as I said before, elegantly move on the economic offer and not on the project.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u37	The remaining agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u38	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Mr De Poli's G1.3 agenda. As regards the agendas G1.103 of Senator Tiraboschi, G1.1 of Senator Margiotta, and G1.2 of Senator Laus, the opinion is equally favourable, provided that changes are made to the device in the sense of committing the Government to assess the appropriateness of the change. With specific regard to the agenda G1.2 of Senator Laus, it is requested to delete the words: "in relation to the award of the prizes referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2". The mechanism would therefore have the following rewording, which has already been approved in the Commission: "Recommends the Government: to pay particular attention, in the exercise of legislative delegation, to the need to avoid situations of surreptitious application of the principle of maximum reduction."
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u39	Mr President, the government accepts the agenda, as proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u40	I would ask Senator Tiraboschi whether he agrees with the rapporteur's proposal for rewording on the agenda G1.103. TIRABOCHI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tiraboschi, do you insist on voting on the agenda? TIRABOCHI (FIBP-UDC). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask Senator Margiotta if he accepts the rapporteur's proposal for rewording on the agenda for the G1.1. MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Margiotta, do you insist on voting on the agenda? MARGIOTTA (PD). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask Senator Laus if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.2. Mr Laus (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask Senator De Poli if he insists on voting on the agenda G1.3. DE POLI (FIBP-UDC). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Agendas G1.103, G1.1 (text 2), G1.2 (text 2) and G1.3 were accepted by the Government. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Article 2 is identical to Article 2 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u43	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today with the delegation law on public procurement, which we are about to vote on at the third reading in the Senate, we intend to undertake a comprehensive review of the subject with a view to harmonising national and Community legislation. Above all, we want to finally simplify the matter in order to make it easier for economic operators to participate in tenders and reduce the administrative dispute that could slow down the start of important infrastructure projects in the country. The law delegates, in fact, wants to harmonize and exceed legislative decree no. 50 of 2016, in fact immediately, over the years, broken and modified, and the subsequent emergency legislation entered into force in this legislature with the decrees simplification. Regulation strongly wanted and supported by the Italia Viva Group, which has always supported the need to unlock the great works, including through targeted legislative interventions. The economic development of the country passes through the enterprises, that if they are supported they produce jobs, and certainly not through the subsidies, necessary measure for those who cannot for objective reasons work, but that cannot be substitution of the productive system Country. Let us also remember that the measure we are about to vote on is a strategic law for the implementation of the PNRR. The Plan, in fact, has provided for specific regulatory measures, or failure to provide Community funding. More specifically, the PNRR foresees the achievement of the following objectives: approval by June 2021 of the simplification legislation, objective - as I said - achieved by Decree simplification bis; approval by June 2022 of this delegation law; entry into force of the legislative decree, implementing the delegation law, by March 2023; finally, entry into force by June 2023 of all laws, regulations and implementing measures, including private law, for the revision of the public procurement system. Let's remember that the criteria established by the law delegation to the Government are very precise and that the Government, when it prepares the implementing decrees, also with the contribution of the Council of State, a highly specialized and competent judiciary in this matter, will still have to return to the parliamentary committees in order to have the final authorization. Turning to the substance of the measure, I would like to recall the considerable work done by all the Commissioners of the Commission on public works, in collaboration with Deputy Minister Bellanova, whom I thank today and continue with the Members of the House whom we thank for having completed the measure with important and further amendments. From the final text, which has arrived in the Chamber, it is said that the legislator, in compliance with the criteria and guiding principles of the delegation law, will have to implement the Community directives aimed at ensuring openness to competition and competition between companies; to assemble and reorganize the contracting stations; to strengthen the rules on qualification; to simplify the procedures for investments in green technologies; above all, to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging their aggregation in order to make them more competitive; to oblige the contracting stations to divide the contract into lots; to impose the revision of prices. A crucial measure, the latter, in a historical moment like this, with the dizzying increase in the cost of raw materials due to the Ukrainian crisis; a rule that we had never written so clearly. I would like to remind you once again of the obligation for contracting stations to review labour costs in the event of contractual renewals and the very important social clauses aimed at protecting workers in the case of the transfer of contracts; the premiums provided for in the notices for companies that favour employment of women, young people and disabled people; measures to guarantee minimum environmental criteria; the strengthening of the supervisory functions of the DAC in the field of public contracts; the prohibition of free provision of professional activities - I would finally say, on this point too, an important novelty - and the reduction of costs and documentary burdens for economic operators participating in the tenders, the digitisation and computerization of procedures. Still, it is important - with the contribution of Italy Viva - that, in service contracts concerning culture and some services such as hospital and school canteens, it is no longer only the price that represents the element to win the contract, but also other elements of quality are kept in mind. In conclusion, Mr President, we started back in 2019 saying that something had to change in the field of public procurement; today we have finally written a new page, of good politics. The hope is that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will be completed and that the great works - I would say large and small - will be implemented by 2026. For all these reasons I declare the Italian Socialist Group Viva-Partito Italiano to vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u46	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, before speaking in an explanation of vote I am obliged to make a note to Deputy Minister Bellanova, always so timely - I admired her in the Commission - because when she replied to Senator Malan she wanted to confine the matter to a mere administrative act. The careful study of Senator Malan goes, instead, in a completely different direction: we would not like to see in ten years some Italian boy point his finger on this dramatic management of the Italian concessions. The management of Motorways for Italy cries revenge, ma'am. We are careful because I think you are taking a responsibility not to intervene, putting your head in the sand, really dramatic. Let's come to us. The amendments approved to the text by the Chamber are those we know, we have read them: they certainly favour companies, they streamline some procedures, certainly minimal, especially those concerning contracting stations; they introduce a series of cases that interest us, such as that of the principle of rotation; they promote the realization of investments in green and digital technologies, certainly yes; they go in the direction of innovation and research, which also serves us, but for us Brothers of Italy are not enough. I say this because for years now, almost like a broken record, we repeat that we want to speed up the procurement procedures; we discuss, narrate, we aspire and we hope a change that goes in the direction of a reform that really the operators of the sector waited for from this measure, but all this always seems not to touch the real nodal points of the system Italy, that must be reformed deeply. Probably, however, a new government will have to do so, a government with a shred of courage. Even today we have realised in this House that everything has been cleared in less than half an hour. I would like to remind you that the bill should affect thousands of companies, thousands of contracting stations. Above all, it has positive or negative effects, which will reverberate on millions of our fellow citizens, who are waiting for the conclusion or the start of public works that have always been blocked by the cumbersomeness of a legislation that has always been presented as a resolution of all evils: even here I have heard enthusiastic tones, which objectively find it difficult to share. That is why what we are about to vote on is a reform that the Brothers of Italy Group has been in the lead for a long time, at least in its ratio, and has an interest in deepening: we have done it, you have said it and we have repeated it, in the Commissions and in the debate in this House. We have certainly interpreted this opportunity as an attempt, virtuous and important, to try to solve the problem and to be a case of resonance of the suggestions of the world of the audience. I would like to thank the local authorities for this, who have been able to make a great contribution through professional associations at the hearing: we have said so and we repeat it. At the same time, we have tried to interact on another fundamental experiential background in the private sector: I am referring to the DAC, the academic world and the judiciary. All this work also done by the Brothers of Italy Group in the management of the amending activity, also in the Chamber of Deputies, has once again been lost. We cannot forget, therefore, the work of our colleagues, starting with the Senator Ciriani group leader, who insisted on facilitating participation in tenders for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to repeat that our amendment would ensure that companies with credit certificates with public administrations could not be excluded in case of tax irregularities that were not definitively established: we fought for this and you also promised that the file would be reopened, which did not happen. This last battle, which is of all evidence a battle of civilization that would finally prevent the state from acting as a tyrant in the moment of demanding credits, being instead indulgent with itself at the time of paying, was rejected by the majority. In the field of public procurement, we have discussed a great deal in the Commission. If I have time, I would also like to say a few words about anti-corruption authority, because, depending on the government, this imaginative mechanism, which responds to logics that are sometimes quite laughable, is interpreted in a different way. During the Count 1 Government it had to be slightly modified in the powers and so it was in the Count 2 Government. Now there is a delegation in white - written in this way, in fact, it is a delegation in white - because in the current situation, with the Government Dragons 1, they give themselves superpowers to this imaginative mechanism: I do not discuss the authority, but the mechanism. In conclusion, what was pressing for the Brothers of Italy Group was to review the discipline organically, directing the delegated legislator, drawing on defined principles, in order to give oxygen to the companies and agile tools to the client, guarantee - this yes - of transparency and correctness for the realization of the constitutional principles of good performance and impartiality of the public administration. It does not seem to us, I repeat, that all this has happened: that is why, albeit reluctantly, we will still vote no today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u49	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs and announce the vote in favour of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group on the measure we are considering at third reading. As some colleagues have already pointed out in the debate, from this point of view we can be satisfied and, with all the modesty necessary, send a message to the Government: you can do the two readings to the House and the Senate, just organize yourself. It is true that it would have been difficult here to put trust in a technical problem, but in any case the third reading has shown that it is possible to get Parliament to work, achieving positive results and a clear improvement on the original text. Public contracts are an essential aspect. We come from a long experience that shows that non-organic interventions can produce, even beyond the will of the legislator, more problems than solve them. So this delegation is an important instrument. Parliament gives some basic indications (first of all, simplification) on the understanding that we must always get out of that commuting attitude so that, depending on the moment, we put 1,000 stakes and jumps that create bureaucratic problems and then, maybe, we remove them all by discovering that there are other problems in relation to transparency and legality. So, balance is needed. As far as design is concerned, since the Government will have to exercise simplification on projects as quickly as possible, I would like to stress here: with regard to the projects, the qualification and characteristics of an integrated project, the need to compete, except for extraordinary situations, the executive project remains one of the objectives on which the exercise of the delegation must give answers in order to avoid more serious problems that, especially in the face of the PNRR, would represent and represent a real risk to the country. Well, then, a compulsory price review regime and well that this includes, also from the point of view of the tender, including the cost of the contractual renewals for security, the social clause. The amendment approved to the Chamber on the respect of environmental criteria is essential to have a quality in the design and impact on the territory. I would like to stress one last point, on which some of my colleagues have pointed out, which seems to me to be one of the fundamental problems. This is the theme of the reorganisation and qualification of the contracting stations, which is the key hub for making a qualitative leap in the ability to ground (as we say now) the investments and resources available. From this point of view, I believe that a Ministry directive or a DPCM is needed; we need to speed up and find ways to impose reaggregation and qualification of contracting stations. Another point, which has not yet been resolved in any way, is the level of competence we have in public administration today. As far as competitions are concerned - I insist - if we do not have the ORs and if we do not have those who do the management work in a qualified way, able to manage a contract and the relationship with the enterprise, we will continue to have all the problems we know. From this point of view, I say that we have not yet made the necessary qualitative leap to put public administration in a position to carry out its work to the full. I therefore ask that the Government, in the exercise of its delegation, raise this problem in a strategic and orderly manner. We do not solve it with the random recruitment of some engineer or some architect; we solve it with an extraordinary recruitment plan for the public administration. Otherwise we will always be in emergency and this country, continuing to reason only and always in emergency, struggles, despite the PNRR, to give itself a strategic design. [[Applause.]] 18.17 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u52	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Mr Margiotta has already made clear many of the reasons why we are going to vote in favour of this important measure, an important measure which the Senate had already significantly improved, and that the transition to the House has been able to improve and supplement further, especially on issues relating to the protection of workers, introducing the obligation of the social clause, thus strengthening what had already been foreseen in the Senate, and the mandate to the purchasing power stations to allow the price review to be carried out, even in the event of changes to national contracts. It is an important delegation law, promoted to put in place and order a matter that, after the vote and approval of the Code of Procurement, had confusedly enriched itself with a series of other interventions, often emergent; I think of the various interventions on this matter made during the Covid. It is a rule that brings us concretely to find solutions, getting us out of an all too often ideological discussion on these issues (on the procurement code, for example), with the idea that we can get out of the existing problems by contrasting speed with legality, the rules to the speed of intervention. I simply want to stress three important issues for us in this measure. First of all, it seems to me that, with the help of the whole of Parliament, we are going to find a solution or at least to indicate a way to avoid constantly opposing the issues of the speed of intervention and the efficiency on the issue of procurement to the rules that put into place legality. There are two important issues in this law, among others, that I want to stress. The first question reviews and widens the functions of public procurement oversight of ANAC, giving powers and means to do this, but not only; I also consider it important that ANAC is given the role of support and in some way advice to the purchasing power stations. The second rule is exactly what Senator Errani used to call back. I think that the crucial issue for combining quality, speed and legality is the reform of the purchasing power stations, exactly as this delegation law says. We will see how it will be translated, but already to say, as is done in the measure at our examination, that we must reduce the number of contractors, qualifying them, providing them with specialized, professionalized staff and introducing rules that guarantee the specific training of those staff, makes an important step forward to one of the decisive nodes in order to achieve that objective, which is the objective of all: to do quickly, to do well. The second question concerns - I would like to stress briefly - the idea that a series of incentives and simplifications must be introduced in this legislation, which favour all the procedures linked to investments in digitisation, new environmental technologies, but above all on the construction of renewable energy plants. Environment and energy must be encouraged and if we know how to create the right rules to simplify the way these works are carried out, the procurement code tool can go in this direction. However, the most important issue that we have to discuss today, because it is linked directly to the interventions that the House has put in place, is the protection of work and workers. As I said before, the obligation of the social clause is a step forward. He was already present in the norm approved by the Senate, as Senator Margiotta recalled, a reference to the respect of the social clause, but the obligation is something more, it is a strengthening that clarifies that the purchasing plants must create the conditions to protect the work. In the same way, the other rule is important, which, in the field of purchasing power stations, which can allow price adjustment, makes it possible to adjust costs and thus prices to changes related to national bargaining. Already before that, the possibility of intervention was also envisaged for labour costs. The reference to national contracts seems to me to be more effective: more employment stability, therefore, and more guarantees to employees. Even at the lowest level, there is, with great clarity, a rule that says that it cannot be applied on wage issues and on issues relating to safety at work. All this, adds the rule, must also apply to workers of subcontracting companies. The third question on work is about reward mechanisms and it is also a very important rule for us for those who hire women and young people. Mr President, there are three central issues for us, which we feel are ours: combining speed, quality and legality; encouraging environmental interventions by simplifying; work, safety, protection of employment and the guarantees of greater recruitment for young people and women. These are the reasons why, with more force and satisfaction, we will vote for this rule. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u55	VONO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, very valuable Government, it is a very important and necessary law of delegation of reform that we are going to vote on tonight, which stems from the need to simplify and rationalise the procedures for public contracts relating to works and services and to adapt the internal legislation to the European one, in order to avoid incurring infringement proceedings by the European Commission and, at the same time, to arrive at a resolution of what is already in progress. It is important because it intervenes in one of the fundamental sectors of growth of our country, that is that of the construction and construction industry, that, like other sectors in this last period, has suffered a lot, not only because of the difficulties generated by the pandemic crisis, but also because of the bureaucratic delays, perhaps a little mitigated by the decrees of simplification of recent years, but never resolved definitively. In fact, it is one of the fundamental sectors of Italian production and GDP growth, so much so that, thanks to some measures introduced a few months ago, it recorded an expansionary growth set by Istat data at 6.1 percent for 2021. This is a necessary law because we must aim to make the reform envisaged by the PNRR really effective in the field of public procurement and concessions, in order to achieve not only an increase in investment in the sector, but, by direct consequence, an increase in our employment and therefore have more workforce employed at different levels of the construction industry. Forza Italia has always looked intently at the construction and procurement sector, because it has always been at the side of the companies, which are the engine of our country, and has always promoted actions that could give strength to this sector, dealing, if not daily, but surely constant, with all the representatives of the sector, to grasp and welcome their demands and to influence in a correct manner at the legislative level. We have also done so this time, working in the Commission on public works, and for this reason I thank the rapporteurs, Senator Pergreffi and Senator Cioffi, Deputy Minister Bellanova, my group leader, Senator Mallegni, and my colleagues who accompany me to the Commission, Senator Paroli and Senator Barachini, with whom we have met to agree some of the amendments accepted by the Senate Assembly at the first reading of the measure. One of the amendments, perhaps the most obvious, is that which has enabled the negative effects of rising raw material prices to be countered. It is undeniable, in fact, that the dear material has put many enterprises in difficulty and has made it clear that the increases are due to unpredictable causes and therefore to prevent the increases as far as possible, without being found unprepared, we have had to act by providing a compulsory system of revision of the prices to activate not only to the occurrence of particular conditions of exceptional nature, as initially planned, but rather under objective and unpredictable conditions at the time of the formulation of the offer, such as the increase of the cost of the materials or the inflation. It is therefore also an intervention in favour of the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises and those of proximity, in order to continue to maintain the contracts on the territories and above all to avoid risks and costs too high. Moreover, for the same purpose, it was also possible to divide contracts into lots on the basis of quantitative and qualitative criteria, also preventing the artificial aggregation of lots, which, in addition to circumventing Community rules, penalises certain economic operators. By accepting also the requests of Confindustria, we have intervened for the simplification of the procedures of payment by the contracting stations with reduction of the economic and administrative burdens that weigh on the enterprises, also through the use of a strong dose of digitalization of the processes, all measures to facilitate the enterprises, speeding up the intense activities, maybe stopped for many years. I now turn to the Government to ask for an assessment of the fact that, following the implementing decrees that will have to be issued, I hope, within the prescribed time-limits - but this has assured it just ago Senator Bellanova - only the calls for tenders published since the beginning of 2024 will be able to avail themselves of the new rules, so it would be appropriate, to ensure that the Italian companies are all able to carry out the PNRR and do not incur failures, to issue a measure that will secure them in the blackberries of this period. I therefore call on the Government - and I am sure that it will have this attention - to consider this opportunity. It is true that the PNRR is an opportunity and certainly this law delegates, in addition to reforming once and for all - we hope - the legislative framework in the matter of public contracts, gives the possibility to relaunch the entire field of public procurement, but this moment must not be wasted and must instead help to make understand that to realize great public infrastructural works is one of the priorities of our Italy, because without the great infrastructures little we can intervene on other factors that involve the tourism, the sustainability, the industry in every aspect and the development above all of certain areas of the Country. It is clear that, in the meantime, resources must be released immediately, contracts must be awarded for the maintenance and safety of road, motorway and rail sections with the appropriate funds available. Another very important point on which we have spoken, including through the work of our Members of the House, was the redefinition of the design levels through their reduction, to ensure the simplification of the procedures for verifying and validating projects and the rationalization of the composition and activity of the Higher Council of Public Works, precisely to simplify the procedures for approving projects in the field of public works. Forza Italia has affected enough and well in the draft law delegation under consideration, even if we must never stop or forget some critical issues, to which I mentioned very briefly, but that I voluntarily did not want to emphasize, because at this moment we must work for measures that are welcomed by the whole majority and shared with the Government, in order to be able to bring, even with other acts that will follow, improvements to our legislation that allow to obtain the results hoped for and a real help for all the companies in the field. I am therefore also thinking of the possibility of realising in the near future some additions to the new procurement code, which Forza Italia has already presented in various ways, including through agendas, and the adoption of a new implementing regulation specifically dedicated to public works, distinguished from services and supplies, in which to also transpose Community legislation. It would be necessary to redefine - and in this sense I bring the requests heard in the hearings by the National Association of Construction Manufacturers (ANCE) - the secondary discipline through the adoption of separate implementing regulations, one for the works and the other for the services and the supplies, so that the peculiarities of the different contractual types are taken into account. Many proposals to amend this draft law delegate, therefore to the code of contracts, have been made by our Parliamentary Group to improve this text, on which we will continue to work with the same commitment and enthusiasm, confronting us with all and maintaining constant attention, so that the implementing decrees respect the regulatory rules and the guiding principles and this delegation can realize one of the unmissable opportunities for our country, which needs a change of structural step regarding culture and the economy, looking with the right vision to a true entrepreneurial development, without which it is misleading to talk about reforms and job employment. By firmly declaring the favorable vote of Forza Italia and taking up the words of some time ago of our President Silvio Berlusconi, I suggest, in the implementation of this delegation and in every reform of our PNRR, also a pinch of healthy, far-sighted and visionary madness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u58	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League votes in favour of the bill of delegation to the Government on the code of public contracts and it is also the case not to delay, in order to avoid possible European infringement procedures. However, these are the aims that must make us rush towards the favorable vote, considering that it is deburocratic, simplifies, rationalizes, optimizes and then we proceed to close a path of completion of planning and resolution since long started. We in the League have structured principles and criteria such as, as Mr Corti has already said, avoiding gold plating; a qualification of contracting stations and active staff; the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially local ones, in unpacked contracts and also in forms of public-private partnership; priority is given to Italian materials and investments in green and digital technology. It is also expected that prices will be revised, especially now that the costs of energy and fuels are conditional on the value of revenue. It is also envisaged to include specific social clauses, as well as insurance policies for internal personnel in the design to be carried out by the administration; there is the rationalization of sanctioning and rewarding mechanisms, as well as the reduction of the tendering times and the conclusion of the contract; then there are appropriate timings also for the application of the minimum environmental criteria. There are specific qualitative and social criteria for catering. A call for tenders with award to the most expensive offer sometimes also means better product and savings over time, as we have considered in school canteens, where food teaching (so a higher cost) has become necessary, as evidenced by the growing problem of child obesity in schools. The League with a series of agendas also wanted to enhance the experience of technical directors and also required an Italian digital construction platform. The aim is therefore to accelerate, stimulate, simplify and optimise the entire public contract chain, reducing rules, problems and time to address not only the PNRR, but also the smallest municipal ban. With clear rules there will be fewer disputes, fewer appeals, more confidence and savings for the State, and thus more attractiveness for foreign countries will also be achieved; in fact, the structural and managerial advantages of investments pass through clear and therefore fast public contracts. Today the League is in the government for businesses, for entrepreneurs, for professionals, for workers and for those who have already worked. Our task is to simplify and allow everyone to participate, but it is the meritocracy that is at the root of these intentions. In addition to certain rules, I believe that we must have the concept of respect for doing and hunger in the broad sense, that is, the hunger to grow, the hunger for work and the hunger to become protagonists in Italy. With certain rules we will be able to stimulate businesses, entrepreneurs and, above all, workers. Then there is the sense of duty. At times, great conquests lead to unexpected or unwanted consequences and some achievements in social and civil rights have had a devastating effect on duty. Today we live in the age of rights, fixed positions, guaranteed wages, screaming and demanding. That is what Marchionne said, who did not even know the income of citizenship at the time, who concluded that rights are sacred and must be protected, but if we continue to live on rights alone, we will die. This is our task, therefore: awaken from this moment of anesthesia especially those young people who expect only the income of citizenship [[Applause]] and who still live voluntarily on the shoulders of their parents. The will of the League is also to lighten the enterprises from debitorial folders that for the State are spent and for the enterprises only impediment, impediment to open a current account, to work and to dream of being able to realize enterprise. To facilitate this freedom we need a fiscal peace and a new breakdown of the records. [[Applause]] The League has repeatedly recalled that in 2020 and 2022 at least 530,000 taxpayers have failed to pay, respecting the installment plan granted by the tax, while there are 15 million Italians with at least one pending debitory folder, although 80% of these are under 1,000 euros. Why, then, be bitter? On the other hand, the 0.2% that exceeds 100,000 euros was controlled. The State, we, must give tranquillity and be an accomplice to those who invest in the enterprise and not tartaxare and seek at all costs tricks to fine. It is the enterprises that give future to the families and, despite difficulties, they never back down. It is news of yesterday that Diego and Matteo, of Guidizzolo, owners of a metal company, aware of the expensive bills, fuel and food costs, have donated a bonus expense to their 17 employees, accompanied by the phrase "We want to thank you." This is the Italian company. [[Applause]] If the League were to leave the Government, some parties would complete what today with us can only dream, namely the taxation of those goods that by their own sacrifice every man builds for his own family, that is to say the house and the savings. With regard to the measure the League wants salaries adapted to the cost of living and attention to changing contracts today higher than the minimum wage assumed. We want to support businesses and we consider it mortifying to those who work a citizenship income that is now inappropriate for most people. It is to be reviewed and instead it is necessary to voucher or in any case tools of entry to work safe, guaranteed and fast, as in the world of agriculture and tourism, especially at this time. The League is always there, when it is necessary to shake the consciences of those who passively wait for work and when it is necessary to guarantee certainties to those who want to work. That is why we are also in favour of this measure today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u61	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for having made this commitment, of course the Commission and Vice Minister Bellanova for having participated in all the work. We are called today to examine the bill, amended by the Chamber of Deputies, of delegation to the Government in the matter of public contracts. You all know that this is a very important issue, on which the Movimento 5 Stars had already put its hand with the Decree-Law simplifications. Needless to deny that bureaucracy is one of the problems of this country and that it is not possible to cope with the increasingly pressing need to streamline procurement procedures, which place money in the country system and, therefore, to large and small enterprises, to those who work and to their families. It is also extremely important to harmonise national laws with European directives, with a view to simplifying procedures and at the same time avoiding sanctions. It is clear, therefore, the urgency of the reduction and rationalization of the rules, an intention already present in the version dismissed by the Senate, which has already been the subject of debate. I would therefore like to recapitulate here the significant changes that come from the House and which we are called upon to approve. I would like to reply to Senator Margiotta, who is not the only one in favour of bicameralism. I believe that in the Movimento 5 Stars we are all in favour of bicameralism. [[Applause]] In fact, we are suffering from the fact that the Chambers were not called as it would have been appropriate to respond to this need. Let us now turn to the content of the delegation. There are the strengthening of the supervisory functions of the Anti-corruption Authority and the support to the contracting stations: it is evident the strong risk of infiltration of the organized underworld, as evidenced by high-level magistrates. Let us not fall from the pero: the opposition must not fall from the pero, when it comes to the implementation and strengthening of the function of the Authority, because there is a quantity of money never put in circulation all together as this time; therefore, the Authority must be called to play an important role. It is also important to support contracting stations, because prior consultation of the Authority would save time and put companies in a position to proceed safely. Many delays - as the industry is aware - are due to the submission of incomplete questions, with inconsistencies or minor defects that slow down approval procedures. I remind everyone that in order to facilitate procurement we have raised the thresholds for direct contracts, which - I must say - I have done with considerable suffering: the municipalities can now give direct contracts up to very high thresholds, which were not allowed before. There are premium criteria for business aggregation and for the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The aggregation of companies is useful for competition at international level; on the contrary, I think it is indispensable. There is a call for the division into lots of contracts with an obligation to justify any decision not to divide. It is obvious that a large contracting station prefers not to divide a contract in order not to multiply the performance, but on the other hand the division into several lots allows to multiply the number of beneficiaries of the appropriations, so it is an important measure; if it is not done, it must be motivated. Then there are the simplifications of the procedures for investments in innovation and research and it is pleased that the Chamber has been included the expression "social innovation," which has not been highlighted by anyone else, because some epochal interventions wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, like energy communities, need strong interaction and close cooperation with their neighbours and with local communities. I personally regret that this measure is not given adequate prominence and adequate publicity. [[Applause]] , when it should be released on national TV. This measure, as you all know, allows energy savings - in order to cope with rising prices - which has now become a pressing need also following the Ukrainian crisis. There is also the option for contracting stations to reserve participation in contracts and concessions to operators whose aim is the social and professional integration of people with disabilities or disadvantaged persons. I repeat the importance of integration. We of Movimento 5 Stars have always said that no one must be left behind [[Applause]] and the most penalized are these subjects. To follow, if all political forces work in this direction, there is the whole country, because we are called to create the work, and it is important to do so starting with the most disadvantaged people. In the case of supplies from non-European countries, it is necessary to ensure that minimum environmental criteria and workers' rights are respected. In fact, fair competition is not possible where children are employed who take away the joy of living and their childhood, often segregated in cramped environments and with almost non-existent health conditions. I personally know such situations in many parts of Africa. Think that in Ethiopia the cost of labour is 30-40 euros per month and China, which is Chineseizing a large part of Africa, brings Chinese workers to Africa; imagine what that means. It means that those workers are being paid less; they are Chineseizing a continent, so this rule is extremely important. I remind everyone that work, under certain conditions, becomes almost slavery and it is poverty that takes away dignity from the existence of people who are physically or morally blackmailed by those who offer work without time limits, without rights and without certainty. [[Applause]] In short, slavery must be abolished in all its forms and ways and it is up to the rich countries to show that they are also rich in empathy and heart, not to let the economic criterion prevail and ensure that the right to a dignified life passes. I see my time is running out. Legislative decrees will be adopted on a proposal from the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility, after obtaining the opinions of the unified Conference and the Council of State, rendered within 30 days. The diagrams of each legislative decree will then be sent to the Chambers for the expression of the opinions of the parliamentary committees responsible for the matter, which will have thirty days to express themselves. These are times that I consider absolutely short and that, unfortunately, overall could create risks and critical for the contracts and for the enterprises, rather than accelerate the times, but of course it is a risk that we have to run, because the country needs work and needs the companies to play their role quickly and incisively. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u62	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u65	CORRADO (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, three years after their creation, the autonomous Institutes of the Ministry of Culture with special autonomy are the equivalent of sovereign States, which think of public heritage, received in order to manage it in accordance with the principles of Article 9 of the Constitution, as private property - indeed, as private property of the superdirector or the supervisor on duty - of which the Director-General directly treats even the look and tries to place that heritage on the art market by any lawful and unlawful means, giving it not even to the best bidder, but to the friend of friends, either for a burst of exhibitions abroad, without any scientific value, or for initiatives that reach the violation of copyright and to the erarial damage, always and only victim of the community of citizens. With the birth of the general direction museums, the presspochism came to power and manages it with such discretion that even in Pompeii, sparkling showcase of the reforms Franceschini, of which until 2020 he was director Massimo Osanna, the technical committee of support to the management - I quote to the letter - during his sessions he carried out his own evaluations verbally. Last year at the National Archaeological Museum of Naples (MANN) a lightning restoration of the mosaic by Alessandro was designed, functional, in theory, to send the work to Japan, although included in the list of immovable goods, except then take a year of reflection without giving explanations, generating the inevitable suspicion that the artifact had been damaged. Today in Palazzo Reale is evicted the National Library for the court dances of the Minister. At Caserta, meanwhile, he was sold for lost and then found in the stores of the Reggia, despite bringing upon himself traces of four inventories, a sculpture that is claimed to be the effigy of the infant Carlo Tito of Bourbon and is the work of Giuseppe Sammartino, the author of the famous veiled Christ, while, except the head, it reveals an executive impriety such as to make incredible that attribution. In Florence, cradle of civilizations, but also of all the evils of the country in the matter of the management of cultural assets, Eike Schmidt, brigando like any businessman, but German, was the opener to contracts with Cinello Srl, who believed by the naive superdirectors concession agreements - but the commission for the intermediary was 50 percent, which had to induce suspicion - after the expiration they produce the effects of a real transfer of rights on the images of the 40 masterpieces object of the agreement, including the round Doni of Michelangelo. In fact, with a contract expired on 31 December last and not renewed, today Cinello continues to sell the digital multiples of those works. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all these brilliant minds, cultivated at the Roman College, must be discharged and must pay for the damage to the State, beginning with the most brilliant of all, Minister Franceschini, followed by all the jugglers, the fire-eaters, the bearded women and the freaks of his ignoble carriage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u68	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I should like briefly to refer to the television broadcast "Sapiens - One Planet" which aired on Rai 3 last Saturday, 11 June. On that occasion, the conductor used the public television stage to highlight untrue arguments, among other things without an contradictory one, to discredit and offend a significant part of his listeners, who regularly pay the television canon. I am talking about a category, or two: that of farmers and that of hunters. It has been said - and here the great shame - that in this state the people of hunters cut down on average every year 464 million animals, equal to 773 animals per hunter. If, on Rai 3, you tell these lies in the first place, you deserve not only to be denounced in this House, but also to be cited, at least civilly, with a claim for damages in many Italian courts. [[Applause]] In our country is estimated the presence of 2 million wild boars and this gentleman says that 464 million animals are killed. Farmers will answer: perhaps! So you can do some justice. Even more serious - and the complaint - is that soon after, on social media, the host said that that of farmers and hunters is a minority of little importance in this country. We are also for the freedom of minorities, bearing in mind that hunters and farmers are not a minority in this country. We're for freedom and everyone does what they want. If someone, starting with the conductor of... Sapiens - One planet, believes that he is vegan, do so, because we are for freedom. We also help the conductor to make vegan. They make free vegans, but they don't fuck with the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bruzzone, I invite you to measure your words. I'll put it behind the board.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u71	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask the Government to respond promptly to a question which I asked for to be lodged this evening, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, concerning the incident which occurred between 2 and 3 June last night concerning the aggression against Sicilian fishing vessels Salvatore Mercury and Luigi Primo. The worst was averted, thanks to the intervention of the Navy with the Greek frigate. This is the umpteenth question lodged by Brothers of Italy on the subject (we have one of Senator Urso and another of Senator Rauti), with which we ask for an immediate intervention, first of all of the President of the Council of Ministers, to define well the relations between Italy and Libya, in particular regarding the demarcation of the international navigation zone. The Government of Tripoli of 2009, by unilateral act, added 62 miles to the 12 already recognized by the Treaty, with a recognition of the exclusive economic zone. Waiting for the Government to respond to the third question lodged by Brothers of Italy in recent years, we call for immediate intervention to strengthen the surveillance of fishing in international waters.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u74	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I wish to greet from the benches of the Senate a very high personality, an Italian, a Bergamasco who gave lustre to our country with his visionary and innovative entrepreneurial skills; a genius and generous man, passionate and passionate, who yesterday night left for a new adventure with the lucidity of those who knew how to see and anticipate the future: Domenico Bosatelli, Cavaliere del Lavoro, founder and honorary president of Gewiss SpA. Born in Alzano Lombardo on December 3, 1933, Domenico Bosatelli founded Gewiss in 1970, on the revolutionary intuition of the use of technopolymer in electrical plant engineering. The company now employs more than 1,600 employees and is led by the new president, his son Fabio, who had recently passed the witness. He also conceived and realized Chorus Life, a model of a city of the future totally sustainable, which places at the center the quality of life and the well-being of the person, that social well-being that for him was the maximum objective also of political action. Knowing to know, to understand, to understand to act: this was one of the inspiring principles that had personally transmitted to me and which I keep among the traces to follow. A great man has moved forward, as his colleagues Alpini would say, whom he loved so much; a visionary, an forerunner, a builder of the future. His friendship has been a privilege for me and for many Bergamo friends and I will treasure his wise thought, grateful for the trust and sharing that he has always reserved for me. I mourn him, for he will leave an immense void, but his inheritance will never die: the indelible sign is traced. I am close with deep affection to Fabio, Luke, Matthew, Joan, Elena, Anna and the whole family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u77	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, I am going to talk about the serious consequences of expensive diesel oil on the fishermen's category. Dear diesel oil is causing serious repercussions in our country for individual citizens, companies and in general for the whole economic fabric. Today, with my speech, I would like to bring to the attention of this House the very delicate situation which concerns the fishermen of my city, Sciacca, in the Province of Agrigento. Sciacca is one of the main marine areas of Sicily, always appreciated for the great quality of the fish. And fishing, of course, is one of the main sources of income for hundreds of families in the area. In recent days I have had numerous talks with the fishermen and cooperatives of the city and of the whole area of Agrigento. I have been told by alarming figures: the price of gas oil has reached very high figures, compared to an average consumption of large daily consumption, i.e. 1,200 litres. Moreover, this situation is already very difficult in an economic context, with average monthly salaries not exceeding EUR 1,300-1,400, to which are added the high costs for the companies deriving from INPS and Inail contributions, as well as the fact that obviously a fishing vessel must have at least four fishermen inside it; therefore high management costs, to which the disproportionate increases of diesel are now added. This has led to an unsustainable situation. The Government and Parliament have long been committed to this matter, with concrete and positive measures, and I thank Minister Patuanelli for this, who has always been willing to accept the needs of the fisheries sector. Never before, however, is it time to do more for the current situation, which is in fact extraordinary. Therefore, extraordinary measures are also required for marine companies and fishermen from all over Italy, who have been mobilized for days to protest against this situation. Their proposals range from measures to increase the tax credit, providing for the transfer directly to the oil companies, up to urgent measures to reduce the cost of crude oil. The arrangements may be different, of course with the agreement of the parties concerned. The important thing is to be timely and decisive. The category of fishermen has always represented a historical wealth for Italy and is a source of pride for many reasons. Now is the time to demonstrate the closeness of the state, with concrete acts and measures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u78	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-439.ana.u79	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 15 June, at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.10 a.m.
