ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10:36 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Before we move on to the agenda, I would ask Senators D'Alfonso and Ostellari to tell us where the work of the Commissions meeting 2a and 6a on the reform of the tax process is at.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u4	Mr President, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Ostellari, I also represent the fact that the activities of the two Commissions together have led to 29 amendments, 25 of which have been submitted to Commissions 1a and 5a and 4 for their opinion. The 4 reworded, also with the help of the MEF, are again in our availability; we will send them then to the two Commissions of inquiry and then we will convene the Commissions to proceed to the scrutiny and the deliberative activity. Therefore, I am told by the structures of the two Commissions that we could easily reconvene this House at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u5	Senator D'Alfonso, I must therefore suspend the session until 3 p.m. This is a considerable amount of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u6	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, the length of time required depends on the gift of reasonableness of the individual members of the two Commissions. Since it seems to me that such a gift of reasonableness exists, we can also restrict that time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Alfonso, the Presidency cannot know the process of the work of the Commissions and their problems. D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, President Ostellari proposes 12.30 a.m. as a call time. I, of course, not only agree, but I also commend this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u7	Hoping it's a proper commendation, I suspend the session until 12:30. (The sitting was suspended at 10:43 a.m. and resumed at 12:31 a.m.) The session is resumed. He asked Senator d'Alfonso to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u8	As a commitment, we report that the work of the Joint Commissions 2a and 6a has been carried out and we have put the 29 amendments to be submitted to the inquiry of the two Commissions, as President Ostellari would say. By 1 p.m., we can decide and then return to the Chamber at 2.45 p.m. The reason for the gap between the vote and the resumption of work in this House is that the offices have placed the need for appropriate collating of the dossier.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u9	All right, Senator D'Alfonso. The sitting is therefore suspended until 14.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.32 a.m. and resumed at 14.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 2636, 243, 714, 759, 1243, 1661, 1687 and 2476. Hirers, Senators D'Alfonso and Ostellari, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u11	Mr President, the measure comes to the House after intensive work by the Commissions meeting 2a and 6a, having carried out a demanding hearing. In fact, we have managed three major stages of hearings with regard to academic skills, professional skills and also stakeholders. We would also like to recall that this draft tax justice reform is not only on the agenda of Italy's political commitments, but also on the agenda agreed at European level, because there are objectives of the PNRR that are included in the scope of our Republic's regulatory activity towards Europe. With this preliminary and deliberative operation, for the moment defined in the Commissions meeting, we have saved what concerns us from the point of view of economic competence in the pact with Europe. This reform has been called for on several occasions. And the proof is that six draft laws were presented by all the groups, trying to find solutions on a real emergency, that of tax justice reform. As we have also highlighted during the work of the Joint Commissions, we will deal with the tax process, knowing that the tax procedure concerns the active administrative life in the relationship between taxpayers and tax administration. In this reform we have gathered reports and tried to pursue an institutional approach, dictated not only by the fact that we live the parliamentary expression of our Republic, but also by the awareness that, on reforms of this type, we do not find ourselves easily and quickly, because of reforms that must last a long time, a substantial life that goes beyond the dictates of both a majority and those of a legislature. From here, the unitary spirit converges, sought and valued at the beginning and preserved until the end, even in these difficult and discussed days, which are precisely the days of the end of the legislature. We made sure that the appeal concerning the tax judge led to a reform that generates the full-time judge. We avoided taking up the challenge of the professional judge, because we take for granted that the judge, at the time when he realized jurisdiction and jurisprudence, was professional and professionalized, beyond his source of legitimacy: the experience with weak selection or rigorous selection on a competitive basis such as the one that identified the ordinary magistrates, then lent to the life of the tax jurisdiction. Therefore, the measure aims to establish full-time judges through - this time with the reform - competitive selection. Since the new life of the tax judge does not begin tomorrow, and there is also a data of experience dating back, it has been made so that with the reform one could recognize also the life of those who up to now have guaranteed the tax jurisdiction; therefore there is a reservation of placements of the tax judge chosen through competition in the competition procedure in favour, with reservation, of those who come from the experiential tax court life. With the need to have immediately, as soon as possible, the full-time tax judge selected with competition, it has been ensured that a proportion of the ordinary judiciary's derivation - I use this term technically - understood as a whole, can move from ordinary roles to the "special dedicated" role of the tax judiciary. This type of transfer has been determined through the institute of the appeal, including by making it possible to recognize a special allowance corresponding to the allowance received in connection with the exercise previously by the ordinary magistrate paid to the life of the tax court. The subject of retirement was raised, which could know a gradualization. It extends the life span of the magistrate's exercise by ensuring that one can also contemplate a décalage, from the point of view of the necessary times, for the management of competition procedures. It has also been ensured that the tax magistrate can have the possibility of maintaining autonomy and independence, dictating in this direction a trend that strengthens the body of self-government of the tax judiciary. It is a process of strengthening and strengthening the self-government body of the tax judiciary, with the possibility - also here I borrow a term - of a small dedicated organic plant, with the ability to realize also the activities proper to a self-government body that sets out on its way. It is confirmed the useful, useful institute, dedicated internship to ensure that the tax magistrate can guarantee the quality of his performance. And one of the elements of the quality of the service, for example, in jurisdiction and case law, is the reasoned judgments. It has happened - for the sake of workloads - that in the first and second-degree committees the judgments have sometimes had weak motivation. It is also true - as the experts behind me remind us - that the story of the litigation going back and in stock hits the Supreme Court more than the first and second degree of justice of the tax judiciary. There are innovations that really do good for the tax process, such as the one concerning the institute of the testimonial. In the text conceived and submitted to us by the Government the testimonial resembled an octroyée concession; instead, with the activity of reform and reconception realized with the amending intervention of the senators of the two Commissions, the institute of the testimonial becomes a real institute of guarantee of the dialogue between the parties for the emergence of truth, and of a truth that is then able to resist. Tax justice should qualify, like any justice, for predictability and resistance. We also made sure that the name of the two Commissions exceeded a kind of administrative damnation, which dates back to the origin of the tax justice order, when it was more of an administrative than a magisterial mark: the difference between an administrative fulfillment and a judicial one is the free conviction, which plays a great role in the judicial activity, unlike the space of autonomy for the emergence of the free conviction in the administrative reading activity. We have contemplated other institutions, because in the Supreme Court the majority of the existing appeals are condensed: the first President of the Supreme Court has described that the judicial citadel is besieged by 50,000 steep slopes. Efforts are being made - as is apparent from some of the notes that have been delivered to us - but they are not exhaustive in order to determine the overcoming of the nodes. A dedication is therefore carried out, within the Civil Justice Section of the Supreme Court, in such a way that the work of the judges assigned can be specialized and made as long as possible, with the provision of the first President, but giving the norm the ability to place the specialization. There is another fact that I would like to highlight, because some innovations have led the senators to agreement and convergence. One instrument that we have conceived is to deal with the pending disputes that, by number, required a measure that would give rise to a collaboration between the applicant taxpayer and of course the tax administration that received the request, in order to ensure that the dispute marked by the success of the taxpayer at first and second degree was determined as an extinction of the litigation through the recognition of a percentage of the threshold of the dispute, that is, the moneyy consistency of the dispute: 20% as regards cases of success at first and second degree; 5% as regards both cases of success, then we find ourselves faced with the request for litigation in Cassation. There is also a request to monitor the effectiveness of this regulatory solution to try to find out whether it will be necessary to put our hand back in the legislative process after that. We have introduced innovative tools for, for example, the recognition of virtuosos. The virtuous with regard to the tax obligations that is made the recipient of the blue stamp has the possibility to call himself out of relation to procedural requirements such as the payment of the guarantee surety, where, obtaining the suspension, the guarantee surety is excluded with regard to the holders of the blue stamp. We are moving towards tax legislation that rewards those who comply with the provisions of Article 53 of the Constitution. There is another very important instrument, which concerns the institute of the question for foreign investors: the redditual consistency to ensure that a project is subject to pre-knowledge activity through the institute of the question falls from 20 million to 15 million, regarding the predictability of the reaction of the tax machine to investment initiatives coming from abroad. Another innovation is also very significant: the erarial responsibility for those officials of the Treasury of the Revenue Agency who do not value the factual and legal situations described by the applicant taxpayer who applies for mediation or complaint. Where it happens that he is right, the minimalism of reading the official of the Revenue Agency shall be subject to action of erorial responsibility. I should like to conclude with a single remark which I would like to highlight. An effort has also been made to ensure that a cultural change, a change of cognitive maps as regards the reversal of the burden of proof in the relationship between tax and taxpayer law, is activated. It has put a point to be valorized, which of course is not exhaustive, but which is worth as a light to indicate the new path, without this disrupting the mechanism of the rules of the order. What allows us to do this intense work for at least six months, through three levels of hearing? We will have the tax judge full-time; we will have an autonomous and independent judge; we have the configuration of a self-governing body that is going into a capacity for operation, as well as a possible solution for pending disputes lying in cassation: more corrective tools of objective meaning. It is now up to the administration to implement these innovations. We thank, for the work of assistance of the competent and vigilant ministries (justice and MEF), both the management and management structures, and the political summits. We thank them very much - and we welcome them - for the two useful structures of the Justice and Finance Commissions, which have allowed us to understand and correct documents. We would like to thank the political components of the two Commissions very much, because, despite the distancing of the political season, we have managed to find convergence, and not only for the external constraint of the PNRR. Finally, we thank the Undersecretaries who have accompanied us on this path. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u12	I call the rapporteur, Senator Ostellari.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be much shorter than President D'Alfonso. Of course, President D'Alfonso referred to the European agenda, but in my opinion there was not only the European agenda, but there was also the agenda of our country. This is a measure that has been in progress for a long time, and we have been able to hear many experts at the hearing in the course of which we thank for their input. I believe that, by putting the country at the centre, this reform has taken a step forward. I have to say this for everyone, beyond the demands and political indications of the various groups. We put at the centre the taxpayer citizen, first of all, and then the country system, which however is based around a tax process that needed some reforms. This is the best reform we could have achieved today and brought to this House at this stage. I think that finally the tax judiciary can be and will certainly be more independent; it will be dedicated to the tax process, without forgetting of course who up to now has provided their service and role within the complicated world that we are going to modify. As a citizen, even before I was a politician and a representative, I am happy to be in front of this reform today, because before that something was obviously wrong. We obviously continue with the path of changes to allow our country to be at the forefront also compared to other European systems, and not only. Madam President, starting with the conclusion, as a lawyer - but we have also talked about it in the Commission - I believe that more objectives have been achieved, and I would like to emphasise some of them as fundamental to the success of the future tax process for all those involved. The testimonial before it actually didn't exist. Today, thanks to the work of all of us, the testimonial will finally exist and within the tax process will be a useful tool, not only for the magistrate, but also for all parts of the trial and for the taxpayer citizen. Another important point is the principle of reversal of the burden of proof; a delicate principle on which we have discussed and on which we have all found ourselves seeking a sharing through the formulation of an amendment that has been accepted, and this to the advantage not of some political part, but in this case of the taxpayer: it will therefore be the State to have to try more - and this must also be specified and emphasized - its claim towards the citizen. I believe that the commitments entered into with the agendas are also important and must be emphasised. And I imagine that will be the subject of an explanation of vote by the Groups. Among these I recall, for example, those who commit the Government - I do not know now when it will be time to do so - to see recognized protection not only at the stage of the trial, but also at the earlier stage of the investigation, because something needs to be settled there today too. All this system ultimately serves to be more attractive as a country also towards those who look at us from outside and who, for example, want to come to us to invest. But above all it will be in defense of those who today make system in our country, invest already in our country and here they intend to stay. Then for them, just for the citizens and for our country system, we carry on this reform and try to improve it also on those points on which we have found a less sharing, but still an acceptance through the agendas that we have approved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u14	Since the representative of the Government has announced that he will not intervene, since we are awaiting the opinion of the Budget Committee, I will suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.40 p.m. Colleagues, I would like to point out that we are in a very advanced state of affairs and that, with the usual cooperation of everyone and the House, we trust to maintain a tight pace.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u17	D'ALFONSO, rapporteur. Mr President, I am speaking only to give an organizational communication to this House. The vote is 14. So, we're gonna be essential, and I'm gonna say this for those who have to plan their departure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u18	Senator D'Alfonso, the Presidency wants to be even more optimistic: voting is less than 14. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 3.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.15 p.m. and resumed at 4.11 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I ask you to take your seats and pay attention. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Protests for the ignition of three green lights at a desk of the FIBP-UDC Group where there are two senators]] I call on the Secretary Senators to pay attention and report any irregularities to the Presidency. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u21	PRESUTTO (IPf-CD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the priority objective of the tax justice reform we are debating here is to reduce the number of appeals in cassation and to allow rapid and high-quality decisions. Having fast justice is an added value that guarantees a growing confidence in our country, both from civil society and from foreign stakeholders or investors. Joined Commissions 2a and 6a started, in January 2020, the examination of several draft tax law on which a series of hearings took place. The draft law no. 2636, of governmental initiative, as well as the above measures, with provisions on tax justice, sets out as a priority the fulfilment of the commitments made with the PNRR, which should be completed by the fourth quarter of 2022. Respect for these commitments is a real obligation that our country must fulfil towards Europe. As mentioned above, in the PNRR, the Government wishes to reduce the number of appeals to the Court of Cassation, in order to allow them to be dealt with more quickly through various instruments, such as: better access to legal sources through the improvement of technology platforms; the introduction of the reference for a preliminary ruling in order to resolve the interpretative doubts (to have time to resolve a question when interpretative doubts arise); the extension of the staff allocation through the introduction of appropriate economic incentives for auxiliary staff. The Interministerial Commission for the Reform of Tax Justice, which settled at the will of the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Economic Affairs, presented its final report on 30 June 2021. On June 1, 2022, the Government presented in the Senate the draft law here in comment, which consists of four articles, providing: the professionalization of tax magistrates through the recruitment of a tax judge selected by competition; the insertion, in the judgment of merit of first and second instance, of the testimonial evidence, of the institute of conciliation on the initiative of the judge and of a specific discipline for the appeal of some judgments of the monocratic judge; the introduction of the institute of the preliminary referral to the Court of Cassation by the tax commissions; the establishment of an inspection office at the Board of President of the tax justice and of an office of the maximumium to the body of self-government, aimed at improving access to the sources of jurisprudenziali, also in order to ensure the uniformity of the judgment in similar cases. These instruments are aimed at making nomocontica intervention more timely, i.e. uniform compliance with the law by the Court of Cassation, with desirable benefits in terms of uniform interpretation of the law, predictability of decisions and deflation of litigation. In particular, this is the pronunciation of the principle of law in tax matters, which will enable consolidated legal guidelines to be drawn up as quickly as possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I do not go any further in describing the detailed details of the article, which the Assembly has dealt with by choosing the Commissions as the writing site. I would simply like to thank my colleagues in the Commissions 2nd and 6th, who, against all expectations, have been able to dismiss a measure on which 212 amendments have been tabled. Thanks to their work, the Assembly will be able to dismiss this important measure, aimed at achieving tax justice that is fairer, fairer, more appreciated and aimed at innovation (i.e. effectiveness and efficiency). For all these reasons, Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group together for the future - Democratic Centre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u24	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, allow me to begin my speech on the tax process - which appears to be inspired by that strand of neoliberal totalitarian doctrine, similar to the unique thought that does not admit criticism - with some sentences of a document published in 2013 by J.P. Morgan, who with Goldman Sachs is one of the largest business banks in the world. The political systems of the southern periphery of Europe have been established following the fall of dictatorships and have remained marked by that experience. The Constitutions show a strong influence of socialist ideas and in this they reflect the great political strength achieved by left-wing parties after the defeat of fascism. These political and constitutional systems of the South typically have the following characteristics: Weak executives vis-à-vis Parliaments; Weak central governments vis-à-vis the regions; constitutional protection of workers' rights; the licence - I repeat, the licence - we have heard it in this House too - to protest if unwelcome changes to the status quo are proposed. The crisis has illustrated the consequences of these characteristics. The countries of the periphery have achieved only partial success in following paths of economic and fiscal reform and we have seen Executives limited in their action by the Constitutions (Portugal), the local authorities (Spain) and the growth of the populist parties (Italy and Greece). In essence, the strong influence of the over-socialist Constitutions, which inspired the constitutional reform of 2016, whose referendum of 4 December mobilized intellectuals and men with straight backs, such as the late judge Ferdinand Imposed with 178 rallies, marking the defeat of the Renzi government, prevents taking the necessary measures, such as eliminating workers' protections and the license to protest. With that overthrow of the ends and means J.P. Morgan, who annexed to his doctrine even what remains of that progressive thought patrimony of the so-called historical left, whose very hard trade union and social struggles for the emancipation of workers and women marked the second twentieth century, bloodied by the massacres of the mafia, by red and black terrorism, by stragism and by the strategy of tension, explained that the proper functioning of the economy is not a means by which we try to improve the collective welfare, but the aim to be pursued at the cost of tearing down the guarantees and rights that define a democratic state. This, of course, because it is assumed that the states are led by elite who, as the Dragon Government has been lowered from the top, without all those political obstacles to economic activity, know well what are the right things to do to complete the work of state disposal begun in 1992 and to dismantle or alienate public goods, as in the prophecy of President Francesco Cossiga to his Goldman Sachs associates. This measure of tax justice reform contains a critical profile of crucial importance, such as to make it appear as a suicidal reform for the rule of law based on the separation of powers, annexing to the MEF, the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the executive power, functions and controls on the judiciary, thus trampling that division of powers for three centuries as the cornerstone of liberal democracies. This reform contains within it germs that could prevent, once entered into a regime, the achievement of one of the central and fundamental objectives of the reform itself, i.e. the improvement and enhancement of the quality of tax justice, which on several sides is often considered to be unreasonably low only in the stages of merit. In Italy there are about 50,000 pending cases and the excessive workload forces the judge of the Cassation and the tax judiciary to judge, despite them, in a hurry and sometimes badly. This reform provides, on the one hand, for the creation of a full-time professional judge and, on the other hand, accentuates the decision-making leadership of the Supreme Court, through the institution of the preliminary referral and the pronunciation of the so-called principles of law, leaving unchanged the present structure. Moreover, once in the system, the magistrates of Cassation will not be able to enter the new tax commissions. On the other hand, ordinary magistrates who opt for the tax judiciary cannot go back, so they will no longer be able to access the Court of Cassation. Not only that: this reform, through the institutions of the preliminary referral and the pronunciation of the so-called principles of law in tax matters, weakens the interpretative and propulsive capacity of the tax magistrates and, on the other hand, strengthens that of the Court of Cassation, which, under the regime, will not have the same in-depth specialized training. Moreover, it is contrary to Article 101 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: The courts are subject only to the law of the Court of Justice. This means not only independence from other powers, legislative and executive, but also the repudiation of a hierarchical and top-notch organization of the judiciary itself. In short, in this reform it is expected that the tax magistrate will also apply the principles of law of the Cassation, even if it may not share its content or even if they do not comply with the norm. We are therefore at the paradox of a reform of the Commonwealth. Above all, however, if a taxpayer is unjustly condemned, i.e. on the basis of subjective assessments, we will eventually have helped to undermine the very existence of the rule of law. This reform will not be able to mitigate the uses, abuses and ordinary abuses of tax agencies and tax agencies to the detriment of taxpayers' citizens, but it will aggravate them even more, with the protective shield of the MEF, whose obvious conflict of interest strikes with the Constitution and the sacrosanct right of citizens to fair and impartial justice. In the greatest mystification of the post-war period, the media - genuflexi in Draghi, whose miracles upside down are amplified by RAI news, in Light style or, if you prefer, Duce - propaganda serial falsehoods, such as the record rate of occupation in June, shot by the newspapers with nine-column titles, networks and unified newsstands, except to omit the detail that that record, never so high since 1977, is due exclusively to the demographic collapse. It strengthens the fetish of neoliberalism of inequalities and globalism of poverty that has replaced States with treaties and justice with arbitration, thus abolishing the supremacy of economic interests over law and the Constitution, with the addition of the direct interference of the MEF on justice. Mr President, I am passing over the delegations put on schedule by a government that has resigned, such as tax reform, fair compensation and life imprisonment. A resigning government should be limited to current affairs. For these reasons, I announce the US Group's vote against the Constitution-CAL (Constitution, Environment, Work) a reform that, like that of justice, represents yet another vulnus for the Constitution and the trampled rights of taxpayers citizens. Mr President, I will not go back to the elections, so I believe that this is my last contribution to this House in this House. [[Stretch applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u27	MARINO (IV-PSI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have finally come to this House to deal with the draft law on the provisions on justice and tax proceedings. The need to reform tax justice in its various aspects is a long-awaited issue for tax law practitioners, citizens and businesses. In fact, a long work had been done during the seventeenth legislature, taken up in several draft laws, including the one at my first signature (Act No. 1687), which had also been the result of a rather intense public debate. There had been work done by the Interministerial Commission of the Canaanite and finally came the bill of government initiative. This is a matter which by its very nature can only be part of the highest political decisions. The compression of the debate in a short time, with the loose Chambers and a government resigned, objectively regrets in a torrid August. Matter deserved something more and something better. This is a bill that, not constituting a reform of the order in the proper sense, as we would have hoped, intervenes on a profile of extraordinary importance, that of the tax judges, object of alternate events in the entire Italian constitutional history. I would just like to remind you that the question as to how tax justice should be dealt with was a matter of discussion in the constituent assembly, where a number of current views were discussed. But we are not here to reason on the past, but on what aspect we attest to ourselves for the future. The debate on tax justice has only recently accelerated because the reform is one of the targets identified by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is worth noting, however, that the PNRR was concerned exclusively by the times of tax justice, inviting proposals for organisational and regulatory actions for deflation and the reduction of tax litigation times. I have some serious doubts about the achievement of this objective through the instrument we are about to approve, but I will also look at this aspect in the course of the speech. The amendments to the draft law of government initiative, after the amendment made by the Commissions together, make an undoubted improvement, even if only partial, but it is above all the procedural issues that find a response mostly satisfactory. Among the amendments, there is the abolition of the appeal in the interest of the law of the reference for a preliminary ruling, which had so much criticism about their usefulness and opportunity; the provision of the obligation to fix the hearing of suspension within thirty days from the application and in any case separately from the hearing of treatment of the merit, as is the case in all other jurisdictions, which serves to give a response to more than two thirds of cases of suspensive that remain unescaped today, despite the serious economic damage to citizens and enterprises that the enforcement of tax co-active can cause. There is also the possibility of requesting the hearing remotely, even once the date of treatment has been communicated, given the orientation of certain tax commissions not to accept this request once the notice of treatment has been sent. In addition, the word "absolutely" was removed before the word "necessary" with regard to the written testimony that would in fact exclude any actual operation of the adverb. Among the changes made is the annulment of the tax act in the event of defects in the evidence concerning its validity which serves to overcome all those probative reversals gradually elaborated by the case law, such as exceptions to the general burden of proof imposed on the tax authorities to place it in the taxpayer's hands instead. Finally, there is the important elimination of that real legal monster represented by the limitations to the appeal of judgments rendered according to law and not already according to equity, as was the case with Article 339 of the Code of Civil Procedure erroneously taken as reference in the draft government law. On the order part, however, as I said before, the changes are more lacking. I would like to stress how the classification of tax judges under the MEF remains, which we consider to be a deminution. Over the years rivers of ink have been poured out to stigmatize the lack of full independence of judges from the MEF already in the pre-existing regulatory framework and almost all parliamentary bills converged unequivocally in moving judges under the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Now, the situation is even more serious and paradoxical, because the new judges, as well as the togates that will pass from the tax judiciary, will become directly dependent of the MEF, so that, in the final analysis, the taxpayer will find himself to be judged by a judge dependent of an institution that, with its typical counterpart represented by the Agency of Revenues, establishes a convention in which the achievement of the objectives is measured also according to the revenues obtained, which revenue also depends on the outcome of the impositive acts emanating from the Agency of Revenues on whose legitimacy that judge must decide. This undesirable structure has not been countered by a significant strengthening of the body of self-government of tax judges, neither in terms of endowment, nor in terms of organizational structure, nor in terms of powers, thus remaining completely unheard of the appeals of doctrine. The question of staffing and competitions is also particularly critical, where the only measure that is truly appreciable is that of training and continuing training, which are essential elements of the new magistrate's figure, especially in a matter such as tax law subject to continuous regulatory and judicial changes both national and supranational. For the rest, two main problems remain unresolved. The first is the encouragement of the passage of 100 between the current tax courts governed by their jurisdiction under the tax courts. The problem, unfortunately, has not been solved, so that the risk of this transit going to desert or almost remains. The second is the rewriting of the rules of a contest that thus structured will determine biblical times for the conclusion of seven competitions, each with 68 places. The problem is that in the blackberries of the recruitment of new judges there will be an emptying of tax commissions. As noted during the hearings, at the time of the year 2029 the judges in staff would remain 1,282 against the 2,608 currently in staff and this also due to the reduction from seventy-five to seventy years of the maximum age for the exercise of the function of tax judge. The resulting effect would be to considerably lengthen, rather than decrease, the timing of judgments by achieving a de facto opposite result to that indicated by the PNRR. In addition, little or nothing has been done to solve the problems identified by the PNRR, that of the judgment of legality, if not a small measure of definition of highly limited disputes both in its amount (150,000 euros of tax), depending on whether there is a double degree favorable or at least a degree favorable to the taxpayer, and even in its operation, a deflagrant measure that within the indicated terms will only scratch the mountain of appeals still pending in Cassation. In this context of chiaroscuri, however, a ray of light is represented by the approval of our amendment which provides for the change of the name of provincial and regional tax authorities in the Court of Justice of first and second instance tax. What may seem only a nominalistic change actually represents a great step along the path of recognition of the dignity of tax justice in the logic of a radical reform of it. I personally have a more auspicious and meaningful concept of the term reform than has been the case in this measure. Surely it would have taken longer: the eight months, which would have been there if a sudden government crisis had not been opened, would have been precious. What prevails here, however, is the principle of the ethics of responsibility. In announcing the favorable vote of the Italia Viva-P.S.I. Group. And in thanking the undersecretaries Freni and Guerra for the constructive effort they have made in the Commission, I like to end by quoting the words of a great master of tax law, Augusto Fantozzi, who was used to say, when we faced a complex and articulated topic: first we make the tree - referring to the Christmas tree - then we put the balls. How much we are about to approve represents the tree, with some nice decorations. It is necessary, however, later, with subsequent supplementary measures of the reform, to have an optimal result, to also put the balls. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u30	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the draft competition law and after the bill of admission, despite so many bad forecasts, we have also arrived in advance at the adoption of the draft law on the reform of tax justice. I address the parties that have done so much terrorism in recent months on the risk of elections: we have come to secure the fourth instalment of the PNRR. We concluded in advance the approval of that legislative component that was necessary for the fourth instalment, that of December, of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We have concluded with the coherent, effective and constructive contribution of the Brothers of Italy Group, which, always having the national interest at its centre, never thought of putting itself out of the way when objectives were or would have been to be achieved. So we have arrived, ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore also like to address the communication experts and those who, outside this House, have stormed us for weeks - and they have done so in recent months - saying that those who wanted the vote were irresponsible and those who wanted a Parliament finally expressing the Italian people and perhaps a Government expressing a more legitimate Parliament, were irresponsible, because when the Chambers had dissolved it would have been the end of the world, nothing would have been approved and the PNRR would have skipped. The conclusion, as we have always said and as Giorgia Meloni has always said, is that there has been no legislative paralysis and no institutional paralysis, that we could continue to work, as we have worked and as we will also work in September, bringing at the same time the Italian people to say which Parliament wants to represent it and which will then be or will have to be the government that will take its lead and will take the country outside the sandboxes, which all too often this legislature has instead provoked. I would also like to know where those owls are, who have hidden behind Professor Draghi's esteemed professional figure, in order to hide their inability, those political forces in contradiction between them, who, however, hid behind the figure of Draghi and who perhaps even today, without their legitimacy and probably without permission, hide behind the flag of Draghi to propose to the Italians an alternative that does not exist. You have tried to avoid the elections behind the figure of President Draghi and today, illegally - I repeat, because I do not know that you have been allowed - you hide too many behind the figure of Professor Draghi, to hide a lack of program and homogeneity: that homogeneity that we in the center-right have already achieved and that program that in the next few hours we will explain to the Italians, because - yes - we are a coalition ready to govern the country. Entering into the substance of the bill, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this point, first of all the President of the 6th Commission of Alphonsus, the undersecretaries Freni and Guerra, who have supported us, and all the colleagues who have loyally collaborated with us to reach this goal, which could also be achieved in a more concrete and substantial way. More could be done, however we have done so and that was what mattered, even for the considerations that I explained in the premise. We of Brothers of Italy are very proud, dear colleagues, to have placed an element in particular as essential in order to allow the measure under consideration to reach the goal today. I am referring first of all to filling an iniquity that prevented graduates in economics and commerce from accessing the roles of the tax judiciary. It was something shameful, which went against the interests of the citizens, because we all know that tax commissions (or tax courts, as we will now call them) are called upon to decide on business and business issues, on which therefore economic, business and tax competence was essential. It was therefore unthinkable not to foresee the presence of graduates in economics and commerce. Since the first day, Brothers of Italy has placed this as an essential element to proceed and, fortunately for Italians and for all citizens, this has been accepted, so we have come to a positive acceptance of our amendment. The same reasoning applies to an amendment which has made it possible to clarify - and those in the sector understand this - the value of the dispute. In the area of jurisdiction of the monocratic judge, we have provided that, because of the value of the dispute, the virtual value should be taken into account, otherwise the loss would have put the risk for the monocratic judge of having to decide on disputes of much higher value than that which can be referred to his field. We are equally pleased to have obtained an agenda. One of those acts that governments often disregard, but this time - who knows why - we are convinced that the next Executive will not disregard the agendas of the day that have been approved; therefore those approved in this context have a far greater weight, because I repeat that whoever will take the reins of the next Government - or at least we hope that it will - will give them immediate enforceability the day after its establishment. I am referring, for example, to a measure which is highly requested by the regions and the self-governments on the facilitated definition of local taxes, because, in accordance with the principle of self-government, which at this stage has not been accepted as an amendment, but as an agenda, we want to allow the regions and local authorities to be able to reduce the amount of taxes and taxes due to them when taxpayers are ready to pay, to solve the previous tax problems, which already existed. This is, therefore, a rule that has been requested of us by the Regions, to which we will deliver it when we are given the opportunity to do so. Further useful and important amendments have been adopted on the subject of pending disputes, which will certainly be widened, taking into account also what is happening at the Court of Auditors, in accounting justice, where there are no limits of EUR 50,000, EUR 100,000 or EUR 200,000, but there is the possibility of resolving disputes in agreement when the parties want to do so. We will also move in this direction to solve the serious problem of the clogging of the magistrates. So we've dealt with some issues, others we'll deal with in the next legislature, and we're sure the government that's gonna take care of them will have our consent. Mr President, I am abstaining because we did not want to put obstacles in the way. We tried to improve this measure, we would have expected more. We had asked - and this is one of the causes that leads us today to abstain - that, finally, at the end of the hearing, the device should be read and that the sentence be filed within fifteen days. The agreement could not be reached, so let us refer this to the next parliamentary term as well. I shall conclude, therefore, Mr President, with the hope that this will be a step forward - and we are convinced that it is - not only in order to obtain the funds of the PNRR, but also in order to give full time, as has been said, to the tax judiciary, therefore a greater guarantee to the interlocutors and investors who are approaching our country. We are sure, however, that more needs to be done; we need to make further improvements, just as we need to do a real tax reform in the next parliamentary term. Brothers of Italy have been seriously, proactively, consistently, in this political phase by the opposition; I believe that there will be even more force and seriousness in the next legislature. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u33	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a reform of tax justice is part of a framework of necessary - I would say indispensable - actions to meet the commitments made with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The unfortunate fall of the Draghi Government forces us to approve a series of very important measures without, however, the due and necessary deepening. The implementation of the PNRR sees the overall rethinking of the justice system as a fundamental pillar. The confidence of citizens, as well as of domestic and foreign investors, is in fact closely linked to the state's ability to administer justice quickly and effectively. A modern, efficient tax system cannot fail to reform the current model of tax jurisdiction, and we agree with that. Some key points have been identified on which to intervene: the first is particularly innovative and is that of the professionalization of tax judges. In this regard, the recruitment of the tax judge through competition is regulated, training for new recruits is envisaged, the retirement age is aligned with that of the other magistrates and an appropriate economic incentive is created for the transfer from other roles of the ordinary or accounting judiciary to that, precisely, tax. The second point is the revision of the discipline of the tax process, and here there are some novelties, especially with the inclusion in the judgment of merit of the testimonial - before not admitted - and with the institute of conciliation on the initiative of the judge. The third point is the establishment of a Tax Justice Board which guarantees the effective necessary autonomy and independence as well as the establishment of the office of the maximumium in the body of self-government, to which the Court of Cassation will also have access due to its important function as a pecuniary body, i.e. to give uniformity to the principles of law and thus diminish litigation. The fourth qualifying point of the reform - again for the purposes of the PNRR - is to adopt deflated measures of litigation at the Court of Cassation. In order to respond promptly to the demand for justice from citizens, I have always argued that the only true way is to increase the number of magistrates in service and to equip them with instrumental, logistical and organizational resources to make the offices work. Consider that the current staff of the section dealing with tax issues in Cassation is lacking of as many as six units. However, in the framework of the measures for the definition of tax litigation pending at the Court (they are 45,000 pending trials), a civil section was set up to deal exclusively with tax disputes, with the aim also to facilitate the acquisition of a specific competence of the magistrates who will be assigned to that section. Finally, a simplified definition of the tax judgments pending in Cassation has been envisaged, in which the Revenue Agency has been fully or partially unsuccessful in the previous degree of judgment, through the payment of a percentage, varying according to the amount of the litigation from 5% to 20%, but taking into account the sums already paid. Although the objective is to improve the efficiency of tax justice, there is no shortage of concerns that have emerged even during the hearings, with particular reference to legal aspects. If the establishment of a professional tax court is certainly an innovation and is important, however, the fact that it is included in the structure of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) creates obvious doubts that arise from the necessary interdependence that in fact exists between tax judges, secretary and support staff from the administrative point of view and MEF. In order to ensure the values of autonomy and independence, it might have been more appropriate to bring management under the Ministry of Justice or the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. It was argued that this would lead to considerable costs and times, so we take note of all this. Finally, also in order to give a formal appearance, as well as substantially, of innovation and reform to the tax jurisdiction, the original name of the tax commissions has changed to that of "courts of tax justice of first and second degree." With regard to the aspects more closely related to the discipline of the tax process, the forecast of the introduction of the testimonial, certainly useful, however, appears subject to strict limits of eligibility such as the written form and the fact that it must relate to objective circumstances not attested by an official. The provisions providing for the establishment of a monocratic court for cases with a value of less than EUR 3,000 and an attempt at conciliation are also to be welcomed. However, in order to be really effective, such an attempt, although entrusted to a judge, should have been mandatory and therefore become a condition of processability, so that without an attempt the application would not have gone forward. Despite the concerns mentioned, given - as I have already said - that tax justice reform is closely linked to the PNRR; considering that the plan identifies for the implementation of the reform the end of the fourth quarter of 2022; above all, considering that the objective is to make the application and implementation of the jurisdiction of tax legislation more effective and faster to reduce the high number of appeals, announce the favorable vote of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u36	Mr Misiani (PD). Madam President, this measure is one of the most significant reforms envisaged by the PNRR, because it covers an area of crucial importance for the confidence of economic operators, natural persons and legal persons. In the PNRR the objectives of this reform are clearly written: the reduction of the number of appeals pending in the Cassation, which at the end of 2021 were over 47,000, out of 111,000 pending civil proceedings; the acceleration of the timing; the improvement of the quality of the decisions of the tax jurisdiction, since in 2020 the Cassation cancelled 47% of the decisions on appeal of the regional commissions. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Six draft laws were presented by various political groups, all of which shared the idea of going towards a professionalisation of the tax judiciary, to be selected by competition; all supported the need to strengthen the independence of tax justice and to establish a special section within the Court of Cassation. This convergence is an unprecedented fact, because on other reforms, one out of all the law delegation of tax reform, the starting points were very far away. Today we are going to approve this reform and that is a good thing, partly because it is a reform linked to the PNRR. Instead we will not approve, because we will postpone it to the beginning of September (and this is a very negative figure), the law delegation of tax reform, which contained and contains important measures for Italian taxpayers, who will remain on paper. President, following this initiative by the parliamentary groups and the work of two technical committees, the Government presented a draft reform law, No 2636. We have appreciated the strategic choice of the government's bill, which also goes towards the professionalization of tax judges, but we have considered it a starting point and not a point of arrival, because on several occasions we have all stressed, in the public debate, the need to integrate, improve and correct the Government's text, gathering the proposals presented by parliamentary groups. I believe that the Senate Finance and Justice Commissions have done, from this point of view, an important and positive job: the intensive round of hearings, which has been mentioned, and an amending activity that has greatly improved the text of the Government, in various respects. In the text that goes to the Chamber we have the civil section specialized in the Court of Cassation (which was not there before), we have the décalage for the retirement limit, because a retirement immediately reduced to seventy years would have very negative consequences on the timing of the judgments, we have the opening to the degree in economy and are not in jurisprudence to enter the competition, we have the economic incentive for the transfer of magistrates from the ordinary roles to the special role of tax justice. The Board of Directors of Tax Justice is also strengthened to increase the degree of autonomy, even though jurisdiction remains incarnate to the MEF, while the draft laws presented by the parliamentary groups were more courageous in this respect. Premiality is introduced, with the exclusion of the surety guarantee, for taxpayers with the so-called blue stamp, ISA taxpayers, who have a positive track record regarding tax loyalty. There is another interesting and important rule: the fall from 20 million to 15 million of the institute of the question for foreign investors. A large part of these proposals - I say this on behalf of the Democratic Party - we too made them in the course of the amendment and we are very pleased that they have all been accepted. The final text, Mr President, also contains a measure to drastically reduce the stock of pending disputes in cassation; it is perhaps the most important objective that the PNRR indicates for this reform. The solution found is balanced: a deflagrant measure downstream of an important and organic reform of tax justice, not a general pardon. In fact, this measure distinguishes between the outcomes at first and second levels, it provides for differentiated ceilings, differentiated percentages: we believe that it is a useful solution to achieve one of the objectives that the PNRR attaches to this reform. The work that has been done - and I am going to conclude - has been fruitful and, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I must thank the Presidents, the Commissions, the offices, those who have worked in recent weeks to bring to the House what is a good structural reform. We will monitor its implementation along the way, because of course there is an organisational dimension that will have to be progressively implemented with regard to the new legal system of the tax judiciary, but the premises are positive. We are convinced that this reform will really improve the functioning of tax justice which, let us not forget, represents a delicate and fundamental link between the troubled relationship between citizens and the tax administration. For all these reasons I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u39	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has marked a watershed between before and after, and this afterward requires profound and rapid changes so that Italy can keep pace with the transformations that Europe and the whole world need and require. For these reasons, the European Union has put in place the PNRR and with it important reforms such as that of tax justice, which is precisely one of the milestones due on 31 December. I would remind you that the Council of Ministers on 17 May, while the Commissions were already considering texts of parliamentary initiative, approved the draft law before the House which addresses some crucial issues: the professionalisation of tax magistrates, including through the introduction of the full-time judge; the strengthening of the self-government body of tax justice; the strengthening of the administrative structure in support of tax justice; the acceptance of the testimonial as provided for in civil and administrative judgments; the introduction of conciliation for disputes. Forza Italia has immediately reported some criticalities of the bill. The first, which unfortunately we have not been able to change, is the maintenance of the management and organisation of tax justice under the control of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, which poses problems of independence and third parties, since the counterpart of tax disputes is represented by the Agencies controlled by the MEF, such as the Revenue and Customs Agency. Among other things, we have immediately pointed out that the draft law does not provide for a solution for 77,000 appeals and 45,000 appeals representing the current workload of the committees of merit, and that it is essentially necessary to intervene on the backlog at the Court of Cassation. After a long work in the Commissions, after numerous hearings to make amendments and improvements to the basic text, we agreed to complete the work before the end of the parliamentary term in order not to risk losing the more than 20 billion PNRR, tied to the implementation of the reform, trying to improve the criticalities of the basic text to which I made only a few hints. But there is also another reason: to respond to the needs of Italy: an effort of necessary synthesis to which our political strength has not escaped once again. Rethinking the country: this is the mantra of President Silvio Berlusconi and our party [[Applause]] and the reform of tax justice is one of the key steps in reforming the whole tax system, promoting a climate of certainty for taxpayers in a reasonable and adequate time, without waiting for years and years for the end of endless processes, resulting in slowing down or even blocking economic activity, loss of employment and GDP. A fair tax process is also strategic in order to strengthen the confidence of economic operators, with an important impact on foreign investment that we must continue to attract. On the other hand, a more transparent and shorter process in time also benefits the state, because it creates more opportunities for collection with lower charges. Fairness, transparency and speed are the keywords. The first action to be taken is to bring down the tax backlog, which at 30 July amounted to 45,000 cases. In the Commission we intervened to facilitate the simplification of appeals in Cassation after the taxpayer received the judgment in favour at first and second instance or at one of the two, settling the dispute with a percentage. But that's not enough. The centre-right, therefore, proposed an agenda that commits the next Government to guarantee a greater and more structured simplified definition of the tax process, in analogy with the institutions already provided for by the state's accounting procedure. The objective of returning to proceedings a reasonable period of time is not only constitutional but also economic, which is far from priceless, which is even 1% of GDP. Freeing these resources means liberating approximately 17 billion. Think: 17 billion. If we were to turn it into a benefit to the state, it would be 1,000 euros more for each pensioner. [[Applause.]] That is why the Italian system must and can be reformed. Another fundamental aspect of this change is based on the vision of the relationship between the State and the taxpayer. This reform finally incorporates the principle of reversal of the burden of proof: no longer a taxpayer who must show himself or herself his innocence or not responsibility, but an administration that must prove in court the violations contested by the contested act, as it happens in every civil nation or in our criminal proceedings. [[Applause]] A change of pace that Forza Italia has always hoped to achieve a modern and fair tax model. In the Commission, a number of adjustments were made to the basic text needed to carry out a reform which provides for the professionalisation of the figures of the magistrates in full-time, also opening up to graduates in economics with appropriate traineeships, while ensuring coverage during the transitional period, so that the advance of the retirement age of the magistrates in service must gradually scale up to allow the times of the competitions for new recruitments. Among the changes made, many correspond to the amendments brought forward by the tenacity of Senator Giacomo Caliendo, whom I thank, such as the improvement of the institute of testimonial. [[Applause]] Forza Italia is said to be satisfied with this measure which, while requiring further interventions, which the next Government will be able to take on, represents a fundamental instrument for a change of cultural step, which will have a favourable impact on our economic system. That is why we have always reiterated our support for measures to help taxpayers and their families through the fiscal peace that the European Union itself has recommended as a valid solution to the long-standing problem. The reform of tax justice will achieve the targets of the PNRR. We have a big challenge ahead of us by 2026: the reduction of the average time to define civil proceedings, including tax proceedings, by 40% compared to 2019. Today we are laying important foundations for allowing our country to upgrade to 360 degrees. In fact, let us remember that it is not only the European Union and the PNRR that impose these reforms on us, but it is the Italy system that, for years, has been waiting for just justice. [[Applause]] A true democracy, in fact, is measured by the relationship between the citizen and the state; and the relationship between the citizen and the state is based on rules and regulations, as well as on the management of violations of the same rules, also in the tax field. For this reason, I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u42	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Madam President, in view of the late hour, with your permission I would like to give the text of my explanation of vote in order to be annexed to the report of today's sitting. [[Applause]] However, I would like to say to those Members who applaud me that I will ask for an end-of-session speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u43	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u46	FENU (M5S). Madam President, I will try to cut the intervention, but I will. The draft law before us intervenes both on the legal order of the special tax jurisdiction bodies and on the provisions relating to the tax process. The qualifying element of the reform is found in the professionalization and specialization of tax magistrates through the establishment of the figure of the tax magistrate full-time. The birth of the fifth judiciary is certainly a fundamental port for that reform of great systematic and structural ambition which citizens and businesses have long been calling for and which can offer the best guarantees of autonomy, thirdness and independence of the judicial function and of greater quality of the judicial response. If this draft law is therefore certainly a step forward in trying to reform an anachronistic and therefore inefficient system, if it is very positive the establishment of the full-time tax court, assumed through public competition, it is frankly difficult to justify what appears to be the strengthening of the dependence of the tax judiciary on the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which would manage directly, for example, competitions for the recruitment of judges and their legal status, as well as the fact that the reform takes several years to deploy all its effects, providing for a transition phase of frankly excessive duration. Including among potential career tax judges all tax judges present in the single national role, we could instead have the new operating tax judiciary within six months. Still, although the figure of the monocratic judge at provincial level is very positive, neither the number of judges actually needed nor their classification is clear, just as the definition of the new spatial planning following the reform is left open. Despite these remarks, the launch of the bill is a news to be welcomed. The examination in the Commission has been particularly sensitive in view of the delicate political phase we are experiencing, but nevertheless, thanks to the spirit of cooperation and the sense of responsibility that have characterized the work of the 6th and 2nd During the legislative term, the Commission was able to examine carefully the issues covered by the measure, also thanks to a comprehensive round of hearings. This has led to the identification and approval of a significant number of shared amending proposals which are now before the House and which I would like to review very briefly. There is the amendment which, in line with the idea of creating a self-governing judiciary within the tax jurisdiction, provides for the replacement of the terminology currently used for provincial and regional tax commissions by the allocation of the role of the Court of Justice of First and Second Instance. Another very important amendment that many auditors have asked of us, that overcomes the criticality that we often detect of the unpreparedness of the judges who come from other magistrates who engage in the role of tax judge, is that of the opening of competitions to graduates in economy, that will certainly give an important technical contribution especially for the taxpayer who has to entrust his life to the judgment of the tax commission. I shall skip some of the amendments to save time. It is very important, again on the subject, that Mr Turco's first-signed amendment, which gives greater importance precisely to matters relating to company accounting and the budget. Then there is the amendment redefining the way in which competition winners are transferred to the tax jurisdiction. The amendment by my colleague, Mr Pittella, to which I added the signature together with my colleagues in the Group, which for the first time identifies the responsibility of the revenue agency official who rejects the complaint subsequently accepted by the tax court on the same grounds. In this case, such conduct may be punishable by sanctions for the official. Then there is the amendment tabled by Senators Caliendo and Lomuti, who reformulates the testimonial adapting it to the principles contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, so it will be possible for tax courts to use this important institution. Senator Maiorino's amendment deletes what is contained in the text of the draft government law as regards the limitation of the appealability of the judgments of the provincial commission pronounced by the monocratic judge. Amendment 1,2000, signed by Senator Bagnai and myself, brings together several important proposals, including the additional allowance for those who pass through tax jurisdiction, the raising of the age limit which requires retirement according to the decalage criterion and also the increase in the recruitment of administrative staff at the Board and the increase in the Council's budget fund. We regret the fact that this amendment was not fully accepted in its original formula, as it would have been an opportunity to strengthen even more the structures of the Presidency Council. What was envisaged in the amendment was precisely in this direction: non-general management offices, such as the status and absence office and the competition office moved by the MEF directly to the Council, would certainly have increased the independence of the self-government body as well. I have avoided listing other amendments to which I still cared, some signed by colleagues from other political forces and which we have signed. The bill as a whole brings many steps forward for tax jurisdiction and for this I express the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I conclude, President, by noting that this is probably the last measure before the summer break and regret that other political forces have not allowed to bring in before the break important measures such as the bill of tax delegation, with the reform of the land register, the overcoming of the Irap, the reform of the collection (we all know that the warehouse piles to 1,100 billion and the taxpayers are receiving millions of acts of notice to fulfill) [[Applause]] , the tax cashback, which is the direct reimbursement of deductible expenses and represents a revolution. This is not going to go on. Some forces have not allowed the bill on life imprisonment to be brought to the Chamber. [[Applause]] , which is a priority, considering that the Consulta has asked us to intervene by 8 November 2022 and without the approval of this law and in the absence of a clear and uniform discipline, we risk that boss mafias and sentenced for serious crimes take advantage of the penitentiary benefits and can get out of prison without having ever collaborated with the judicial authority. [[Applause]] This is an absurdity that the Movimento 5 Stars does not want to give up. I repeat the vote in favour of the measure we are debating. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u47	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 2636, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 243, 714, 759, 1243, 1661, 1687 and 2476.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u50	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, by the spring of 2023 in Britain, it will close the gender identity development service of the Tavistock and Portman clinic. After access to the files of over 9,000 children, treated for gender dysphoria, the British government commission put an end to the nightmare of many youngsters, including Keira Bell, forced to a tortuous, useless, permanent and life-changing path: these are the words of the commission. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly still a difficult time ahead of us and so the euphoria of the greetings at the end of the sitting I think can be contained. So let Senator Pillon continue. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. The following words have therefore emerged from this committee of inquiry: the treatment model used by Tavistock exposes children to a considerable risk of mental discomfort and is not a safe option, nor is it practicable to do so. It is - they are textual words - a mass experiment on children. What does this have to do with Italy? It has to do with it, because in Italy there are eight centres, including Bologna at the MIT consultory, Florence at Chadig, Rome at the Saifip, Trieste at the Cedig at Burlo Garofolo and Naples at the Federico II University, which still practice the same experiments on children undisturbed today. With the Parliamentary Committee on Children and Adolescence, we have examined this issue in greater depth. Mr President, the protocols are identical and, indeed, the directors of these institutes have studied these techniques at Tavistock, which has now been closed in Great Britain. The question is very simple: why do they still go on in Italy with experiments that have been banned in Britain? Why are we still administering triptoreline to children? Why do we still tell the fairy tale that you can choose which sex to belong to, careers aliases, devastating surgeries without even parental consent, but with the simple consent of the judge to protect? These are evident syntomatologies of an ideology that prevails or wants to prevail over reality. With the next government we are committed to ending this even in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u53	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I would like to put to you and the House a question of industrial policy not only in Genoa and Ligurian, but also in Italy, which concerns Ansaldo Energia society. It is an Italian industrial excellence, it is firmly rooted in the city of Genoa, with a factory and a plant like those that once existed. Before Genoa was full of them, now there are few and, indeed, Ansaldo Energia is the only large plant still existing. It is controlled by Cassa depositi e loani all'88 percent, it operates in the field of energy plants, as its name says, in particular on gas turbines, it has about 2,400 direct employees, among workers, employees and engineers and, moreover, thousands of people working in the induced. This important reality is experiencing a moment of great difficulty, which has been highlighted in recent days also by a strong mobilization of workers and unions, very concerned about the future of their work. The energy crisis and diversification policies adopted, as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, have had a very hard impact on Ansaldo's core business. For example, the propensity to invest in coal-fired power plants to turn them into gas-fired power plants has come slowing down: even as far as Italy was concerned the rapid transformations of the plants of Civitavecchia, La Spezia and Brindisi, with a transition from coal to gas, but the emergency situation, as you know, had an impact. In addition, the costs of raw materials have risen dramatically, leading to what some newspapers have called a perfect storm. It is worth remembering that in 2021 Ansaldo Energia, in implementation of a new industrial plan, had recorded a profit of 32 million, revenues in increase and a reversal of trend compared to the years 2019/2020, that they had been in loss. Unfortunately, however, a few days ago Ansaldo Energia announced that it could not achieve the economic objectives set out in the 2022 budget and that it could not implement its industrial plan because of the financial tension situation. It is clear, in today's context, that gas plant investments are less attractive than a project that has slowed down due to unpredictable external situations. Ansaldo Energia had already started some industrial diversifications, in particular with the establishment of two companies operating on renewables, namely Ansaldo Green Tech and Ansaldo Nucleare. In particular, Ansaldo Green Tech has interesting prospects, because it is included in the European programmes on green hydrogen and in the PNRR itself, therefore in the energy transition process that the European Union is promoting. After this insight, what can be done now to prevent this crisis from turning into a loss of production capacity and job losses and employment levels? Before making my proposal, both to tell you how this reality is in the heart of Genoa, the National Association of Italian Partisans (ANPI) has also made a statement. You may wonder what the ANPI has to do with an industrial crisis. Ansaldo, even at the time of the Resistance, was a factory that had many dead partisans, so even now on April 25 there is a great ceremony. The Ansaldo brand is therefore included in the Italian industry and has a strong meaning; therefore there is also something symbolic in the concern, as well as a real element. Confindustria, Federmanager, trade unions, military chaplains have intervened, which are an important reality: in Genoa there are military chaplains in the factories. All this to say what the proposal is. Cash deposits and loans is the majority shareholder. In this case, of course, we need a recapitalisation plan, but we also need to help to review an industrial plan that was geared towards a scenario that is no longer there. You're gonna say managers have to do this. That's true, but there are times when state synergies can be made, for example A2A needs gas turbines, and Enel needs them. I therefore believe that there is the possibility of helping this management by directing and helping the industrial plan. I shall conclude my speech on a case that the workers of Genoa are remembering strongly at the moment. There was a moment, in the years 2007-2008, when the Fincantieri plant in Genoa was said to be closed in Sestri Ponente, also a symbolic element in the heart of the city. There was a huge mobilization of the city, even taxi drivers went around with the inscription: we save Fincantieri. This battle has certainly helped to save that establishment, which is now full of work, but it has also served others. At that moment when there was little work on the civil sector, there will be a naval law based on the needs of the Navy: 5.6 billion to build that part of the fleet that by now the Navy had to resign. So he made a certain investment in time rather than uncertain. This has allowed Fincantieri to have a full of work in the military within that it has been able to distribute on the yards of the civil field and not only Genoa, but also to Civitavecchia and Ancona, that it has saved those yards that then have begun to work again. Think what a disaster it would have been to close them! Ansaldo's situation is different: we are not talking about a company that has the civilian and the military and can be done in some way compensation, but it is a company that makes strategic products for a project also of the state of energy differentiation. I therefore believe that efforts must be made to be creative in order to find a revival and not to leave such an important and strategic reality in real difficulty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u56	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, in recent years as a Member of Parliament I have chosen to bring to institutions the needs of the territory, in particular the Province of Salerno which, like many wonderful Italian realities, especially in the South, deserves opportunities for development and progress. From this point of view, two issues have guided my activity more: I am referring to the reform of judicial geography, with the reopening of the courts abolished in 2012 and the ambitious objective of achieving an upgrade of infrastructure and transport, in particular a railway connection to the airport of Salerno-Costa d'Amalfi. Compared to the first argument, the situation of the Province of Salerno, after the closure of the court of Sala Consilina, is not different from that of many other territories that have suffered a impoverishment, not only of the services offered to citizens and operators of the sector, but also in terms of culture of legality and presence of the institutions. Like the Province of Salerno, so many realities have had to deal with the effects of those choices of the past guided only by an alleged saving of public expenditure. In the work of the Justice Commission on draft law No 2139 at my first signature, which proposed a delegation to the Government for a reorganization of judicial geography, I was able to share this battle also with colleagues from other regions and other political forces, taking full awareness that the problem is widespread throughout the national territory and the need for a reform intervention is increasingly urgent. For the future I can guarantee my greatest determination and a renewed commitment with the strength of experience gained and the awareness of working for the good of the community. With regard to the second topic, I remember with satisfaction the commitment last assumed by the Government - in occasion of the conversion of the decree infrastructures and transports - to evaluate the opportunity of a railway station adjacent to the airport of Salerno-Costa d'Amalfi along the route already existing Salerno-Reggio Calabria. The importance of strategic works for the sustainable development of the territories cannot be underestimated, even more in reality boasting environmental, landscape, historical, artistic and gastronomic excellences. Progress in terms of infrastructure is a full right for these places, and it is the only way to allow tourism to develop and be a flywheel of economic and social wealth. These are very important challenges which, if pursued, generate incalculable waterfall benefits. Mr President, I will continue to devote my energies to these issues which put the community and the territories at the centre, together with many other battles, always for the good of the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-460.ana.u58	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 10 August, at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.20 p.m.)
