ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u4	I communicate that on 22 February the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law with amendments to Decree-Law 30 December 2021, n 228, laying down urgent provisions on legislative terms" (2536).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2390. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Parrini, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u6	Mr President, with your permission and with confidence in the understanding of my fellow Members, I would like to stick to the report that has been tabled, perhaps with a brief reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u7	There are no members to speak in general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u10	Mr Parrini, rapporteur. Mr President, I am not going to abuse the faculty that you grant me. I would just like to thank the members of the Commission. We have done a choral work on this measure, of which I would like to stress only one characteristic: it is the first measure with which Parliament follows in an organic way and carried out an appeal-monitor of the Constitutional Court on the need to increase the guarantees of citizens. It seems to me to be a significant fact and I hope that we can have a response to this kind of behaviour also in other matters raised by the Court and which are to our attention these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u11	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendment, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Pending the expiry of the sitting of 20 minutes from the beginning of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 9.52 p.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u12	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 3,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u13	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u14	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u17	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, my statement is symbolic, because I have no voice. However, I would like our position to be clear. The measure that we are about to vote on stems from the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 48 of 2021, with which the Consultative Committee called for a gap in judicial protection of the electoral process preparatory to the general elections. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u18	Colleagues, I would ask you, since your colleague has a problem of lowering his voice, of letting him speak and of silence. You can always deliver the text, Senator Bressa. Anyway, I got the volume of the microphone up.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u19	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Thank you, Mr President. This is the first time that the Commission has used the provision of Rule 139 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, asking the President to award a judgment of the Court not to accept it; this is a very important fact. What is even more important is that there has been unanimous approval. This is perhaps the most complete and virtuous example of the follow-up to a Court ruling. In substance, the option of introducing a new exclusive jurisdiction of the administrative court was chosen. The time frame has been set within ten days and all procedures are such as not to affect the outcome of the elections. I'd say it was a good job.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u22	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, with the measure we are voting on today we finally remedy an indisputable as problematic lack of protection present in our system in the matter of preparatory procedure for political elections, introducing a special rite in the code of the administrative process. Allow me to say that this bill is a clear demonstration that, when there is sharing in substance and method on the part of all the parliamentary groups, the results are not only there, but there are also results in rapid times. With this measure we have shown that Parliament can and can do well. [[Brusio]] Ma'am, can I have some silence? Excuse me, but I'm having a hard time intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u23	Senator Sbrollini, I know that your words deserve great attention and I hope that colleagues are also convinced, that I would ask you to help her to be heard by lowering the tone of voice or eliminating chatter.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. As we know, the draft law under consideration constitutes a very timely intervention, which intertwines the sensitive matter of the preparatory procedure for elections with the question of the division of jurisdiction between ordinary courts and administrative courts and, more generally, between subjective rights and legitimate interests. As is also apparent from the report itself, this is an intervention that stems from an external thrust, that of the Constitutional Court, which, in its judgment n° 48 of 2021, called on Parliament to legislate on the subject. It is precisely with this judgment that the Constitutional Court has laid the foundations for a profound rethinking of the litigation on the preparatory procedure for the general elections. He did so on the basis of the interpretation of Article 66 of the Constitution, which imputes to the Chambers the so-called judgment on the admission certificates of its members. A more restrictive interpretation would like the whole electoral procedure and its findings to be seen in the Chambers themselves as the judge of their training process. However, we must deal with the development of the Italian legal system on the preparatory stages of the electoral procedure, i.e. those relating to the collection of subscriptions, the presentation of the nominations of the electoral lists and symbols, but in general to all the formalities prior to the opening of the seats, the holding of the electoral consultations and the scrutiny of the votes expressed which have long been in search of a judge. This is the emptiness that we must fill today. This judge cannot be the Chambers, because, in any case, one wants to consider them, they are not ontologically able to ensure full, effective and timely protection to the subjective situations and to the objective needs of constitutional importance that come at stake during the preparatory procedure for the elections. Any form of delayed protection at the end of the elections is wholly unfit to guarantee the candidate's interest in participating in a particular electoral consultation without prejudice to the medium term. Therefore, the solution offered by the Court to combine Article 66 in a harmonic letter and the supreme principle of access to the judge, at least in relation to the preparatory electoral procedure, is balanced in our opinion. The first Commission has worked hard on this in recent months - and I thank Mr Parrini for that - precisely in order to finally provide for ad hoc legislation on jurisdiction in electoral disputes before the administrative court. I would like to thank the Commission and, more generally, this Parliament not only because we have taken the critical comments of the judge of laws seriously, but also because of the spirit of loyal cooperation which must always mark relations between the institutions and also for more concrete reasons. It is all the more essential, especially at this particular historical and institutional moment, that Parliament retain its role. We cannot afford to give up adequate responses to repeated stresses from outside. Parliament cannot risk becoming the victim - indeed, in this case, I would say, the creator - of its own self-exclusion vis-à-vis other institutional entities. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying in this way that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour, and I hope that this modus operandi, which Parliament has shown its ability to implement with this measure, can also be extended to other issues, on which we need to put our hands immediately, so that Parliament itself, in its own role, can provide answers which they can no longer wait for. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u27	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, this draft law comes to the House after a fruitful work done in the Commission and, moreover, comes from a bill signed by representatives of several groups. I would like to thank President Parrini, rapporteur for the measure, and my colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this text, who responds to a decision of the Constitutional Court that noted the lack of judicial protection in the preparatory proceedings for the elections for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. The preparatory process, in other words, is the fundamental passage of presentation of symbols and lists. In this way there will be the same guarantees as today, with the same speed, and in addition there will also be a further possibility of protecting the interests of some formation and party who want to submit lists, providing a further opportunity to defend and assert their rights. This is not so well known to the general public, but certainly very important: we know in the past of problematic facts, which then have to be addressed - as has been said just now - even after the electoral result has been achieved, that is, in times that are obviously no longer adequate. At this point, what can I say? Since the aspect of electoral regulations has also been settled, as Brothers of Italy we believe it is appropriate to go and vote and give the Italians the floor. This would prevent the Government from having to put its trust in all the measures it presents (i.e. the majority of those which Parliament is examining), going against what President Mattarella said in his inaugural speech. Everyone applauded him, and we applauded him on this passage. Some people, however, probably did not understand this, because they continue to do exactly what the President has asked them not to do, and not for his own personal taste, but because the Constitution provides for an important and decisive role for Parliament and, indeed, entrusts Parliament with the power and power to make laws, in accordance with Article 70 of the Constitution. For this reason too, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, in the hope that the electoral process, so modified and perfected, can be implemented as soon as possible, in order to give the word to the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u30	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today is a very important day, which determines the approval of a bill that concerns us all, parties and citizens, in the highest task we are called to perform: our right to vote to decide who will rule the country. In 2021, the Constitutional Court noted some important issues, in the context of the so-called preparatory electoral dispute, referring to disputes relating to acts of the preparatory process for elections, in which the admission of lists or candidates is included. Moreover, it is the Constitution that tells us what are the principles of democratic representativeness and the free exercise of the right to vote, interpreted by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. It was the Constitutions that guaranteed the autonomy of parliamentary assemblies in decisions concerning disputes concerning the admission of their members and, therefore, of those who are proclaimed elected. I would also like to mention what is highlighted in judgment No 48 of 2021, which has already been referred to by other Members. As emerges from the work of the constituent assembly, Article 66 does not at all deprive the ordinary judge, as a natural judge of rights, of the competence to know of the violation of the right of passive electorate in the pre-election stage, when neither of the elected members of a parliamentary assembly nor of their titles of admission are considered. The so-called passive electorate is the essential aspect of citizens' participation in democracy, which is a fundamental political and democratic right as set out in the Constitution. The law that we are about to adopt, with the strong vote in favour of the Democratic Party, comes to fill a gap of judicial protection that concerns the most important elections, the political ones. Parliament is following calls from the Constitutional Court, but also from the Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs, shared by all the parliamentary groups, thus intervening in the preparatory procedure for the general elections. I would like to emphasise in particular Article 3 which defines the time limits for the pre-election of citizens resident abroad to exercise their right to vote, in order to prevent decisions which are too close to the date of the elections following the introduction of the new judicial remedy. All the terms, since the elections were held, have been advanced by five days and some have been reduced. As stated in the above-mentioned judgment of the Constitutional Court, there was therefore no legislative framework to ensure timely access to judicial protection against decisions in cases affecting the law, such as rebuttals of lists or declarations of incandidability, stating the presence of a free zone from constitutional justice, and the justice tout-court, at least in its effective and timely dimension, which is not acceptable in a rule of law. The right to vote of Italian citizens, including those residing abroad, is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. Let me remind you in this House that today is about to fill an important lack, the need to ensure parliamentary representation also for citizens belonging to historical minorities with appropriate constitutional, non-ordinary measures. The Constitution, as we know, protects linguistic minorities with appropriate rules. For the Slovenian party, which I am honored to represent thanks to the Democratic Party, there is an obligation of the State to facilitate the election of a representative in the two chambers. Ensuring the right to stand would be an important implementation of our tout-court democracy. It will therefore be important to conceive the law that we are about to approve as necessary to ensure a pre-election justice that guarantees voters in their proposals and choices, defining a single deadline for all acts of the preparatory procedure, for the appeal or appeal, so as to make possible the definition of the entire judgment within eight days of the publication of the contested measure, maintaining the principle of its finality. Parliament therefore calls upon the Constitutional Court, with the hope that we will make our own and read in the introductory report, that this draft law may inaugurate a new season of fruitful and constructive institutional dialogue between Parliament and the judge of laws. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we must not underestimate the very important measure that we are going to vote on. Anyone who has had experience of presenting electoral lists and what sometimes happens, even after, with reference to nominations and exclusions, knows perfectly well that we were moving in a sort of limbo, in which there were possibilities of recourse to electoral commissions and to the court of appeal, but with frankly unsure procedures. On this, fortunately, has arrived a fair signal of the Constitutional Court, with the judgment n. 48 of 2021, with which the Consulta has found the lack of a legislative discipline that assures what is necessary when the lists are presented and there are reliefs and exclusions, that is the timely access to the judicial protection against decisions that can be much, but very damaging of the right of passive electorate. Beware that, in some cases, and not uncommonly, this has greatly affected overall electoral outcomes. All this, in fact, has an impact on the most important moment of a democratic system, that of the elections, which we absolutely cannot underestimate. The Court has made this point and has strongly pointed out the lack of legislative discipline in this area. We would like to thank President Parrini, who took responsibility for the legislative initiative, which was then signed by all the parliamentary groups, not only to fulfil the signal made, but also to finally fill this which is a real vacuum in the preparatory process for the political elections. The draft law in question introduces a special ritual in the administrative process code. The procedure is outlined in the article. Of course, we are talking about the preparatory electoral process, which is exactly what we have seen and there is currently a vacuum. Moreover, it is introduced among the matters of exclusive jurisdiction of the administrative court and the TAR of Lazio is chosen as the competent regional administrative court. As you can see from Article 2, this is a very quick procedure, the deadlines of which are very short: two days for the appeal and also for the appeal to the Council of State against the decision of the TAR. Article 3 of the draft law also deals with preparatory electoral procedures with regard to nationals residing abroad. I think it's an absolutely necessary bill. We are, among other things, at the end of the parliamentary term. Of course, I do not lose hope that we will be able to move forward with a new electoral law, but in the meantime we are at least trying to fill the gaps in the protection of the preparatory procedure for the political elections, in the specific case of the passive electorate, and, in general, in the matter - in my view, more serious - of the recusal of the lists. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Mixed-Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u36	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the proposal we are considering is about the preparatory procedure for the general elections, introducing a special rite in the administrative process code. As my fellow Members have said a great deal, this intervention was necessary following a decision of the Constitutional Court, No 48 of 2021, which pointed out that judicial protection in this particular area was lacking. The Court therefore called on the legislator to remedy this vacatium. To this end, this proposal was signed by all the representatives of the Groups within the 1st Commission. The position of Forza Italia has been extensively illustrated in the Commission by the valuable intervention of my colleague, Mr Pagano, who has made a qualifying and substantial contribution to the final drafting of the proposal that we are considering today. Ultimately, the intervention is certainly to be welcomed, as it contains simplifications to the administrative procedure in sensitive matters and often subject to appeals, such as that of the electoral procedure. The main issue is the reduction in the time limits for appeals and decisions. Ultimately, there is a more serenity in the electoral process, in anticipation of an electoral competition which must be based exclusively on the proposals and contents of the lists and candidates. The measure introduces elements of certainty within the administrative procedure which, as a whole, must be defined within eight days: between appeal, outcome, appeal and decision of appeal; therefore, absolutely short deadlines, compatible with the matter on which they intervene. In order not to repeat what has already been said in this House in the course of explanations of vote, in thanking Mr Pagano for the work he has done in the Commission, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Parrini, and all my colleagues who have made an important contribution, I am announcing the support of the Forza Italia Group for this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u39	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the measure we are preparing to vote is part of a fruitful dialogue between constitutional bodies, particularly between the Constitutional Court and the Italian Parliament. The measure represents the outcome of the harmonious work - I must stress this - of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which collected the request of the Constitutional Court contained in a judgment of 2021. The judgment in question outlines and clarifies the relationship between Article 66 of the Constitution and the rules governing the submission of electoral lists. On the whole of the above-mentioned rules - the Court recalls - there has been a consolidation of a case-law approach according to which, in relation to the decisions of the central office, there is an absolute lack of jurisdiction both of the ordinary court and of the administrative court. In practice, with regard to the disputes arising at the time of the submission of the lists - the Court observes - the game is played exclusively between the electoral offices and the central electoral office and the Junta of the elections. The Constitutional Court, however, has made it clear - on the one hand - that Parliament's autodicia and its exclusive competence cannot go as far as the disputes that arise before the election, because at that stage there is still no need to defend the autonomy of the Chambers that - as we know - is the basis of the autodicia. At the same time - the Court recalls - the decision-making activity of the electoral offices is an administrative activity, not judicial (iurisdictio means to rule on the outcome of a dispute in a third party position, applying the fundamental principles to protect the parties to the trial). Election offices do not engage in judicial activity. The Court, in that judgment, even though it denied the constitutional illegitimacy of the norms for which it was used, has emphasized therefore that there is a lack of protection - there was and in a few minutes there will be no more - because, indeed, in the presence of a dispute at the outcome of the presentation of the lists, no judge worthy of this name is called to judge. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has collected this indication by means of the instrument of the deal assigned and has prepared a text, which it proposes today to the Assembly, which dissolves the node and entrusts to the administrative court the task of deciding the disputes that should arise to the outcome of the presentation of the lists. In addition, the Commission has been very careful to set very short deadlines for decisions to be taken in good time to enable the applicants, possibly victorious, to participate in the electoral procedure. It is obvious that any decision taken after the elections would be late. To decide late means not to give protection to the one who is right. This measure is therefore very important, certainly from a technical point of view, because it is the result of the dialogue I have just mentioned, but also because it allows us to fill a gap in terms of protecting the interests of all of us, not as Members of Parliament, but as citizens. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u42	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, the measure before us has a title which seems to announce a complex, particularly technical content (the provisions on judicial protection in the electoral process preparatory to the elections of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic). Colleagues, it is therefore our duty to inform the outside of this House that this is a measure which basically constitutes a simple but very important issue - as my fellow Members have mentioned in previous speeches - namely the need to follow up a warning from the Constitutional Court. The latter, in its judgment, found a lack of judicial protection in relation to the possible litigation that can be created in the preparatory electoral procedure, so, in the case of recusal of lists and incandidability, those who now intend to resort have only an administrative remedy, or resort to the central office or the national electoral office. The Constitutional Court has, on the other hand, found the need for strong judicial protection that is attributable - as is prescribed by our law - to a natural judge who can only be the administrative judge, as the Consulta herself acknowledged in previous judgments. The important issue that we want to highlight here, because it is also topical, is precisely the dialogue that exists between the Constitutional Court and another constitutional body, such as Parliament. The Court has in many cases indicated the path to be followed by the legislator, while respecting the margins and discretion which the legislator must have in pursuing this objective in the parliamentary debate. It is important because the Constitutional Court has done so in various ways, with recent judgments as well, setting a date by which an unconstitutional ruling would have taken place (i.e., if the legislator had not done so by that date, the Court would certainly have declared that measure unconstitutional). We have very specific examples of this, such as the issue of life imprisonment and suicide assistance. There are, therefore, very important judgments that the Court has issued, because it is following the evolution of society and our daily life, which needs rules. This call to the legislator, therefore, cannot fall into the void, as often happens and has happened in many other cases. The importance of this law lies in the fact that political forces have decided, in a concrete and operational way, to follow up the warning of the Constitutional Court and to ensure that a vacuum is filled. Of course, this has been done - and I too would like to point out this - following an investigation in the Commission, an assigned affair that gave the Commissioners the opportunity to listen to constitutionalists and experts, to make an opinion, to read in the reports the history of the affair, of what has been called a knot that has also been the subject of a previous law, but never really resolved. Now all those who, at the end of the final adoption of this law, will have to appeal to their courts to see any disputes concerning fundamental rights satisfied - we are talking about the effectiveness of political rights and the passive electorate, which is a very important issue - with the use of an administrative judge will benefit from that timeliness that cannot be in other cases. The Court has also examined the role that the Board responsible for the checks provided for in Article 66 of the Constitution may have in relation to this. The difference, however, is substantial: we are talking about disputes that arise before the general elections are held (so in the preparatory procedure), while the Junta intervenes determining the correctness of the elections (so, basically, the requirements for eligibility), but after the elections. There is therefore no overlap, but a distinction of roles that must be maintained. The Court then dwells on another important fact, on which the 5 Star Movement intends to intervene, namely the regulation of signatures for the submission of lists. This measure examines and fills the gap of judicial protection, entrusting the administrative court - and modifying the administrative process - the aspect of protection, but lacks the implementation and the pursuit of the objective of regulating signatures. It is a fact known to all that young political movements and new parties often fail, in different times and in different ways, to present the necessary signatures in order to ensure the effective representativeness of their citizens and of the voters who support them. It is therefore essential to review the possibility of guaranteeing this space, and we must do so. I mean, by our strength, to present a bill to modify, make it simpler, the presentation of lists and guarantee representativeness, which is a goal we must never lose and which is in our DNA. Mr President, I would therefore like to announce that the 5 Star Movement is in favour of this measure, which I hope will be the first of a series of measures which will gather other warnings from the Constitutional Court, which intends to follow up this kind of cooperation between constitutional bodies in an even more fruitful way, so as to go to the concrete and practical needs of society. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u43	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we should suspend work on the sanitisation of the House. If there are no contraindications, however, I would anticipate the speeches on subjects not on the agenda, and then suspend and resume work at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u46	ROMANO (M5S). Mr President, the reports tell us of daily accidents at work, unfortunately also fatal, and of aggression against those who have the task of ensuring that preventive obligations are respected. The Government, with the recent Decree-Law No 146 of 2021, has moved on the safety front in the working environments, bringing back to the state the totality of the competences and strengthening the instruments of contrast to the exploitation and protection of the workers. However, I would like to point out that the plans for strengthening and efficiency in labour supervision provided for by the PNRR are not funded. It is also paradoxical that the staff of the National Labour Inspectorate and the National Agency for Active Labour Policies, to which the collective agreement of the Ministries applies by law, have remained outside the scope of the harmonisation of administrative allowances for ministerial staff. It is easy to proclaim mourning for the victims at work, closeness to those who suffer an offense to their dignity as a worker and solidarity with those who are called to oversee legality among thousands of difficulties. However, with the policy of zero cost the proclamations remain, but the objectives are not achieved, damaging and mocking the citizens who trust in the pursuit of those objectives. I have tabled two parliamentary questions on both of the issues that have just been raised, with a prompt response, but above all with a serious commitment, not only in words, to the protection of work and workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u48	In this way we exhaust the two interventions of the Movimento 5 Stars, which has a particular predisposition for the interventions at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u50	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the Major Hospital in Bologna, one of the first clinics dedicated to those who have recovered from a more serious form of SARS-Cov-2 infection was born, starting with patients admitted to intensive care. After clinical healing, in fact, some patients suffer from long-term effects, the so-called long Covid. The center comes from an idea of the doctors of the intensive care departments, but it develops for the pressing demands of the citizens who suffer from long-term disorders deriving from this serious pathology, with a syntomatological involvement of different organs and apparatuses (respiratory and cardiovascular in the first place), as well as the physiological-rehabilitative aspect and, not least, the psychological one. Hence the need to plan and organize a clinic called post - long Covid center, able to give a complete response to people in difficulty, who often lack a reference, thus avoiding them having to organize a long and exhausting tour among the various specialists, and having on the contrary a single point of reference. It is necessary to build a path governed and coordinated by this clinic, including the various specialties and professionalism, able to give patients the right answers to the health needs they require. Long Covid's symptoms - as scientifically demonstrated - are multiform in its clinical manifestations, complex in its diagnosis and variable in its therapeutic approach. These clinical manifestations also include difficulties in walking and fragility in normal daily life activities. In some cases, simply getting up or getting dressed can also become a problem. Common elements are also fatigue, easy fatigue, difficulty in concentration: all symptoms that may have a different severity and ability to affect the quality of life. There are also psychological disorders, such as anxiety disorders and depressions, all linked to dreams lived in intensive therapies. It is almost necessary to defeat an important monster that has been created in their mind (this is the name used). I wonder and ask all of us why a citizen of Bologna can have a post-long Covid center, equipped and functioning, and a citizen from Campania or Sicilian, just to do... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Can I finish, Mr. President? Thank you. Also on the basis of these simple considerations I have presented a legislative and amending measure which provides for the establishment of a post-long Covid center in each ASL. I hope that my initiative, which is shared by many, will be accepted and implemented.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u51	Surely, and I hope so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u52	MAUTON (M5S). A simple and concrete answer... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u53	I would ask you to respect the timing of the sitting's speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u56	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to represent what has been happening for years now, although the momentum has certainly increased at the moment. Documents and circulars are circulated by the Ministry of Education throughout the national territory, with poetic lawfulness by the school leaders, with indications that are those known of the gender ideology, using for example the schwa, now known, or the asterisk. In view of this, Mr President, I would like to make two requests. The first is that the Government intervenes immediately with urgent documents and circulars, so that clarity is made. The second is to be able to discuss Question No 4-06228, which had already been tabled on 4 November 2021 on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u57	Thank you for the extreme synthesis. I suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 10.46 p.m. and resumed at 12.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u58	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the crisis between Russia and Ukraine. I call Mr Di Maio, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u59	Mr President, kind senators, kind senators, two weeks after my last information to Parliament, I am going back to reporting today, in this House, on the Ukrainian crisis: a crisis that has undergone a strong and worrying acceleration, which puts at risk the stability and prosperity of the world and, above all, threatens the international order and freedom. The question on the table cannot be limited to a mere territorial dispute. It is not just the important European security framework that is at stake. Our fundamental values are at stake. Showing ourselves yielding today would mean paying a very expensive price tomorrow: our will for dialogue in firmness is based precisely on this conviction. I would also like to point out that in recent weeks the main Western leaders have made every effort to achieve a diplomatic solution: this is demonstrated by the meeting, the calls between Biden and Putin, the various contacts between President Draghi and Putin and Zelensky, the mission of President Macron as President of the European Union and the most recent visit of Chancellor Scholz to Kiev and Moscow. Despite the various attempts, witnessed by these efforts, which covered a considerable period of time, at the end of the Olympic truce the President of the Russian Federation decided to violate the territorial integrity of Ukraine. This morning we coordinated with President Draghi on the next steps to be taken to promote a diplomatic solution. We are committed to the maximum in multilateral channels of dialogue. However, we believe that there can be no new bilateral meetings with the Russian summits until there are signs of relaxation of tension: a line adopted in the last few hours also by our European allies and partners. I will therefore summarize the latest developments and reactions of Italy, the European Union and other international partners and actors. I will try to explain here today the director of our action and the prospects towards which we continue to work. As you know, in a climate already characterized by extreme tensions, the crisis between Russia and Ukraine recorded a further and dramatic stage on Monday evening, when President Putin, welcoming an appeal from the Duma, signed a decree of recognition of the self-proclaimed Republics of Donetsk and Lugansk, in eastern Ukraine. The Kremlin's measure followed by a few hours the meeting of the Russian National Security and Defence Council, which unanimously approved the same appeal. The move had been anticipated by President Putin to President Macron and Chancellor Scholz, as representatives of the Normandy format (of which Ukraine, Russia, France and Germany are members), the main negotiating framework for the implementation of the Minsk agreements. The decision of Moscow seriously undermines the Minsk agreements which provide that the authorities of Donetsk and Lugansk are subordinate to those of Kiev, albeit with broad autonomy of decision-making. Recognizing the independence of the self-proclaimed separatist republics undermines the territorial integrity and full sovereignty of Ukraine, which was already called into question in 2014 with the illegal annexation of the Crimean peninsula. We condemn Moscow's decision to send in the territories of the two separatist republics a contingent of troops with so-called peacekeeping functions. It is a gesture that risks exacerbating an already very tense situation. I remember an estimated Russian presence along the borders with Ukraine between 170 and 190,000 units. Furthermore, in this context, the decision by the Moscow and Minsk authorities to continue the joint exercises which should have ended on Sunday is of great concern. There are about 30,000 units of the Russian armed forces engaged in these exercise activities. At the request of President Putin, yesterday the Council of the Russian Federation granted permission to send Russian military forces abroad. In addition, again yesterday, in press conference Putin stated that he recognised the claims of Donetsk and Lugansk on the territory of the whole Donbass, well beyond the Russian-phone component present in the region, thus including areas currently under the control of the Ukrainian armed forces and calling for recognition of the illegal annexation of Crimea. This dual development risks opening the way to a large-scale Russian military operation in Ukraine, which could be preceded or accompanied by hybrid actions, focused mainly on possible cyber attacks; analysis confirmed by internal sources of the Alliance. Kiev's concern for the naval exercises underway in the Black Sea and the Azov Sea remains high. These are unprecedented exercises also due to the blockade of maritime traffic that prevents flows to Ukrainian ports. In view of these possible scenarios, we have asked our fellow countrymen to leave Ukraine immediately with the commercial means available. However, we decided, in coordination with our European partners, to leave our embassy in Kiev fully operational. As soon as it learned of the measure adopted by President Putin on Monday evening, the Government publicly expressed its firmest condemnation, as this step constitutes a serious obstacle to the search for a diplomatic solution to the very serious crisis in progress. In the face of the Kremlin's decision, we reiterated Italy's support for Ukraine's integrity and full territorial sovereignty in its internationally recognised borders and appealed to the parties to return to the negotiating table in the appropriate formats. Unilateral initiatives drive away the achievement of stability and security conditions in the region. Yesterday, the European High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrel, with our active support, issued a statement on behalf of the 27 Member States of the European Union strongly condemning the Russian decision to recognise the two separatist republics. It also called on Moscow to reconsider its decision and to sit at the negotiating table within the Normandy format and the Trilateral Contact Group of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). The European Union yesterday adopted a package of restrictive measures against Russia, including three types of sanctions: those affecting individuals, those affecting entities responsible for the violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity, and the stop to any kind of trade with the separatist republics. Yesterday, President Biden signed an executive order banning new investments, exchanges and financing by US players to, from or in the separatist regions. This type of order confers authority to impose sanctions on any person determined to operate in those areas of Ukraine. In last night's public intervention, the American President emphasized the compactness of the allies and confirmed his full support for Ukraine in the face of what Washington considers to be a threat of imminent attack. The United Kingdom has extended to the separatist republics the sanctioning regime applied to Crimea: London has sanctioned four Russian banks involved in the financing of employment, as well as three individuals considered very close to the Kremlin. In this situation, which can change rapidly, it is important to maintain close coordination already in place with the partners of the European Union and NATO allies. Last but not least, the Union's Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council and the meeting between the Foreign Ministers of the G7 countries, which I attended yesterday in Paris, demonstrate this. On the NATO level, Secretary-General Stoltenberg condemned the Russian decision on the same evening of 21 February, calling it a further erosion of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and a violation of the Minsk agreements. He also invited Moscow to choose the path of diplomatic confrontation and to reduce its military device in the area. Stoltenberg then convened, yesterday morning, an extraordinary meeting of the Atlantic Council, for a timely confrontation between allies on the latest developments, just a few days from last week's NATO Defense Minister, attended by Minister Guerini, and with a view to possible further international meetings. The Secretary-General of the United Nations also expressed his concern at the Russian decision on the status of certain areas of the Ukrainian regions of Donetsk and Lugansk, calling for a peaceful settlement of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, in line with the Security Council's resolution No 2202 of 2015, which called on all parties to implement the Minsk agreements in full. Senators, the Russian-Ukrainian crisis is of course at the heart of our country's international action. I discussed this at the Brussels Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, and we also met with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, Mr Kuleba. As President of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I publicly supported the statement by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Burić, strongly condemning the decision of the Russian authorities to recognise the two separatist entities, stressing that unilateral initiatives are not a response to the crisis. Yesterday afternoon - as I mentioned earlier - I took part in the G7 meeting of Foreign Ministers on the development of the crisis, during which we coordinated on the restrictive measures to be taken in response to Russia's actions. The extraordinary meeting of Foreign Ministers of the European Union, which I have always attended in Paris, then endorsed a comprehensive package of restrictive measures which - as I have already said - includes a ban on imports and exports and investments in the separatist republics, economic and financial sanctions for Russia and individual designations of political representatives of the media, military and economic operators. Further restrictive measures could be taken in the case of other actions by Russia. In this regard, I would remind you that Italy has been working for months in Europe, together with the United States, to adopt a system of possible sanctions of various kinds and intensity, which are marked by effectiveness and firmness in reporting to Moscow the very high costs and consequences that an offensive would bring. In order to be effective, sanctions must act as a deterrent against further military action and therefore - in our opinion - be sustainable, proportionate, gradual and directly linked to concrete and objective developments on the ground. We know that our entrepreneurs, from 2014 to today, have suffered heavy losses as a result of sanctions and we will work to limit the impact on our strategic and economic interests as much as possible. Aware of paying an important price for the protection of non-negotiable common values and principles, we are also aware of the deterrent value of restrictive measures, aimed at preventing Russia from further feeding tension on the ground. This would mean an even higher price for all actors at stake. It is essential, in this historical phase, in the light of recent events, to show the compactness of a European Union that is not conditioned by its values, as demonstrated by Germany's decision yesterday to suspend the Nord Stream 2 project. Yesterday in Paris we also discussed the possibility of holding a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Kiev and then decided to convene the Russian ambassadors in the European capitals to convey a message of firmness. In this situation, which could degenerate with very serious consequences for the security of our continent, I believe it is necessary to continue to make every effort to preserve the existing openings for a peaceful settlement of the crisis. We must avoid a war in the heart of Europe. As President Draghi also said, the path to dialogue remains essential. With this sense of urgency and with the aim of keeping the door open for dialogue, I went to Kiev and Moscow last week. I met Ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba, who expressed appreciation for the concrete testimony of our solidarity at such a delicate time for his country. I reiterated to him our strong support for Ukraine's territorial integrity and full sovereignty. Italy rejects the Russian attempt to restore spheres of influence on the European continent and underlines the validity of the principle of the open gate of NATO. I recalled that the Italian position with regard to Russia is also aimed at preserving a fair balance between the need for deterrents and firmness and the willingness to engage in constructive and genuine dialogue, aimed at seriously negotiating issues of common interest in order to defuse tensions. The Ukrainian authorities rely on the relations that our country has been able to weave with Russia, despite the serious tensions between Moscow and the Euro-Atlantic community. Kiev asks Italy to continue to take an incisive action against the Kremlin in the direction of a peaceful solution to the crisis. As a concrete follow-up to the visit to Kiev, we are considering the allocation of a financial contribution worth around 110 million euros, aimed at supporting the Ukrainian population and economy in areas to be agreed with the Kiev authorities. We also intend to make a contribution to the International Red Cross Committee for humanitarian interventions. Measures to support the Ukrainian armed forces through the supply of non-lethal materials, such as mine clearance, are also being studied. Italy has supported and continues to support humanitarian activities to assist the civilian population in the Donbass. We provide our contribution to international bodies engaged on the ground. I would also like to recall here our role in the organisation for security and cooperation in Europe. I want to say in this House that I am proud of the 15 Italians who continue to serve in the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, which is also located in areas of ongoing conflict and exchanges of fire between the parties. [[Applause]] We have on several occasions expressed Italy's commitment to continue to support the mission's mandate, which - as you know - carries out activities of detection and transparency on the ground. Observers identify - for example - violations of agreements by both parties and monitor possible provocations under false flag, which could exacerbate the conflict. They detect damage to critical and civil essential infrastructure, environmental hazards and the impact on the population of activities carried out by the parties. They provide, as far as possible, a credible and neutral picture of what happens in a context characterized by a contrast of narratives. On 17 February I went to Moscow to meet Foreign Minister Lavrov. In the course of the talks, we discussed in detail the most pressing issues connected with the current crisis, the security architecture and the strategic stability of Europe. I have reminded my interlocutor of the need to make every possible effort to achieve a diplomatic solution. I also strongly encouraged the continuation of the dialogue through new meetings of the NATO-Russia Council, after that of 12 January in the OSCE and bilaterally with the United States. With regard to Ukraine's possible accession to NATO, I reiterated the validity of open door policy as one of the fundamental features of the Washington Treaty, including Ukraine's freedom to make its own foreign policy and national security choices. I have reminded my interlocutor of the essentially defensive nature of NATO and the prospect of a continental security in which Russia has every interest in participating constructively, through existing institutional mechanisms, such as the NATO-Russia Council and the OSCE. These concepts were also touched on during the telephone talks between President Draghi and Presidents Putin and Zelenski last days. Italy wants to continue to make a concrete and effective contribution to the search for a diplomatic solution to the current crisis, in which our vital interests are at stake. The security architecture in Europe is the main object of some proposals made by Russia to the United States and NATO, which in turn responded by proposing their own proposals developed in the framework of an important coordination between the two sides of the Atlantic; a coordination to which Italy has made a strong contribution in order to seize a possible opportunity for diplomatic confrontation and dialogue with Moscow. On the Russian media, a text was released with Moscow's responses to the US counter-proposals. We hope that there will also be answers from Moscow to NATO's proposals and that on this basis - as I have already mentioned - a serious and constructive debate on the important and concrete issues of security will continue, despite the strong differences of principle. With our support, the European Union will implement capacity building programmes for the Ukrainian security forces, as agreed at the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday. In NATO, Italy is doing its part to reassure the allies of the East flank, from the Baltic to the Black Sea. And we consider contributing further to the adaptation of NATO's posture, of which unity and credibility at the political and military level must be maintained. In particular, today we are already present in Latvia, with a contingent of about 200 Army units, within the enhanced forward presence, and we carry out activities of enhanced air policing in Romania with about 130 personnel units. We also participate in the immediate reaction NATO naval force with important national maritime arrangements for exercises and surveillance activities in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. To the last Force generation conference of 17 January we have offered ulterior contributions, in particular to the permanent marine group of the NATO in the Mediterranean. This commitment - together with our contribution to the NATO missions in Kosovo and Iraq - currently makes Italy the first contributor to the Alliance's troops. We are ready to consider new reassurance measures for allies on the South-East flank and preliminary technical contacts have been established with the Hungarian and Bulgarian authorities. The current crisis scenario is part of a highly energy dependent environment. The European Union and the United Kingdom import 40% of all gas from Russia, but also Moscow is heavily dependent on energy export revenues and Europe is, in fact, its best customer. The Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline would offer Germany an alternative route to the Ukrainian route, but always linked to Russian supplies. As you know and as I said, Chancellor Scholz, in response to the worsening crisis, suspended yesterday the authorization procedures for the new pipeline. Russian gas arriving in Italy passes entirely through Ukrainian gas pipelines; one more reason to avoid the conflict. Unleashing the threat on Ukraine's supply, which has so far been for regular Italy, would also loosen the tensions in the markets which, as we know, have repercussions on gas prices. The current impact of this crisis on prices confirms the need for European coordination in the gas storage phase - an initiative that we have already followed in recent months - but also and above all for the formation of supply contracts. Such a crisis should lead Europe, in addition to increasing efforts on renewable energies, to speed up the launch of an energy union for gas supply contracts. Italy will be the protagonist in carrying out this project. The energy security of our continent passes through the freedom and sovereignty of all European actors. In conclusion, Madam President, we must be realistic: the succession of events is worsening an already delicate situation. That is why we must remain vigilant, responsive and ready to provide effective answers to be identified and put in place with our European partners and allies. Despite the gravity of the moment and the latest developments we are witnessing in these hours, we want to continue to focus on any diplomatic initiative that can prevent a war; a solution that we still believe is possible, even if with margins that shrink from day to day. First of all, an in-depth assessment must be made, especially with France and Germany, of the real prospects of Normandy and the trilateral contact group, in the light of Russia's severe blow to the Minsk agreements with the recognition of the separatist Republics. We will not miss our contribution to the negotiation and confrontation with Russia on Ukraine and, more generally, on European security through NATO and the OSCE. We will also ensure that the European Union is increasingly involved in a crisis that calls into question the security and stability of our continent. We support the resumption of a dialogue between the European Union and Russia at a level appropriate to the seriousness of the crisis, enhancing the role of Europe, a role which cannot only include the definition of restrictive measures, but must also be translated into a strong political initiative. As President Mattarella said on the occasion of the recent settlement speech, for many decades European countries have been able to enjoy the peace dividend created by European integration and increased by the failure of the Cold War. We cannot accept that now the wind of the clash is rising again in a continent that has experienced the tragedies of the First and Second World Wars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u60	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u61	Minister, we are pleased to hear from you that we will do everything to avoid war, but - as Noam Chomsky said - Russia is surrounded by the offensive weapons of the United States and no political leader could tolerate Ukraine joining a hostile military alliance. Here's the thing. We can also say this with the words of Prodi of 2015, which much more simply said that, if the goal was to bring Ukraine into NATO, then irreversible tensions would be created. Both Russia and the United States have an imperialist approach outside their borders, through military actions and systematic economic pressures; they use militarism, aggression and economic ties to maneuver international relations and criticize each other for the same behavior. The United States rightly criticizes Russia for being an autocracy, but they have no hesitation in overthrowing democratically elected governments if only these threaten their interests. They build and impose military bases; they engage in wars; they impose on their allies billionaire military spending, 2% of GDP, while many American citizens - but not only - are without health care, housing and food livelihood. Ukraine is only a pawn in this game, but the anachronistic arm of iron between Russia and the United States places Europe itself, and Italy first of all, in the middle as a pawn of the Atlantic Pact and it seems to me that this does not escape, Minister. Who benefits from this war but the United States to strengthen its political and military strength and supplant Russia in supplying gas to Europe with its very expensive supplies of liquid gas? The continuing incursions and pressures of the United States to the countries of the former Soviet Union for entry into NATO in recent decades - let's face it - have been a systematic support to the violations of the Minsk agreements and those assurances that America and the West made after the fall of the Berlin Wall to Russia. What was it, Minister, if not systematic provocations that could only lead to the situation we are living here and today, and this without any use for Europe, as you recognize? Already in a 1997 article on The New York Times, US diplomat Kennan foreshadowed the scenario that is emerging today, with the Ukrainian crisis, as a fatal mistake: an enlargement to the east of the Atlantic Alliance to the borders of Russia will turn - he said - into the biggest mistake of American politics since the end of the Cold War; a serious and useless mistake, given Russia's political weakness, and above all counterproductive for us Europeans - and this does not escape you, Minister - from all points of view. NATO should be dissolved: after eighty years it is no longer plausible and non-militarised and non-divisive alliances for peace and cooperation should be built, with international solidarity as a guiding principle, the objective of the United Nations Charter. Atlantism and alignment with NATO today place us in the subordinate and no longer tolerable capacity of military and cultural colonies; which harms a union of European countries and their social economy beyond all measures and prevents us from building the union of the European peoples that we would like. Today it would be necessary for Italy to ask, together with the other European countries, to make a commitment to say no to the enlargement of NATO. I know this is a difficult choice, but this would be a real peace choice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u62	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u63	Madam President, Minister Di Maio, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to ask ourselves whether the prophecy of a great Czechoslovak writer, Milan Kundera, is still relevant. Kundera claimed that the war in Europe had become anthropologically impossible, because by now the break between France and Germany had been completely healed. That was the outbreak of the great European wars for centuries. However, the crisis opened wide in its opposite mirror, and it has always seen - I repeat, always - as the protagonist of Putin's Russia: Chechnya, Crimea, Georgia, the support given in the crisis that opened between Armenia and Azerbaijan a few months ago. Mr Minister, it is worrying that you have confirmed - and you have done it correctly with crystal clear precision and with very clear words - that the ongoing conflict is a splinter that can strike at a wide range. We know that it is a splinter that can affect both geostrategic and economic balances, especially in the heart of Europe. It is a situation, if I follow his words and the course of his reasoning, not entirely dissimilar - which does not mean that the consequences are the same - to the one lived in Europe in 1938: a profound injury to international law; secondly, the recognition - then a little more - of the separatist regions, which had a nationalist vocation of a certain type; thirdly, the invasion, which was then full, while today it is a controlled invasion. The difference from then is that Germany was a great economic and industrial power, while Russia is a military power, but it is an economic dwarf. That's no small difference. It is also time, however, to interpret whether that Crimea, Chechnya, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan are hiding something different, that is, if they hide long-term objectives, being the current one of short-term or immediate period, and therefore an idea that the Russian Putinian summit pursues with a certain tendency and a certain constancy: to remove NATO from its borders - and it is a fact - to remove parliamentary democracies from its borders - and it is another fact - and to reason, as many precedents in the past centuries, returning to an idea of the great Russia. Over time, the idea of the great Russia had three objectives, which have variedly changed and which we can summarize today as follows: to remove NATO from the borders; to contain Islamic pressure from the South (which exists); to control and supervise China's relationship and power policy at the eastern borders of Russia. Today Russia is particularly presiding over the front that concerns us, with military means, but above all with an economic strategy that directly involves us. The risk to the West is that of a Russian-Chinese pickle - you did not evoke it, but it is a risk we face - which could redesign the geopolitical scenario, with considerable damage to American interests and of course also to European and Western interests. We know very well that defence policies are determined by foreign policy, and not vice versa. It is on the basis of foreign policy that we determine what defence policies should be. I say this because those who face this stage must do completely without the United Nations, which have now become an uncommentable body, with admirable words and adjectives justifiable within a Senate Chamber of the Republic. But that is precisely why and also why the European Union must determine what it is. In my area it is said: either meat or fish. It is not true, in fact, that the policies implemented with the PNRR and with the large investments have established a safe destiny. The sure fate could be what this Group (Italy Viva-PSI) has long supported in this House, namely to create a single finance minister, a single defence policy and a single foreign policy. This is to build a destiny for the European Union, for many reasons, not least - and I am going to conclude - because we know that the post-Yalta world is much more complex, articulated and complicated than the previous one. We know that the regional powers are growing and that the challenge between China and the United States is becoming more acute. Europe cannot only be a reliable partner and a founding entity of NATO, because the three major previous orders that have built the history of Europe (Westfalia, Vienna and Yalta) have disappeared and are destined not to reappear in the short term. We - I am talking about Italy - risk more than others, because of the Russian-Turkish influence in the Mediterranean, because we have opened the way to the silk route for the little we could - and we could use a little more restraining arguments - and because we depend on a part of the world for energy supplies. Before the no vax there were no TAPs and today I am happy that that category has been set aside, if not put in the basket. So you are right - and I have concluded - when you say that Italy and Europe must not show themselves to be yielding and that we must work for a political solution. With regard to graduated sanctions, I have some doubts about their graduality, because, if I see sanctions affecting individuals and not yet the States, when we admit that the sovereignty of a State has been damaged, I wonder if sanctions on individuals can be sufficient to address the problem and limit it. What is needed, in conclusion, if we do not want to show ourselves to be yielding, is a medium-term strategy that deals decisively, with Italy at the head, with the question of what Europe must be: whether meat or fish. In order to be meat or fish, it must decide to give itself a common defence policy; to be an integral part of NATO, but to do so with the autonomy that is not only that of a free market, but also of a whole set of countries that decide to give themselves a common destiny. I am referring to what we were at the end of World War II, thanks to great popular and Catholic statesmen; then we became it thanks to statesmen who combined different political ideas, including mine. Today, however, it is time to make a further decision, to exalt that story and make it evolve, because the time and season we live are not and will not be very happy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u64	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u65	Mr President, after me, Senator Fazzolari will explain more widely the position of Brothers of Italy. I would just like to point out that in these days, even in the press and in the course of television broadcasts, the political party leaders are asking themselves an imperfect question, asking whether we are pro-Russian or in favour of something else. For Brothers of Italy the answer is very simple: we are neither philorusians, nor philokinesis, nor philo-Arabic. If you really want to apply the concept of the thread, which - as Giorgia Meloni says - belongs more to puppets than to political forces, we are pro-Italian [[Applause]] At this stage, this means being, without and without but, in a position of accession to NATO and to the Western bloc. There's no argument about that. However, being led to safeguard Italian interests also means examining not only the position of today, for which - as the Minister has said, with whom I agree - we are certainly for the defence at all costs of the territorial and political integrity of the European States, Ukraine at the head at this time. We are also interested in understanding why we have come to this point. I remember the story of not many years ago, as far as Putin's relationship with Italy is concerned, of political friendship and not just personal friendship with Berlusconi, which is known and on which it is useless to return. But I remember George Bush's America had a completely different relationship with Putin at the time, so much so that we could then imagine that Russia could enter NATO, and we forgot it; while now, in order not to have NATO on the border, Putin is almost willing to declare a terrible war. I am a convinced Atlanticist, but the mistakes of some American administrations - especially those of Obama and Biden - must be strongly emphasized, because they have dramatized the confrontation with Russia, having facilitated and pushed Ukraine to the request to enter NATO. Many years ago I was Minister of Defence and I remember that at the NATO meetings that I attended I expressed strong doubts about the action that had already begun to approach Ukraine, or rather to promote Ukraine's rapprochement with NATO until it got there. It was clear that the advantages were much less than the dangers that this could have brought in relations with Russia. Then there is the problem of the role that we have always raised. This was well done by Senator Nencini, perhaps mindful of his party's main exponent, Craxi, who knew how to give meaning to the national identity. Perhaps he was the first sovereignist of Italy, Craxi, for that famous story, of which it is useless to remember the contours, in which, in front of the arrival of the American troops and planes, put the carabinieri around the airport. I wonder, however, why the European Union, today, cannot imagine a path, which we have long hoped for, aimed at giving itself a political role, rather than a role exquisitely aimed at giving some form of different pressure to the national states, on other matters. We would like the European Union to focus on a common military policy, a common foreign policy and a common fiscal line, and then leave more freedom to individual nations. On the other hand, this time too, we see the total absence of a diplomatic and geopolitical strategy for the European Union. For us, who are more pro-European than those who are pro-European in substance, moments like this demonstrate the need for the European Union to evolve, walk and go in a very different direction from the one it has followed so far. I believe that I have run out of time and therefore, remaining on the subject today on the agenda, I repeat that, if I look at the future of our nation and therefore of our children, I see, I imagine, I hope and I want an Italy strongly linked to the Western world, which knows how to hold to the values of freedom, democracy and independence, that someone would rather be implied. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u66	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the words of Mr Di Maio, whom I thank for his presentation, give a sense of the gravity of the situation and the escalation that is taking place at the borders with Ukraine, in Donbass. The crowding of troops at the border and the unprecedented military device, from the point of view of the Russian Navy, which holds almost in a kind of naval blockade the South of Ukraine, really make all the European Chancellors and the Atlantic Alliance worried. Even more serious is the live television broadcast the other day, or rather the two parts of that live broadcast, in which Putin sent very clear messages. On the one hand, in fact, the recognition of the self-proclaimed separatist republics, which for eight years had not recognized, marks a point of no return, tearing down the Minsk agreements and overheating the situation at levels that we had not seen in the post-cold war. That would be enough to say that the challenge is really at a very high level. They hit the way, when he says he does it not so much and not just to give a legal status - it is a typical obsession of Russian diplomacy to cut out a legal framework, in which he can define and say that a peace operation is being carried out - and it strikes even more the daring historical reconstruction. To demonstrate the non-existence of the Ukraine nation, in fact, it goes back twelve centuries, to the Rus' of Kiev, somehow rebuilding history. He does so by speaking to the Russian public, to say that, if he intervenes, he will do so to protect the oppressed Russian brothers. And he does this above all to indicate his design, with behind him not only the Russian flag, but also the flag of the Romanov, filing and severing the enemies of the people of the time of the Soviet Union and somehow presenting themselves as epigon of the Tsarist empire. I invite those who have not done so to see the video in which one of the heads of Russian intelligence services is seen being bullied by Putin himself, who accompanies him to change his mind and marry his. It is a clear message to Western public opinion and the European and Atlantic Chancellors: here I am the leader, I am the President of the Republic, I am the head of services, I am the head of the armed forces, there is no division of powers. And then, in the face of this test of strength, we need an adequate response in terms of responsibility on the part of the Europeans within the Atlantic Alliance. It serves by the European ruling classes. It serves within our Parliament by all the ruling classes and also in here. I say this because it is good to send to the attic banishments and charms towards the Russian authoritarian regime that has also brought someone in here to even say "I would gladly abandon two Mattarella in exchange for half Putin". Unacceptable. [[Applause]] All this must be put in the attic. We reset and open a new phase, the stage of responsibility. In 1949 we signed the Treaty of the Atlantic Alliance not only because on the horizon we saw the risks of instability from the point of view of the security and stability of our continent, in front of the Soviet Union and the Soviet bloc, but also because they were mindful of the Nazi-fascist oppression against the liberal democracies that found themselves for a common of values and principles. There is therefore no room for distinction, ambiguity and dangerous equidistantities. We know which side to be on. [[Applause]] We are with liberal democracies and even here there must be no distinction. I'm saying this because we saw Putin's M.O. We saw him when he occupied Georgia in 2008, arriving a few kilometers from Tbilisi and creating a de facto situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. So it was in Transnistria and Crimea. It has used these latent conflicts, which have also caused thousands and thousands of deaths, to raise issues for the debate on international balances. It does this to affirm the spheres of influence and to re-examine the European security architecture, on which both the Western side and within NATO are prepared to discuss. I understand and understand, in fact, that Tomahawk missiles in the missile shield of Romania and Bulgaria can be an element of insecurity on the part of Putin's Russia. But for us it can be the Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad, a handful of kilometers from the Polish borders, less than 100 kilometers from Gdansk, which should evoke something in the history of our continent. And then, in front of Putin's request to speak as equals with Biden and Xi Jinping, with the basic request to participate in the rewriting of a new international order, the things that Senator Nencini said very well before are worthwhile. If we want to play the game, it is time to throw our hearts past the obstacle, abandon the idea in which we can do everything in a Europe of 27. We need a political union, a foreign policy and a common security policy. [[Applause]] We will talk about this later: now is the time for the emergency and the compactness of the Western, Atlantic and European fronts. The Minister did well yesterday, taking part in the informal council, to represent the idea of a united Europe, which is because it is not true that it is going in scattered order. We are doing so on sanctions and we are all aware of the weight they could bring in perspective, in terms of the reprisal of the Russian regime towards our territories and our entrepreneurship. We all know that and we don't do it lightly. It is, however, a deterrent choice. You do not return to the Putin table with appeals to common sense and good heart: you return it with deterrent. This means being in NATO, making decisions, being ready to strengthen the arrangements, but above all intervening with the sanctions that we have heard from Minister Di Maio. These are sanctions - let's face it - certainly softer than those that the yellow-green government, with the then Minister of the Interior and vice-premier Salvini, has extended for three times. I would like to remind you of this, so that we all know that, when we are in a complex international scenario and we are ruling, we also make complicated and difficult decisions, which must be told honestly to the public. [[Applause]] From this point of view, we know - and I address you, Minister Di Maio - that we will have to do a very careful work on sanctions, defining them in a modular way - as is being done - depending on the de-escalation and escalation, in a very flexible way, trying to reduce its impact on our territory. I imagine you are already negotiating - I hope so, otherwise the invitation goes in this direction - also forms of compensation for the countries and for the sectors most affected. I would like to take this opportunity to thank, through you, diplomats, those who work within the OSCE, the people who are in the most sensitive embassies and, in particular, our diplomatic corps in Kiev. Thank you so much. I express gratitude, closeness and respect for their work. [[Applause]] Similarly, through Minister Guerini, we want to express from the Democratic Party Group our closeness and gratitude for the work that our NATO contingents are doing in the most exposed areas. [[Applause]] We'll be ready to do our part. We are aware of the military and diplomatic stakes. We need the greatest effort in dialogue and diplomacy, until the last moment; for this reason we will also need to put in place actions of deterrent, because our goal is peace. I would like to conclude by saying that this - but it applies to everyone, even to my party - is not the time for partisan meetings to earn some extra votes. But it is time for unity, to defend liberal democracies and those rights and freedoms carved into our Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u68	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we in the Group of the Mixed-ITALY CENTRE (IDEA-Cambiamo!, EUROPEISTS, OUR CENTRES (Noi Campani) very much appreciated the approach of your report and the work of the Government in these sad circumstances. We would like to emphasise, in the context of the debate, two profiles that are treated little or no longer. What is being treated badly is the role of Europe, and I will get there. What's being treated little is about the numbers at stake. I would like to point out to all of us that the Russian economy in 2021 recorded a GDP of 1,480 billion dollars, compared with 2,3 trillion, thus 2,300 billion in 2013, so in very strong decline. The figure compares with the 1,900 billion dollars of the Italian economy: the economy of the Russian Federation is therefore about 30 percent smaller than that of Italy and is a third of that of Germany. The per capita GDP in Russia, falling sharply in recent years, is about $10,000 per citizen, compared with $35,000 per Italian citizen and $50,000 per German citizen. In Russia the official main interest rate is 9.5%; inflation is officially 9%; the ruble is worth less than half of ten years ago. We are talking about an economy in crisis, with respect to which, in the history of humanity, it is quite frequent that the case of the search for external diversions by the autocrats responsible for the socio-economic situation, which we do not find difficult to find in this area too. Putin, together with the circle of oligarchs who have become rich around him, needs to anticipate an external enemy, who identified in NATO, claiming, with a prolix and completely false speech from a historical point of view, even genocide activities by Ukrainians in the regions of which he recognized independence. It needs to create this diversion, to cover the economic and therefore social situation: life expectancy in Russia and the management of the Covid, in fact, are failures in all respects; diversion that can also be identified in the employment, in fact, of Belarus. We all know, from the history of the previous century, that Russian troops tend to arrive and then stay in those territories. But there are also a little more diversions in the east, and we certainly would not want that; and these diversions are being implemented by autocratic systems that do not recognise the value of parliamentary democracy and can have much more dangerous objectives. This is a first profile, which we must have very well in mind when analyzing the situation. A second aspect is the representation of Europe's role. Europe is there. It's like an economic giant. Europe has financed more than 300 billion direct investment in Russia, compared with less than 100 billion by the Russians in Europe, among other things very characterized. Europe cares a lot more about Russia than it does about you. Europe is an economic giant, but it is also a political giant, as has been seen in the capacity to put in place a negotiating activity at the head of President Macron, who is President-in-Office of the European Union and for this reason represented Europe. It was seen in the predisposition of the German leadership to close a project, which even Chancellor Merkel had not had the courage and power to do, the North Stream 2. It was seen yesterday in the alignment of many countries, and this is really one of the few positive aspects of the crisis. I am thinking, for example, of the Poles, who have quickly considered the opportunity to return to the European ranks and recognise the rule of law. Europe is there and we are pleased that it has a non-warlike attitude towards the management of international crises. We have chosen to play a military role within NATO. We are proud of this and we are pleased with Italy's role in this area. Europe is also a political giant, which continues to grow. If there is a good consequence of the debate now taking place, even here in the Senate, it is that, from so many different points of view, more Europe is being asked. Let us remember this at a time when there will have to be some significant measure at the level of common storage of energy reserves. Let us remember this when we have to decide to act on the strategy compass, that is to say on a core of common army. Let us remember this in so many situations where we tend to take Europe for granted and to be hypercritical, when we are extremely beneficiaries and, fortunately, extremely active in this area. Situations of crisis like this show us how extemporaneous it would be to claim a role as a single country of 60 million inhabitants compared to a global strategic crisis situation. Europe is there and we, as Europeans, are proud of it. The Russian Federation has a problem, which is mainly economic and financial, where military diversions should be seen more clearly. In the meantime, we are aware and optimistic that the Government will pursue every possible space to avoid further extensions of the conflict and that sanctions will continue to be sustainable, proportionate and gradual, so as not to weigh so much on our economy and the socio-economic situation of the Russian people, who are a friendly people and will continue to be friends with the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u70	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u71	Mr Minister, in anticipation of this, allow me to say that the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, shares the letter of your statement this morning; a position shared with our Holding Company in the Foreign Commission, Senator Aimi. Minister, I do not want to retrace all the events that have taken place at this time at the chronological level, but I would like to try to make an overall argument, with questions at the heart of it. The first question that I have to ask myself, and which the Italians, above all, are asking themselves outside this Parliament and this House, also on the basis of the many commentators, is the following: are we before a novel Hitler? Tsar Putin, that is, historically retraces Hitler's inauspicious deeds? This is the first question that we must ask ourselves - for example - starting from Crimea, the annexation (the Anschluss), and then again the mask of the independence and self-determination of the peoples and, therefore, the true and concrete annexation of the Donbass. If all this were true - and it is well-founded - the gradual sanctions, with all due respect, Minister, are inadequate and insufficient. If we have this imminent scenario of the living space of Hitler's memory before us, frankly these sanctions are not enough. If, on the contrary, it is the obsession - as President Prodi described it this morning on the Foglio, if I am not mistaken - of a man - and on the merits of man's particularity - of having NATO in his backyard, then, yes, those sanctions are effective and punctual. It is a distinction that the international community must make, apart from the domestic policies of individual States. We are not playing here: there is the possibility of a conflict on the doorstep, indeed in the heart of Europe. The United Nations intervenes when there are war conflicts around the world; when we talk about Europe - I have seen that the Security Council has recently been convened - it is frankly humiliating to see how that body does not function with the famous reciprocal veto rights. If, then, we are in this circumstance, we must be clear and clear: if we are faced with this obsession, is it worth it? The game of massacre in Europe between the Putin pros and the Putin cons is just as depressing. There is no discussion here, there is not a single comma that shares our thoughts with that of Tsar Putin on the conception of democracy, of individual freedoms and - let me say - of human rights; there is no commonality of views. We must, however, consider whether sanctions are valid or not: in our view, they are valid and have a cost. We have to explain it out of here, Minister, because the survey I read this morning that shows that two out of three Italians do not understand why they have to pay, because it is necessary to sacrifice themselves for Ukraine, shows that the message has not passed. The Ukrainian people are not defending themselves exclusively here: they are defending the founding values of our civilization and our democracy; they are defending the peace that has characterized Europe for over seventy years. That is why, unfortunately, we must make sacrifices. Then there is a distinction between sacrifice and sacrifice. The British Government has put in place some sanctions for five banks and two oligarchs. We must tell ourselves, dear friends: Italy and Germany pay a high price, consistent with the traditional values of our country's culture, with 90% of gas imports (40% for Italy). Those sanctions seriously affect our trade balance, as we have already paid this price since 2014. And so it is worth it, because it must be explained that we are not defending the interests of a people exclusively, but we are defending the fundamental reasons for our unity. Minister, I do not go into the substance of the various international organizations. The European Union has shown that it is not adequate at the time of the energy crisis because we have not even managed to create a unity of intent to be opposed in a negotiation to weigh more in the negotiation; we have not even managed to do so. Now I hope that this unity of intent will manifest itself seriously and consistently on sanctions, otherwise the risk is to lose confidence in the institutions of the European Union. Minister, I am going on another subject precisely because we must not split up; it would be wrong, it would be a weakness. If the central theme was Putin's obsession with having NATO in his backyard, then we could also recall a Latin saying: if you want peace, prepare war. Well, I sincerely hope that this is the subject; if so, then I give my advice, as with a friend. You see, Minister, in friendship relations - and thank God we have serious allies - it is essential to be clear and authentic. And, if we are critical of our best allies with whom we have brotherhood relations, namely the United States of America, we are not doing so because someone thinks we want to denounce treaties or positionings, but we simply put critical issues. Do we want to replicate a second Turkey in the heart of Europe? It's a doubt we have to ask ourselves. It would be easy for everyone to simplify: on the one hand, the ugly and bad and, on the other, the good and beautiful. Simplifying, however, is not in our culture: unfortunately, our culture is a complex one. So, in anticipation and with a vision - I would say - of perspective, what do we want to do with the Russians and Russia? Do we want to marginalize her and isolate her? I would not like to recall the trap of Thucydides, re-enacted by the American politologist Alison referring to the competition that would lead to a confrontation between the USA and China. Of course, however, if Europe does not have a far-sighted vision based on its culture, we will hardly be able to have a dialogue with the Russians and risk catapulting them into the hands, perhaps, of the Chinese sphere of influence, which I do not think is compatible with that of the United States of America. In conclusion, Minister, we are at your side and at the side of this Government. We hope that the hope of dialogue will remain open - in line with our allies - because we are convinced that Europe can make a difference by putting its values into place, net of what is happening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u72	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u73	Minister, I can think of, at first glance, the phrase of the Chinese philosopher - as well as leader - Sun Tzu, that is: "Know your enemy" (or at least your opponent). The first consideration I make is of a geographical nature. In the newspapers and even here we are talking about a Ukrainian front, but Russia has a somewhat different vision. For Russia, the entire geographical arc that goes from the peninsula of Kola to the North Sea, passes through Eastern Europe and arrives - passing through the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov - to the Middle East, in the eastern Mediterranean, is a single front from the security point of view. I make this geographical consideration because it is news of Monday that the cruiser Ustinov - as you will know - sailed between Calabria and Puglia in the south direction, parading in front of the military port of Taranto (our base), and then make route to Greece and probably to the eastern Mediterranean. All these movements of submarines in front of the Ukrainian coast do not have a different military-operational meaning than that of Russian submarines and military ships in the North Sea or the Mediterranean, because it is all one operating theatre, if we can say so. The other geographical consideration I would like to make is that we are rightly talking about Ukraine in terms of violated sovereignty, economic and social problems - there are refugees, dead and wounded - but for Russia the problem is again a security issue. All the invasions that the Russian people have historically suffered come from the West. It is clear that Napoleon and Adolf Hitler are certainly not Europe today and they do not represent us in any way. But psychologically, the support of the Russian population to President Putin - someone called him the tsar - comes from this. Encircling syndrome is not something theoretical or a whim of the newspapers, but it is something felt within the Russian population. And it is a very important factor if we want to democratize Russia. And when we compare ourselves with it, we have to take into account things of the vision of our competitor. We do this in a relationship of friendship and we do it even when we fight: we must know our enemy. Then the fact that the precept comes from Asia "know your enemy," and in Europe Socrates said "know yourself," underlines again the diversity of vision of life and man between two cultures. So in this vision, we are also talking about the manifestation of intentions. The recognition of the sovereignty and independence of these two Republics is a violation of Ukraine's legitimate sovereignty. Ukraine is not part of NATO, but on 12 June 2020 Ukraine became an opportunity partner of NATO. It is not a partner role in the sense of an ally, but it is intended to ensure interoperability between the military systems of the partner country and the rest of the Alliance. Clearly, if I put myself from the Russian point of view as I have just said, I cannot see in this something aimed at peace and cooperation. I am pleased - it is a sacred principle - that you have spoken about the principle of the open door: NATO is open to all states that want to be part of it. It is right that it should be open, and it is right that Ukraine, with a democratic government, should be asked to be a part of it. The NATO-Russia Council - I remember the 2003 Maritime Practice Summit - had also begun a path that seemed extremely promising, but not all the countries of the world agree, even in the West, with this vision, which I share. Here an Englishman who surely knows you helps us: he is Halford Mackinder, the great father of geopolitics, who spoke of Heartland, the heart of the Earth, the Euro-Asian continent. Who controls the Eurasian continent, which goes from Vladivostok to the shores of the Atlantic, controls the world. It is clear that the priority, for those who are not part of this continent and do not control it, becomes opposed to the fact that this immense mass unites and coagulates. Hence the need for an enemy Russia and an West separated from Russia. What I'm saying is that democratization and friendship must be something that comes from both sides and not from one. What Russia is doing in Ukraine is absolutely illegal, from the point of view of international law: sanctions are well come, but they must have an effect on Russia and not on our citizens. I've heard of some kind of entrepreneurship sacrifice before. Well, see that a sacrifice for an entrepreneur, Italian as from another country, is not the sacrifice of a stranger: the entrepreneur increases the prices of goods, fires, fails. These are the reactions to such a crisis. After that, it is our citizens who pay. Consequently, I hope that the Italian State, when the sanctions are declined, will help those sectors of the Italian economy affected by the effects of these sanctions. I would point out a second element, historically speaking. In 2014 sanctions were issued in particular in the agri-food sector - I am Veneto - that have hit the economic fabric of the North-East of the country hard. Russia at that time imported about 32 percent of foodstuff, food materials, from abroad. Do you know what the reaction to sanctions was? In 2021 they imported 12 percent: we helped them to be autonomous. The potatoes bought first in Central Europe are bought by Kazakhstan. I do not know whether those sanctions have had the desired effect; they have been disastrous to our economy. In order to inspire good will to Russia and Putin, I have more than a few doubts. There is one thing I would like to stress: the question of energy and the coordination of the European Union, Minister. France and Germany have two completely different energy mixes: Germany is abandoning nuclear power and coal, relying on gas for ecological transition, as required by the taxonomy recently approved by the European Union; France is continuing on nuclear power. We can well understand that the energy strategy and the strategy towards Russia of these two countries cannot be compatible and cannot be compatible with ours either. As a result, talking about a common European Union strategy makes me a little smiling: how can there be a common European Union strategy even in terms of energy? I agree with you, Minister: we must equip ourselves to deal with crises not only from a geopolitical point of view, but also on the demand and supply side. But when we have a gas storage capacity across Europe of less than a fifth of the annual consumption, where can we go? This problem cannot be solved at all, because renewable alternative energies will arrive in a few years' time, when we have solved the problems of energy accumulation and transmission, with technology. But energy is like the air we breathe: we don't need it in five, ten or fifteen years, but we need it right away. So it is not right - in my opinion - to rely on tomorrow's renewable energies to solve a problem that can strangle our economy today; and that is simply because it is obvious. Just see what is happening in Italy with the expensive bills, which is linked to a price trend due to the geopolitical crisis, and not only. It would be desirable, at European level, to re-examine the pace of the ecological transition: 2035 is approaching and not as a date of hope, but as a threat. I apologize if I had to stop for breathing problems. Thank you, Minister, and I hope you will defend Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u74	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u75	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the usual speed with which he has made himself available to provide information and for his attempts at dialogue with Kiev and Moscow. The decision by Russia to recognise the two secessionist regions of Donbass constitutes a clear violation of international law and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. It is therefore natural and necessary that the international community should not remain inert. And it is correct that Europe has reacted with targeted sanctions, to protect international legality and peace in the old continent, put at risk by this initiative; an initiative that has unilaterally removed the advances made with the Minsk agreements, although their forecasts have never been fully implemented. Europe, in view of its dramatic history, cannot tolerate that the borders of a sovereign state be changed by threats, and cannot tolerate de facto annexations, justified by an anachronistic nationalism. [[Applause]] The sovereignty of the states and the freedom of choice of Ukraine must be taken into account in relation to a possible accession to a military alliance, such as the Atlantic Pact, or to a political and trade alliance, such as the European Union. Ukrainian citizens cannot and must not live under armed threat, but must be free to look where they wish. Ukraine is already in serious economic difficulties and the tension, which is pushing away investors, is further exacerbating the condition of the national economy. However, in order to understand the current situation and decline it objectively, I believe it is indispensable to know the historical path that has led us to the present. How did we get to this situation? In 1991, during talks between the United States and the Soviet Union on the reunification of Germany, it was promised to President Gorbachev that NATO would not extend eastward by a single inch, in the words of Secretary of State James Baker. If a political map of Eastern Europe is consulted today, it can be seen that this promise, made in 1991 and repeated two years later in Boris Yeltsin, has been disregarded. In recent decades, the expansion of NATO, which objectively already crosses the Russian borders to date, has generated an encircling syndrome in Russian public opinion and in Moscow's institutions. The United States, through NATO, has incorporated into the Alliance, one after the other, almost all the countries of the former Warsaw Pact, until it opens the doors to two key states from a geopolitical point of view for Russia: Georgia and Ukraine. And so President Putin's strategy goes beyond Donbass and Ukraine and aims to review the post-Cold War geopolitical balances in Europe, resulting from the humiliating defeat of the Soviet Union: that American pax designed by the winning power in a historical moment that seemed to sanction the definitive triumph of American unipolarism and with it even the end of history, as Francis Fukuyama wrote. This thesis was denied by the facts, as recognized by the same author. Today, thirty years later, we live in a multipolar world, where Russia has returned to being a geopolitical actor that cannot be relegated to the regional plan. For years Putin has set a red line, asking the United States not to let Ukraine and Georgia into NATO, to prevent nuclear missiles from being dislocated a few kilometers from Moscow. This is an understandable request such as that which, inverse parts, could make the United States, asking not to let Mexico or Canada into a powerful anti-American military alliance. The change leading Ukraine in 2014 and then Trump's decision to leave the Treaty on Medium-range Nuclear Forces in 2018 were a further cause for concern for Moscow. In my view, in the context of an attempt to preserve a negotiation that I think is still possible, it would be appropriate not to ignore these historical facts. Finding a diplomatic solution must remain the main objective of all the actors involved. Even if it is labile today, if the light of diplomacy is extinguished, the risk could be a degeneration in a probable, perhaps partial, Russian invasion of Ukraine. This scenario would be intolerable for all those who believe in the freedom and inviolability of the sovereignty of States. Russia, the United States and the European Union should convene a conference on security and cooperation in Europe with a view to writing a new Treaty of Helsinki, such as the one which in 1975 guaranteed the peaceful coexistence of the two blocs; a new agreement on the deployment of strategic weapons and the limits of NATO's expansion, which could provide as a solution a guarantee of neutrality for Ukraine, on the Finnish model. This is in order to prevent further Russian advances on a sovereign territory such as that of Ukraine. I fear that between those who blow on fire on one side and on the other, it is Europe that risks burning itself. This crisis can affect not only the stability and peace of our continent, but it can also have very serious economic repercussions. In the event of further degeneration, we would have an exponential surge in energy and fuel prices, which would be unsustainable for our citizens and for production activities; not to mention the very serious repercussions that trade and energy sanctions would have on our economic system and on our companies. It is also known to the less international political experts that our country is not self-sufficient in terms of energy and that almost half of the necessary gas is imported from Russia. This should push us even more to speed up energy transformation and focus on renewable energies and we, like Movimento 5 Stars, with initiatives such as energy communities and superbonus, are indicating the path to follow. [[Applause]] With an economy already very tested by the pandemic, it would be really devastating to face yet another emergency. For all these reasons - as Pope Francis said - we must always make every necessary effort for peace; we must keep open the door of dialogue in order to initiate a de-escalation and enter into negotiations that guarantee the security needs of all the actors involved, in compliance with international law. I believe that at this moment there are two players who must be central: the European Union and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE); the first being united and cooperating in a spirit of community, finally acting as mediator and demonstrating that long-standing international political unity; the OSCE continuing to work to restore dialogue between the parties and avoid scenarios that would be detrimental to everyone, possibly even by increasing the number of delegates who play a key role in the monitoring mission. I conclude by recalling that the world population has been at war for two years with an invisible enemy, which has caused the deaths of millions of people, putting a strain on the health and economic systems. I believe that citizens are entitled to a period of peace, tranquillity and serenity. Therefore, I hope that politics, the one that knows how to fly high, can prevail and not make the usual mistakes that history should have taught us not to replicate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u76	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u77	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the borders of Europe and NATO cannot be defined with weapons or even with threats. That is why immediate sanctions and a compact response from all Western allies - from the Atlantic Alliance to the European Union - are the most just and effective reaction to the Kremlin's decision; that Kremlin which, recognizing the separatist republics of the Donbass, has trampled on international law. Putin carried out a very serious act, a blatant violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the Minsk Protocol, and with his words last Monday evening he attacked not only Ukraine, but also - openly - the entire balance of international law, blatantly scarring the rule of law. Injuring the territorial sovereignty of a neighbouring country is not acceptable, just as it cannot be tolerated that one country claims to impose on another how to direct its foreign policy. It is good, therefore, that all the European institutions have immediately expressed themselves in a position of unity, firmness and determination, in full solidarity with Ukraine, and that immediate and targeted sanctions have been envisaged on which a preliminary definition work has already begun between the different European partners. At this stage, we cannot allow ourselves to be distinguished, despite the fact that providing for sanctions to strike Russia also means, in effect, hitting our Italian and European companies. Italy is the second European country for exports to Russia after Germany. Therefore, it is easy to imagine what negative consequences will result from the adoption of a number of sanctions. It is no coincidence that Italy and Germany themselves have asked for counterweights in the Community to compensate for the damage caused by the introduction of sanctions in certain countries. It is good that we have done so, but we cannot give up sanctions only out of national selfishness. Here there are bigger issues than the interests of individual countries. If we left Putin free to act undisturbed, over the medium to long period the relapses would be very serious, as history teaches us. The same script already put in place by Putin on two other occasions is being re-proposed: in 2014 with the occupation of Crimea and, before that, in 2008 with the aggression of Georgia, which resolved with the annexation to the Russian Federation of two regions with separatist tendencies. What has already happened in the past shows that Putin, if he is not forced to confront the banks, takes foreign policy initiatives more and more risky. That is why, if there is no firm and determined response from the international community, we should expect further consequences in the future. Putin is betting on this, that is, on the inactivism of the West, caused by possible internal splits. At the latest last Monday, from the statements made after the Russian Security Council, we know for sure how Putin is pursuing the objective of redesigning the balance of strength between Russia, the European Union, the United States and NATO for its benefit. In his speech announcing the recognition of the independence of the Donbass, Putin claimed to rewrite history: from the fall of the Soviet Union to today, even claiming that Ukraine never existed as an independent state. In an attempt to justify the war, he gave the world his vision of an imperial Russia that intends to restore those powers of influence towards satellite countries that were usual at the time before the fall of the Berlin Wall. Putin not only demands the status of permanent neutrality of Ukraine, but would also like NATO to withdraw its troops from Eastern European countries, limiting its operational presence at the borders of 1997. With a growing strategy of tension, in recent weeks, Russia has insisted on offering evidence of strength of its power in an attempt to restore that modus operandi that was typical of the Soviet Union during the years of the Cold War, when the USSR could afford to do the beautiful and the bad weather on the countries that fall into its geopolitical orbit; an attitude aimed at wearing down the West, breaking NATO and weakening its action. Today, however, we are no longer in the cold war. Today it is normal that each country can define for itself whether or not it wants to enter an international organization, without having to fear that another state will meddle and allow itself to review the issue. That is why it is important for the West to have kept the same line in a compact manner in recent weeks, aimed at giving a clear message: the territorial integrity of individual countries cannot be called into question. The sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, as well as of any other country, must be firmly safeguarded. Russia's claims over the last few weeks and hours are not admissible, all the more so since it tries to extort them by force, through a progressive strategy of tension. These are unprecedented provocations which must be tackled with the greatest determination and firmness on the part of all Western democracies. If it is good that over the last few weeks the West has spoken with one voice, working for peace and stability, it is now necessary to continue to do so through the adoption of resolute sanctions. A few minutes ago, Mr President, I received the message from one of our compatriots who lives in Ukraine, who writes to me that the situation is going down; the Ukrainians are not going to respond militarily to the Russian presence in the Donbass, but they are intensifying the actions of the independenceists to provoke a reaction from the Ukrainian army, which then serves as a pretext for Russia's military attack. People expect a campaign of attacks made on purpose within the country to provoke a reaction and that targets will be schools, supermarkets and hospitals to make as many victims as possible. Here is also this testimony in the last few minutes tells us that we must put in place all possible instruments to prevent the outbreak of war. Putin must be shown the firmness of the West. The images of the Russian armor column entering the Donbass are a slap on the principle of national sovereignty. Among other things, these are mostly white media, such as those adopted by the UN in peacekeeping operations, as evidence of the Putinian rhetoric of an alleged peace intervention, which is all but peace intervention. That is why Europe and NATO cannot tolerate provocations such as these, even at the cost of risking economic shocks; a danger that we must accept that we must run, as we have done - for example - and we must appreciate, Germany, by suspending the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and thus demonstrating that democratic values for us Europeans cannot come after economic logic and that Europe is not blackmailable. [[Applause]] That is why the response given in recent weeks has been positive with the strict policy of deterence - on the one hand - and with the maintenance of dialogue with Russia, on the other; a strategy to which Italy too has very appropriately contributed, in the wake of the deepest Atlantic tradition, also aware of the risk that Russia, alongside the direct use of military force, will not hesitate to resort even to a hybrid war. It is a further danger that joins Putin's very strong risk and ambition to assert Russian national interests on a global scale, in a sort of imperialist nationalism, made even more problematic by the contemporary rapprochement of Russia with China. In addition to the disastrous effects that the ongoing conflict in Ukraine is likely to have in terms of the cost of human lives and material destruction, the huge problem remains of how to deal with the issue of long-term international balances. That is, the question arises of how to rethink a new architecture for global security, where there is also room for Russia where Putin moves away from his imperialist ambitions and makes himself available to sit back at the dialogue table. In a scenario of this kind, Italy must be the protagonist, together with Europe. I too share the views of my previous colleagues on the need for Europe now more than ever to have a common European defence which will enable us to work for peace and also to combat the winds of war which unfortunately are so close to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u79	Minister, thank you for being here. We, as a force of patriotic opposition, will not make presumptuous attacks today, but we will try to make our contribution. Thank you very much if you will listen carefully to me, despite the desolation of an empty Chamber, when we talk about issues such as these, as a witness to a West which is inadequate to meet certain challenges. First of all I want to represent my personal closeness and that of Brothers of Italy to the many Ukrainians and Russians who live in Italy and who at this moment live with great apprehension what is happening, regardless of the responsibilities of its Governments. [[Applause]] A thank you goes to our diplomats and our officials in Kiev and a thank you to you, Minister, for leaving the embassy open: it is an important sign of presence, which repeats itself after what has already been given in Afghanistan and which gives lustre to our nation. With all due respect, however, I must say that we would have preferred a more experienced foreign minister to face a crisis like this. You said that you had been confronted with Minister Lavrov, a diplomat since before you were born, a person of enormous depth. You are an intelligent and prepared person and you will agree with me that, in a context like that, maybe a Third Giulio Di Sant'Agata or Ambassador Vattani or others with the same standing as Lavrov would have been more appropriate. Unfortunately, the government of the best, beyond the name it has given itself, has chosen its boxes according to other logics and then we pay it in contexts like this. Italy arrives unprepared and, even worse, the European Union arrives unprepared, once again bureaucratic giant, geopolitical nano and internationally. What happens in Ukraine is also a child of European weakness. In this context, clarity is important and, then, I want to say straightaway that the Brothers of Italy supports an Italy fully part of the Western bloc, fully part of the Atlantic Alliance, without ambiguity. Ours is not a tactical choice or a choice of convenience: it is the awareness of being part of a Western world with common roots, common philosophical visions, son of the classical and Christian roots of Europe, which belong to Europe and to all countries of European culture. This is our belonging to the West. We have never looked at China, the Islamic monarchies of the Gulf, Russia: our choice of field is clear and clear. In the same way, we have always supported respect for international law, aware that it is the only instrument to prevent the outbreak of wars and conflicts and also for a reason of opportunity: international law defends the least powerful States and, unfortunately, for a long time, Italy and Europe are not among the superpowers of this planet. Therefore, all the more so, Italy and Europe must forcefully and always uphold international law. We were, however, easy prophets when, on the occasion of the war in Serbia for Kosovo, we said that we were creating a dangerous precedent. Solving a crisis, although very serious and bloody, by redesigning the borders of one European State, would have been a precedent used by others in Europe. And that is exactly what Russia is doing, quoting the Kosovo case when it comes to redesigning borders to resolve an armed conflict situation. With the same clarity, however, we are wondering whether NATO and the West have made the most appropriate progress so far. If we have arrived from the 2002 Maritime Practice Agreement, with a proximity between NATO and Russia, to a war situation at our doorstep, something has been wrong. It's a fact. The goal, according to Brothers of Italy - but I believe it is a goal shared by all Europeans - is to achieve a definitive peace between Europe and Russia for a number of reasons. In order to achieve this ambitious objective, we must be able to reconcile two very different needs: on the one hand, the needs of the Eastern European countries, rightly concerned by Russian imperialism, which they have known over and over again in history and, last but not least, freed themselves from the Soviet yoke only in 1990. From a historical point of view, it means yesterday. It is clear, therefore, that these countries are worried and frightened. We should remember the debt we owe to the countries of the East, which we have given to the communist dictatorship in exchange for our freedom, when, with too much simplicity, we attack Poland, Hungary and the Visegrad bloc. If they are lagging behind in democracy, perhaps it is because we have handed them over to the Soviet bloc for half a century. [[Applause]] It is an even more important speech for Ukraine. Putin has made a long historical reconstruction, partly true, of the proximity between the two peoples. He, however, failed to remember a historical event. Mr. Minister, if you listen to me, maybe it's more useful to all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u80	Senator Fazzolari, sincerely your call is inappropriate, because the Minister was absolutely paying attention to you. The Presidency is very vigilant, from this point of view, on the holding of the Chamber. If yours was a rhetorical emphasis, we take it as such. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u81	FAZZOLARI (FdI). And we are very happy with the Presidency's firm vigilance. Putin has made a long historical reconstruction, partly true, of the relations between Russia and Ukraine, of the relations between two very similar peoples. He, however, failed to mention the painful parenthesis of the relationship between these two peoples, first of all that of the Ukrainian genocide, the holodomor, the genocide by hunger that Soviet communists imposed on Ukraine in the 1930s to bend it to the new Bolshevik model. This too must be remembered when we talk about Russia and Ukraine. On the other hand, however, there is a superpower calling for guarantees on its own safety. In this respect, unfortunately, we have given rise to Russian concerns. We won the Cold War thanks to Reagan's space shield, which was partly a bluff, but which worked. We were able to strike the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union was unable to strike the West. This led to an arms race by the Soviet Union, which the Soviet economy did not hold, and therefore suffered a collapse precisely because of the space shield announced by Reagan. Today we want to do more. We want to be able to have a NATO structure that makes Russia offensive, that is, that we can hit its vital cities before Russia has the time to react. Now, we are not referees in this game: we are biased. We won two to zero the Cold War. If we can win six to zero, we're happy; eight to zero, ten to zero, we agree; as long as we don't do two to two and lose two to three, and that's our concern. Are we sure we can make an offensive power that has 6,500 atomic warheads and 145 million inhabitants, which is the largest state in the world from a geographical point of view? If we're sure, fine. We are not so sure for a number of reasons: firstly, it is the power of Russia, as we have already said; secondly, Russia has already given signs that it was not prepared for certain concessions. He did so in Georgia with a situation very similar to that of Ukraine: Georgia, in the process of joining NATO, was militarily occupied by Russia and the West did not react. The third most serious reason was the sign of weakness of the West and, in particular, of the Biden administration. Let's talk about numbers, Minister, which, if we reason together, may be useful, perhaps, even in some international conversation. Biden has announced to its public opinion and to the whole world that 3,000 American deaths in 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan were a cost in terms of lives too high to bear, so much so that it led to a disorderly and shameful withdrawal from Afghanistan. I repeat: 3,000 dead in 20 years. The Ukrainians, in a war defined at low intensity, in a few years had 14,000 deaths in the Donbass: these are the relationships. All experts estimate that any earthly conflict, even with conventional weapons, would lead to tens of thousands of deaths in a matter of days. So, how does the West at the same time say that it is not willing to bear a cost of 3,000 deaths in twenty years and make it believe that it would be willing to have 50,000 deaths in a few days? That's how we exposed ourselves to the Russian reaction, with an incompetent American administration. We have to have the strength to say it. With Trump it wouldn't have happened, and I don't say it, but many people in the United States say it today. Trump wouldn't lend his side to this weakness. Let's talk about the Americans who are the ones who always do much of the work for the West. And if we want to talk about the West, we're even worse off. A Europe impoverished by the Covid, which imposes the obligation of vaccination and to walk around with masks and with the green pass, with what credibility does it talk about war? Do you go to the front with the FFP2 and respect the social gap? [[Applause]] Let's be credible. On the front line and with the green pass: of course we then lend our support to those who think they can bully the West. In this context, Europe is always inadequate. Minister, I ask you to officially protest on behalf of Italy with Borrell, responsible for European foreign policy, who is allowed to make idiots tweets saying that, with sanctions, no shopping in Milan for the Russians. People are dying there, people are fighting there and we have a clown who says no shopping in Milan? Is this the reaction of the West? I ask you to make Italy's voice heard. When Europe speaks of a dramatic situation, it does so seriously. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, of course, the names must be contained. FAZZOLARI (FdI). You're the president.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u82	That's not the point. He will then recover his time. I do not fail to point out several times that, because of the polemic vis, there is a vocabulary of which the senators have a very wide availability and to which they can draw with their wisdom.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u83	The term clown is not a term... president. Very well, but I invite you to conclude. He takes responsibility for what he says. Of course I take responsibility for what I say. Who else takes responsibility? You? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u84	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u85	FAZZOLARI (FdI). If you bothered to find out about the history of our Group, you would know that we are not afraid of the responsibility of saying "pagliaccio" to someone. Speaking of inadequate management of certain contexts, Minister Di Maio, in 2019 I submitted a parliamentary question addressed to you, because it included Ukraine among the safe states of origin of illegal immigrants. This means that the Ukrainian person found without a residence permit could be taken and sent back home because the country was safe while there was a war. I asked her how it was possible for the Ukrainian carer without a residence permit to be sent back to Ukraine, where there was war, and she did not include Pakistan, Egypt, Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Bangladesh, where there are no wars. Well, let us try to live our eastern borders even more seriously: if there is war in Ukraine, Ukraine is not a safe country; or in Ukraine there is no war and then it is a safe country, but it cannot say the two things at the same time. I therefore ask you, on the other hand, to remove Ukraine from the list of safe countries, in order to avoid repatriating Ukrainian caregivers and perhaps including Pakistan, so that we can return those who illegally land on our coasts without having any title. [[Applause]] In conclusion, it is right to make every effort to work for peace. Europe has few weapons at its disposal, including sanctions, if the sanctions hit Russia more than they hit us; otherwise they become mockery for everyone, first of all for the Ukrainians and for those who support that situation. Moreover, support for Eastern European countries once again threatened by Russian imperialism (just with the alleged attacks on the Visegrad blockade); condemnation of the violation of international law by Russia for the recognition of the separatist Republics of the Donbass; a plan of energy autonomy of the European Union, because we can talk about what we want about bad Russia, but then from Russia we have to buy gas, otherwise we turn off the light in our homes. And, above all, we must respect the commitment of the parameter of 2% of NATO's military spending: we continue to speak of the Atlantic Alliance and of NATO membership, but Brothers of Italy is the only party that has always paid the electoral cost and of unpopularity to say that it is not spared on military spending, that freedom has a cost and that cost is the ability of a people to defend themselves. There is the 2% of GDP parameter for each NATO Member State, which Italy continues to systematically fail to respect. And, precisely because of a situation of tension, we ask at least that, already in the next financial law, we expect to respect the parameter of 2% of GDP. As true Europeans, we care about this Europe. We have at heart the peace and the borders of Europe, once again endangered by the inadequacy of this European Union. Once again, the Confederal model supported by the European Conservatives chaired by Giorgia Meloni, namely a model with a Europe that collaborates on foreign policy, defence, border defence, and faces the great challenges of our time, is the path we must pursue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u86	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u87	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Di Maio very much for the accuracy of his analysis, which I share; a difficult analysis of an objectively very complex issue. But before I go into the substance of the serious events in Ukraine, I want to make five preliminary points that I think are necessary: the first is that relations between States can only be regulated by international law and by the legal and political commitments made by the nations. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u88	Colleagues, please be silent and observe a certain reciprocity. Senator Zanda is taking action.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u89	ZANDA (PD). The second point is that the territorial integrity of States is sacred. The third point: as long as there is time, international disputes must be resolved with diplomacy and with all the instruments of peace. The fourth point: Italy is a member of NATO and founder of the European Union and, in a serious matter such as that of Ukraine, it must agree with its allies all the initiatives to be taken. Fifth, sanctions against Russia must be proportionate to the seriousness of its behaviour, and that is how the European Union and the United States have started to do so. But I must say that I find it very difficult to assess the dramatic events of Ukraine and Donbass outside the wider context of the strong global instability of the time we are experiencing. I can make a mistake. In fact, I very much hope that things will not be as I fear. But I see the risk that an inclined plan, in which more and more rapidly a large part of the planet is slipping, will lead us to a condition of war whose outcome today no one, not even Europe, is capable of predicting. At this moment, in retrospect, it is very easy - it has also been done in this House, today, by several senators who have spoken - to denounce mistakes made by us and our allies on the issue of Ukraine. But it's a wrong calculation, because it's the simple facts that clarify who the attacker is and who the attacker is. [[Applause]] , who wants peace and who wants war. Anyone who has listened to President Putin's television statements must have understood that the unilateral decision taken against international law to recognise and, in fact, annex Donetsk and Lugansk had already been taken for some time. Whoever has observed the coldness of his gaze and carefully weighed the meaning of his words, cannot fail to understand that that army of 150,000 Russian soldiers, those planes, hypersonic missiles, ships and atomic submarines located around Ukraine are there not to do routine summer exercises, but to threaten the invasion of Ukraine and, if necessary, to realize it. There was a lot of duplicity in these behaviors. As he accused NATO of wanting to expand to the East, getting closer and closer to its borders, it was actually Putin's Russia that was planning and implementing the shift to the West of its borders, and now it has. Rarely have we witnessed disinformation operations so significantly refined and so widely ramified. But no disinformation, however clever, can alter the reality of the facts: targeted attacks, cyber incursions, incitement to separatism, intelligence maneuvers, mercenary troops confirm a method that today violates the international law and the borders of Ukraine; but, more generally, it must unfortunately question us about the security of the planet. This is the inclined plan on which we are slipping: Afghanistan, Syria, Libya, the Russian and Turkish military fleets in the Mediterranean, the Russian and Chinese presence in sub-Saharan Africa, North Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan, the tensions in the Indo-Pacific Ocean and finally Crimea, Georgia, Transnistria and now Ukraine, in which a real act of war has been put in place, with the force of arms, as European Commissioner Reynders has called it. What links politically so different and geographically so distant facts with each other? The common point is the speed with which territorial claims, economic contrasts, commercial competitions and geostrategic aspirations turn into military confrontations, until they become real wars. Italy and Europe want peace and peaceful coexistence, but they know that the way to preserve them is hard and full of pitfalls. And they also know that only the truth can help peace, just as they know that international aggressions must be called by their name. In the second half of the 20th century, the confrontation between the East and the West saw as protagonists two great ideologies, which controlled each other in terror that broke that nuclear balance that guaranteed peace. The 21st century shows a very different reality: history is not over, but the ideologies we knew have disappeared; the world has broken down; in various parts of the planet there have even been forms of coexistence between socialism and capitalism that, in the last century, were the great enemies. And now Putin claims that the liberal idea has become obsolete and that authoritarian regimes will prevail over democracies. After all, this is the conflict that has replaced the struggle between ideologies in our time. On the one hand, there are liberal democracies, with their limits and their strength; on the other hand, authoritarian regimes, with the unscrupulousness and speed of their decisions. Today, the number of nations with the atomic bomb is close to ten, and while we in the Italian Senate are debating peace and war, dozens of real, small and large wars are taking place in the world. If we want a peaceful coexistence, this is the inclined plan that we must overthrow and, to do so today, we have only one way: the road to strengthening Europe and NATO, the road to political unity of Europe, the road to a true defence policy that Senators Nencini, Alfieri and also Senator La Russa have already mentioned in this House, whose speech I appreciated and which seemed to me to be different from that of Senator Fazzolari, of his Group, who spoke after him. If, in the face of the need to impose sanctions on Russia proportionate to its act of war against Ukraine, Europe will be united not only formally, but also substantially, it will mean that we are on the right track. Scholz's decision to suspend the Nord Stream pipeline is not only an economic sanction, it also has great political value, because it tells us that national interests today have to go into the background of the overall interest of Europe and its liberal democracy. I close, President, remembering that a few days ago in the Italian bookstores began the distribution of a beautiful book by the historian Florian Illies, which tells, with much wisdom, the childish unconsciousness and the guilty distraction with which most of the European leaders lived the decade of the last century that preceded the Holocaust and the Second World War. No one could see or would look at the tragedy to which Europe was rushing. It is a beautiful book, of which I believe it is very useful to recommend reading today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u90	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u91	Mr President, we fully agree with the line taken by our Government, which Minister Di Maio has come to explain - and I thank him for that - through a thorough and comprehensive report, as well as with the positions taken by the President of the Council which I would summarize - I apologise for the summary - in the absolute determination of the condemnation of Putin's very serious act, which is attentive to the integrity and territorial sovereignty of a country. At the same time as an absolute and firm condemnation, however, the path of dialogue must be kept open. Looking back to the interesting intervention of Senator Zanda, for me the great difference between the essence of a democratic and liberal regime and dictatorships is that in democratic regimes the main way to resolve conflicts is absolutely that of negotiation, dialogue, openness, building bridges and certainly not raising walls. In my opinion, in this affair, even more in the last dramatic hours that the Minister has described to us, we should put in place all the tools available to diplomacy to try to open what may seem like a road that has been tightened more and more, but that we must have the ability to force. Of course, whenever there is a crisis - we are used to it now - in this House, we rightly invoke and regret the fact that the European Union does not have a common foreign and defence policy, nor a common energy policy. However, precisely because we are always aware of this when there are crises, we cannot give up our role in Europe as well. It seems to me that this is the only path we can take at the moment in response to nationalism. We have all listened to Putin's long speech based on hypernationalism: the great Russia, we have returned to the Tsar Romanov. It is, therefore, a nationalism that we feel grow, but that has also grown within our Europe. It is a poisonous fruit that goes against the path of a common European policy in defence, foreign policy and in other areas. We have also seen it grow within Europe, particularly in countries born from the collapse of the Soviet Union, and that exasperated nationalism has also grown within Ukraine. We have arrived in an exasperated way: there are historical reasons, starting from the millions of deaths from hunger, to the fact that in Ukraine they had welcomed the neo-Nazi army as a liberating army. The historical reasons are many and history must never forget it, because it shapes the spirit of the peoples. Also there is that growing nationalism that led to the rehabilitation of a criminal like Bandera, with monuments and everything else. We must remember this because we cannot approve the provision on memory travel and then forget what happens. Above all, we, who are one of the founding countries of the European Union and who believe in its founding values such as freedom, democracy and solidarity, must do so. Then there is the question of resources. Let us not forget that the inclined plan towards which - as Senator Zanda said with concern - the world risks slipping is linked to competition on resources. We continue to talk about foreign policy, but we do not understand that we are moving more and more towards competition and war for control of resources. Of course, there is Russian imperialism, but much will be played on the energy issue, which is our concern. Which way to go? I could subscribe to Mr Ferrara's speech, which I thank for his presentation. I think that the model he outlined, namely the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in Helsinki in 1975, is what we should pursue. The question of Ukraine's right or not to request entry into NATO, as well as the issue of borders, must also be addressed in the context of a conference and negotiation, where we must put our security and all the peoples (from the Baltic countries, Georgia, Crimea, Russia) at the centre. That is the point: we must have the strength to put in place the instruments of negotiation, diplomacy and conferences for a matter of security and peaceful coexistence that concerns all of us. Have any mistakes been made in the past? Probably, but I don't want to go back on it. This is what we are facing today. I'm a pacifist and always will be. Therefore, I will say to the end - being realistic and, therefore, pacifist - that we will never set aside the path of diplomacy and surrender to the noises of war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u92	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to address an important issue. It is right to speak in times of foreign policy crisis and we are doing so today for very dangerous action. However, it would be nice if this House were more often involved in talking about foreign policy. The last time this happened with regard to the Afghan situation and today we are talking about Ukraine. I think that the size of a country is measured by foreign policy. Perhaps in this House we could talk more about finding solutions and ideas to suggest to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and President Draghi, because it is through these choices that the greatness of our country is determined. I was very pleased when President Draghi was very determined, determined and pragmatic in defending President Ursula von der Leyen with regard to the Turkish question, with a test of international diplomacy and decision of our country. In these moments we feel proud to belong to a country that wants to be respected also abroad. We come to the current situation: the economy has just started again, starting again after two difficult years. But there is also great competition on raw materials, a very important arms race, tension in the East China Sea and the crisis in Ukraine. We need to be clear about what is going on, and then we need to give answers. I have heard many judgments from my fellow Members today. I believe, however, that sometimes ruling and expressing judgments also block diplomacy. You, Minister, said that diplomacy - even ours - is doing a great job. I am very happy and thank all our diplomats and staff who are working to find a solution. As you said, we must use diplomacy a lot and be pragmatic in order to avoid a conflict, which - I hope not - could be at home. I think, in short, as a first point, that none of us are in favour of war. Today, unanimously, we are all opposed to any act of war; all of us in this House, but also in the real world of our country. The second point is that the vast majority of this House, as well as my own personal view and my Group, believe that, since it is in the Atlantic Pact, it must be respected. Thirdly, however, we must listen to and understand the will of the peoples who must be respected, as the UN stated in 1966 with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which was adopted in our country in 1976. I was taking into account the actors in the current situation and their different and opposing interests. We have Italian interests, those of America, Russia, Europe, the countries of the Atlantic Pact, Ukraine and then also the interests of the people of Crimea and Donbass. There are various actors and, when one makes diplomacy, express - as I heard today - certain sentences do not help. It is necessary to find the synthesis of the various interests, the meeting point. We must put ourselves in the shoes of those actors in order to find the synthesis and avoid something absolutely disastrous that could be war, but it could also be - equally disastrous - the economic sanctions, on which the country will naturally decide. I don't mean we're against it, and it's war data. However, we must also consider the repercussions of these sanctions. It is easy, for those who sign them, to set sanctions, but then they have repercussions in the real country; they have repercussions in the people of companies, perhaps employees of entrepreneurs, companies that close precisely because they suffer their consequences. The country will decide, but we are careful to establish sanctions, reasoning also in the interest of our country. Minister, in conclusion, for our part, great space and great work to diplomacy in order to be able to listen to all the actors I have listed before - certainly I have forgotten some of them, limiting myself to the most important ones - in order to find a solution that is good for all the countries concerned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u94	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u95	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are following with great apprehension the news of the last few hours, starting obviously from President Putin's announcement on the recognition of the two separatist territories of Donetsk and Lugansk. Even more shocking is the news that the first Russian military convoys are entering territories that fall under Ukrainian sovereignty. We have therefore appreciated the firmest condemnation of the decisions taken by Russia by the Government, starting with President Draghi, and on his part. In these hours, Italy's support for democratic sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine must be clear. You, Minister, have been very clear in reaffirming the importance of maintaining European compactness and constant coordination with our allies, objectives you have been working on and contributing to for weeks. We have followed the succession of high-level meetings between Foreign Ministers, first of all that of yesterday's G7 and the extraordinary meeting of the Paris Foreign Affairs Council. Your information today has given us an up-to-date and clear picture of the situation, of our positions and of the perspective, of the dialogue in firmness, towards which we try to direct a crisis that can further worsen and cause serious damage to the stability and prosperity of our continent. The Movimento 5 Star Group strongly supports the government's conduct so far and strongly reiterates the call of the whole European Union, made yesterday by High Representative Borrell. We must be ready to quickly adopt targeted political and economic sanctions, reaffirming our full support and commitment to Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. In doing so, we urge Russia to withdraw the recognition of areas not controlled by the Ukrainian Government in the regions of Donetsk and Lugansk; to maintain its commitments; to respect international law and to return to discussions within the Normandy format and the Trilateral Contact Group. These are the statements of the High Representative that we share. Appreciation for the incessant diplomatic effort of his and all the government coexists with our concern for the dark scenarios that seem to open up just now that Europe was trying, with great difficulty, to rise from the serious economic crisis caused by the pandemic. Energy supplies could be seriously affected as a result of a further fall in the crisis. I am thinking, for example, of the weight that supplies from Russia and transiting from Ukraine have in relation to the energy needs of Italy and all other European countries. Our attention, Minister, goes - as you said - also to the Italians who are currently in Ukraine. Without creating alarms, we have taken note of the commitment of the Farnesina and the Government to protect them. For weeks the Ukrainian leadership has denounced the first economic cost of this crisis, whose repercussions - as confirmed by its information today - are beginning to become apparent also in Russia. We therefore call for Italy to ensure that its support for Ukraine is maintained, including through loans and emergency aid. That of the last days is also a war of information, a war of opposing narratives. For this reason we appreciate the role always marked by dialogue and transparency, set by our country in its contacts with Russia, Ukraine and allies. Dialogue must continue to play a central role. It is, in fact, the only antidote to misinformation that accompanies the chronicles of these days. It is the only way to try to bring all parties back to the negotiating table; a table that has been dangerously abandoned by the Russian side. The dialogue between the United States and NATO - on the one hand - and the Russian Federation - on the other - on Russia's proposals for security guarantees in Europe has shown that a concrete confrontation can still be opened. It is up to Russia now to resume the path of political-diplomatic dialogue, despite the latest developments unfortunately going in the opposite direction. It is precisely for this reason that we support the efforts to raise awareness of Moscow, so that it responds positively to the readiness of its ally to engage in serious and concrete confrontation; efforts which Italy, Minister, must continue to pursue. As a guarantee of the survival of a dialogue channel, we believe it is important to rely - as you said - on the OSCE mission and on the role of the observers present in eastern Ukraine, some of whom are beyond the line of contact between the area under government control and that controlled by the separatist authorities. The Italian presence there is another symbol of our determination never to divide peace and security; a commitment for which the OSCE offers the best tools. The comprehensive approach to security that characterizes the OSCE also brings our reasoning to Belarus, which is an essential part of this equation. We therefore call on the Government to continue to monitor the forthcoming referendum on the reform of the Constitution, which could even encourage the deployment of nuclear weapons on Belarusian territory. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been facing one of the most serious security crises in Europe since the end of the Cold War. At this moment, Parliament must ensure that the government is given all the support it needs for a very difficult mediation action. Italy plays a key role thanks to its strong membership of the Atlantic Alliance; thanks to EU action and structured relations with Russia and Ukraine, not only in economic and commercial terms. The Government, Minister, therefore, deserves all the strong support from the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u96	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u97	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your willingness. The conjunction of votes in committees where the presence of the quorum was necessary, in fact, required a reversal of the order of interventions. I would also like to thank my colleagues who have accepted this amendment, due to parliamentary work at the same time as the sitting of this House. Minister, the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC - like all parliamentary groups - obviously shares the government's action and the fact that decisions must be taken at international level; this is because the violations that have been carried out are obvious. It has been discussed and I must not stress it once more. However, I would like to use this opportunity, Minister, to make some additional reflections. This scenario is not unprecedented. We all studied Crimean war at school. There was still the Kingdom of Sardinia and Cavour sent his soldiers, to ensure that the Kingdom of Sardinia could then sit at the international tables and thus find support in the wars of independence. The Crimean war was fought between Western countries, who fought with the Russians for control of outlets to the Mediterranean and for some holy places that had been occupied. Crimea, however, is there. Since 1853, almost two centuries have passed, but it is obviously a complicated area, an area where conflicts have been renewed over time. I say this because, otherwise, it seems to be a rogue state, which at some point makes a retaliation, and because there are some in the world, unfortunately. It is a great, enormous tragedy in history, however, that has also been proposed in the form of conflicts over the centuries. After that, Russia is Russia. He's had his transformations. Fortunately, she has been freed from that long and horrendous phase for the planet of the Soviet Union. Merkel, however, said a few years ago that Putin, like many Russians, reasoned in the 21st century with a 19th-century mentality, proposing some historical questions, such as the influence of geopolitics, which are part - like it or not - of the history of humanity. The world, Minister, is not what we would like. The world is as it is, with all its problems and with all the issues that I think you too, in this experience, could have learned to evaluate differently than, perhaps, at one time when you were more based on personal impressions. Gennaro Sangiuliano today wrote a nice article - I'll tell him - on. "Il Sole 24 Ore" - he also wrote a beautiful biography of Putin - and the title that gave the newspaper is "The siege syndrome." We must also descend into that historical context. When there are parades in Moscow, many parades with photos of their parents, their grandparents, who perform at the end of the parades; first pass the armed forces, framed geometrically, and then pass the people. Once Putin came down from the stage and paraded with his father's photo: he had been involved, like many Russian generations, in the tragedies of the past century. So, the obsession is about Russian history. Now I do not want to go back: I have already mentioned the Crimean war in 1853 and I could talk about Napoleon or the events of the Second World War, which Russia resolved also thanks to its enormous size and the general winter. So this is an issue that exists in history, in the agenda of peoples, and it can be addressed in various ways. We do not think that we should be confronted with a conflict. You were right to stress the government's commitment. Dialogue is essential and must continue along the path of dialogue, taking into account, however, the existing historical conditions. Days ago General Arpino, who was an esteemed Chief of Staff of the Italian Armed Forces, in an interview in a newspaper, recalled how we should bring Russia to us: St. Petersburg, the city of Putin, is West; Putin was born in St. Petersburg and knows very well where the West begins and ends; Italian architects also modeled it for what it is. So we need to go a little deeper into the reasons of history, understand the obsessions and interweavings of history and civilization, as well as the clashes that have occurred, like the one in progress. I do not understand why the various Italian governments had realpolitik with China - you were a protagonist - the Silk Road. When was the last time you voted in China, Minister? What is the degree of democracy in China? What are the rights guaranteed in China to certain minorities and peoples? Zero. Yet, everyone is genuflexic in front of China, Hong Kong, and I could make lists. So, even this realpolitik in some cases applies, in others it does not. Then, we must defend the peoples, the Ukrainians, their borders, for goodness sake, but the world is complicated. Who knows the Uyghurs or citizens of Hong Kong what they think of the hypocrisy of the Western world that is not of today, that there has always been, even in the past. Let us think about the Treaties of Munich, and we could quote a lot of strange things. Then there is the problem of energy independence: we make differentiated sanctions, otherwise we impose sanctions on our peoples. Like it or not, 40-50 percent of our gas comes from Russia, and comes with pipes so you open the tap and that gas comes direct. Let's try to import it from other parts of the world, with ships and regasifiers that aren't made. Let us reflect - today Galli Della Loggia does this - on the mistakes made: the energy autonomy of Italy and Europe is an objective that many have hindered over the years. [[Applause]] Once there will be oil shock with the sheikhs, once the conflict in Ukraine. I do not know what will happen in 2148, but perhaps there will be an energy crisis. I'm not Nostradamus, but I've studied history. I remember - someone bigger will remember - the Sundays on foot of the seventies, and not the ecological ones, because there was the first oil crisis; then there was the second with the Iran-Iraq war. So when are we planning energy independence? No drills, no drills, no drills, no drill drills. It is an issue that must be addressed, that does not solve the problem of energy tomorrow morning and bills, for which the money is needed now and immediately by the Government, as Forza Italia has asked. But can we go on for years and years or until the next stage in history with 5 billion a week? The energy issue must be raised because it emerges. There can be a crisis in the world and one must be able to deal with it without being dependent on others. In addition, with regard to sanctions, be careful: we lost 10 billion exports with the other sanctions to Russia for Crimea and never recovered them. We export furniture - even the table with which Putin keeps the other statesmen away was made in Lombardy - agri-food products and shoes from Fermo. So, we suffer damage. The Russian tourists who come to us will also spend in cash. Let's also tell the government: cash is not so damned when they come to pay our waiters, our hoteliers, our sailors. [[Applause]] So let's not be self-sanctioned. As for Americans, do you know what Monroe doctrine is? An American President of the 19th century, former Secretary of State - I believe they spoke to him about it at Farnesina - established that what was happening in the American hemisphere was their responsibility. When the Russians brought missiles to Cuba in 1962, John Fitzgerald Kennedy - almost as sanctified as a saint, a man of peace - threatened World War III, until the Russians took the missiles away. Is it absolutely essential to assume that Ukraine should join NATO? This is also a fact that needs to be considered. The enlargement of Europe to the East, the result of the end of communism in which many still believed in Italy, is a good thing, but the entry into NATO is a useless threat, because we must also take into account the obsessions of others. We must remember that we can make another policy. I refer to the spirit of Sea Practice: twenty years ago, a Council President like Silvio Berlusconi, with the realpolitik, spoke with the East and the West. The greatest pro-American President, who thanked the Americans at the American Congress for having liberated our country several times from the risk of dictatorships and aggressions or internal dictatorships, Berlusconi had a standing ovation repeated in that assembly. We do not, therefore, take lessons in atlantism and loyalty from anyone. [[Applause]] But there is also the realpolitik, because Berlusconi brought Putin - not Attila - to the table of Practice of the Sea, to the agreements NATO-Russian Federation. That's the way to go. You mentioned the tables and negotiations in your speech, but you need the political capacity that may be lacking today to manage these processes and Silvio Berlusconi had this capacity and it is a recognition that the country and the international community owe him. [[Applause]] The same thing he did with Gaddafi and - by chance - from Russia and Libya Italian energy arrives. Gaddafi was disliked too, and now how many phone calls do you have to make to talk to Libya? It was better Westminster in Libya instead of Gaddafi, but the world is not what we want, it is what it is and so Berlusconi spoke with Putin, Bush and Gaddafi. It takes capacity to handle international crises. Today we do not lack, Minister, only gas: we also lack leadership in the West, and I do not mean only in Italy. We hope that the government will be able to deal with these events; that it will look at the precedents of history and be anchored in the West, in NATO, in this reality. I also wish him a dialogue with the world as it is and to take charge of other people's obsessions. NATO is so strong that it does not need to go across borders. On the contrary, we are happy that many are in the European Union, although instead of celebrating that Hungary and Poland are not under the Soviet Union that is no longer there, someone would like to kick them out of Europe. We don't do the wrong expulsions and inappropriate acquisitions. Balance, seriousness: the spirit of Sea Practice is the path to the future of the international community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u98	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. In order to proceed with the sanitization of the Chamber, I suspend the sitting which will resume at 15.45 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 14.44 p.m. and resumed at 15.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u99	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1402. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues, today we are dealing with an extremely sensitive issue, which has been put on a number of sides the need to address. In the last parliamentary term, we approved the so-called road murder text. Who was there and who remembers it knows that the text originally included also a part that concerned the so-called nautical homicide, which was then removed, because it was felt that it would be better to address the issue in an isolated and autonomous way than the road murder, which has caused so many problems. So it was decided to cut out all that part. I must say that, despite the fact that the text on road murder has a lot of problems, which we know and which we face in everyday life, it is undeniable that the result has been achieved by reducing in an absolutely sensitive way the number of deaths following these events, in particular the deaths on Saturday evening. The measure really served to remedy a little; it is certainly a law that needs to be revised, but we also certainly have the awareness that some results have brought them. I must say that, however, there was a great deal of feeling about the need for greater safety in the nautical sector, particularly during the summer months. More and more often we see the repetition of serious accidents, at sea or in lakes, which endanger the tranquillity, safety and life of bathers and, more generally, of those who love the sea, water and lakes. Also recently, during the inauguration of the judicial year in the district of the court of appeal of Brescia, it had been remembered the case of the ugly nautical accident that last summer on Lake Garda had cost the life of two young people, Greta Nedrotti and Umberto Garzarella, who had died overwhelmed by a motorboat led by two Germans who are today at trial. At the inauguration of the judicial year, the Attorney General of Brescia had hoped that this subject, which is extremely sensitive, would finally be put into practice. Going by sea, in fact, is not easy and although the amount of traffic is considerably lower than that of the means that circulate on the roads, surely to do so needs a specific preparation that often and willingly you do not have. Beware, moreover, that often and willingly those who circulate on the sea have to the hands of the real weapons that, among other things, you can safely drive without any license: think of the jet skis of small displacement, but above all the dinghies that are often equipped with powerful motors from 40 horses, therefore they are extremely fast, and are entrusted to the driving of very young and inexperienced people, who do not know the rules of the sea, where there are precise norms to respect. These situations create very often conditions of danger for bathers who are on the beach, perhaps with children, who are seen in front of very fast dinghys that, as I said, endanger their safety. We have therefore gathered the petition of the first signatory to this bill, Senator Balboni, who, with pervicacia - in this sense we must thank him - has supported the need to discuss it and bring it to the attention of the Assembly. In general, in fact, to the accidents that happen at sea was applied the general discipline on the murder and the injury to man; instead, now it has put itself into the matter and has elaborated a sort of measure specular to that on the street murder, which aggravates the penalties especially for the most serious facts. It was also inconceivable that there were situations of street murder punished even up to eighteen years (we know that they are very particular cases and quite rare), compared instead to an accident at sea concluded with the death of someone who, as often happens, can be punished with the penalty of six months of imprisonment. The purpose of this draft law is therefore to fill a real legislative gap, which is unacceptable because, as I said, it does not meet the proportionality criteria for the reasons I have just said. Among other things, the psychic attitude of the deed is even more unacceptable when it is thought that the same person responsible for the death of another, if he is driving a car can be punished abstractly with a sentence of up to eighteen years imprisonment, instead in the case of accidents at sea with a sentence of six months. From this point of view, therefore, it becomes crucial to influence not only the extent of the sentence and the measures that guarantee its immediate effectiveness, but above all the correct framing of the psychological approach of those who, aware of the danger of their conduct (as I said, unfortunately not all people are aware of having a weapon in their hands), accept the risk in contempt of the almost inevitable consequences and above all in contempt of the evaluation of the life and safety of others. With the bill in question it is therefore proposed to introduce a behavioral discipline in case of nautical accident as much as possible in accordance with the one in force for serious or serious personal road injuries, therefore also in cases in which the death and the injuries are determined by subject to the driving of motor boats. As I said, it's a sort of speculative measure to what concerns murder and road injuries. With this measure we have also taken the opportunity to resolve some critical issues arising from the application of the legislation on murder and, in particular, on road injuries, intervening, to the extent strictly necessary, on some provisions both substantive and procedural. In this respect, I would like to say that it is certainly not the panacea of all evils, but it was certainly necessary for a first intervention and then, as always, we will try to fix these two measures even better. Mr President, I have already thanked Senator Balboni, the first signatory of the measure, and I would now like to highlight the cooperative attitude that has taken place during the examination of the draft law. The Commission has set up a subcommittee and all its members have worked on drafting the text which is now before the Assembly. It has really worked in an atmosphere of effective collaboration. We must therefore thank all the members of the Commission, President Ostellari, who welcomed this proposal and the Government for their cooperative attitude. Undersecretary Sisto has followed and has always been present at the work and our thanks go to him because we are actually filling a gap in the system. The measure - we know - is certainly not the best, but with it we put a bit of order in a very sensitive and delicate matter especially in the summer months, allowing families to be quieter in the wet dryer. We will have the opportunity to apply far more serious sanctions for those who are driving dangerous means, aware of the consequences they face. Finally, a very heartfelt thanks goes to Dr. Buonomo and Dr. Ruscica, who as always collaborated very actively, helping us in the drafting of the final text with great professionalism and competence. Therefore, I believe that it is right of all of us to express our sincere thanks to them as well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u101	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u102	Mr President, I take the floor on this extremely sensitive issue. With the bill signed by Senator Balboni, the Brothers of Italy Group demonstrates, once again, that it is a constructive opposition, which we call patriotic because of its quality and responsibility. That is why we are proposing today to extend the rules of criminal law for road murder and serious and serious injuries to motor boat drivers. As we like to recall, Parliament, if put to the test and in a position to work, knows how to give answers, and that is why I want to publicly thank Senator Balboni for his sensitivity and for the work he has done, aimed at perfecting the regulatory framework, which needed this approach. In the sea, in fact, for a number of worrying reasons that I am not here to list, there is no security and you risk your life too many times. As the rapporteur also said, newspapers and newspapers report the many tragedies that occur especially in summer periods in lakes and seas and in which all too often children lose their lives. There are so many reasons, including carelessness. The Coast Guard has no means of providing security for its citizens. That is why a law that introduces the crime of nautical murder becomes indispensable and that regulates it with the same discipline as for the road murder. In our examination of the draft law, boaters at the helm of motor boats with the effect, for example, of alcohol or drugs, which cause the death of a person or cause serious injuries, are considered as the driver of the car who commits the same crime. It seems to everyone, not only to me, I believe, clearly insane and unacceptable that the person responsible for a death driving a car risks 18 years in jail, while instead if he is driving a boat, he risks a sentence that can be only six months. There was a vulnus in our system that we took responsibility for trying to fill. For this reason I thank the Brothers of Italy Group and Senator Balboni; it needed a piece that could protect the lives of thousands and thousands of citizens. It is a strong signal precisely because it is a rule that can act as a deterrent for an invitation to caution to anyone who is riding a boat. I agree with the rapporteur's words that these very high speed motorboats are increasingly being used by people without licences and also - let us say - the ability to use the same vehicle. It is a bit wide from the point of view of permissiveness in the use of these powerful boats especially during the summer. The bill before us - I would like to stress this - presents another very important aspect that is that raised by the lawyering of the criminal chambers, which follows a proposal of law of our leader Ciriani, aimed at alleviating the inflamed courts and giving the possibility to resolve small private conflicts in a bonaria way, especially those concerning road accidents. It is another sign of civilization that shows how the bill really goes in the right direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u103	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u104	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in its report on the nautical port in Italy in 2019 had recorded in the last three years a number of marine casualties of 742, with 32 deaths and 154 injuries. The reasons for regulatory action can therefore be found in the need to have adequate regulatory instruments in order to improve the safety levels of navigation. In fact the same practice of navigation activities, on the one hand, and the data reported with regard to the indices of sinisterness on the other, make evident the necessity of the legislative provision. The examination in the Committee on Justice saw the setting up of a restricted committee, to which I personally participated as a representative of the Movimento 5 Star Group, to draw up a joint text to be submitted to the Commission in plenary. The result has been that of a text that has absorbed in a very large part, I would say almost all, the amendments tabled by the Movimento 5 Star Group. In giving this mandate to the rapporteur, unanimity has even been achieved. The reformer intervention has equated murder and road injuries with those related to maritime navigation. It was, in fact, illogical, from a sanction point of view, in relation to the principles of proportionality and adequacy of the sanction, to punish in a different way almost identical conducts, carried out in similar contexts. Although it is much simpler and more frequent on the road to be involved in a collision between vehicles, the protected legal good is the same: human life and safety of circulation. The same behavior that involves the death of a person, according to the current legislation, can be, in case of street murder, punished with the penalty of imprisonment up to a maximum of eighteen years, instead, in case of murder happened in relation to the norms relative to navigation, with an absolutely more modest penalty. There is no provision in our legal system for an ad hoc criminal case. In fact, those who put in place a reckless conduct, in contempt of the rules of prudence and navigation, for example approaching at full speed and in a state of drunkenness in a motorboat to the coast full of bathers, to the point of foreshadowing the possibility of killing, at the present time cannot be punished with the same norm of road murder, except through a series of complicated legal assessments in relation to the psychological element of the crime, with which the penalty could be increased. That is why it was and is urgent to adapt the nautical murder to the road murder. Another point I would like to mention is the forecast of the incidence of murder and road or nautical injuries committed in a state of alteration, due to the use of drugs or in a state of drunkenness from alcohol. This issue has also been included in the bill. In conclusion, it is the task of the legislator to protect the movement of persons in all the ways in which it takes place, precisely to protect public safety and the individual. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u105	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u106	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about Amendment 1.2, which seeks to replace, wherever it is reported, the expression 'watercraft' with the expression 'native boat' or'ship'. This is because, referring exclusively to recreational craft, commercial units would be excluded and there would be an unjustified exemption from the penalty. With the generic definition of "natantante", which, as we know, is the unit up to 10 meters, of "boat", which, as we know, is the unit from 10 to 24 meters, and "ship", which is the legal definition of unit over 24 meters, we have embraced everything that is to be considered naval unit, whether commercial or recreational.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u107	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u108	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u109	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u110	Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Pillon. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u113	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the petition on Change.org, which collected more than 130,000 signatures, reads as follows: On June 19, 2021, two boys were boating in Salò, in the evening, like many people at Lake Garda and in all Italian lakes and seas. They were quiet and enjoyed the summer evening and never would have thought that a motorboat could literally pass over him by killing Umberto at a stroke and jumping Greta into the water, causing her numerous fractures and causing her death by drowning. The accident is that of Umberto Garzarella and Greta Nedrotti, thirty-seven and twenty-five years respectively, two friends overwhelmed by a speedboat owned by two German managers on the night of June 19, 2021 on Lake Garda, near Salò. I think it is important to start from here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only from the tragedy, unfortunately not only the tragedy, but also from the request, loudly shouted out, to do something so that such facts can find an appropriate sanctioning response. Today, in this House, we are finally about to conclude a very troubled path, which has lasted years, which has seen the attempt by this Parliament, already in the last parliamentary term, to fill a legal vacuum with reference to the nautical murder case. Talking about a lack of legislation that needs to be filled is a must, given the need to protect the primary good that our order is called to protect, namely life and physical integrity. The legislator has the task of providing adequate protection for the good of life. In this particular case, it is the task of doing so when a violation of the rules governing maritime navigation results in the death or injury of a person. In the present case, it is not conceivable to mutual, as has been done so far, the discipline and sanctioning treatment of simple manslaughter, the one referred to in Article 589 of the Criminal Code, which provides for a sentence from six months to five years. Too low penalties which, in fact, at the time, due to the fact that I mentioned earlier, did not allow the detention of the German lord. This is because it becomes essential to differentiate criminal protection by sectors, at least when the peculiarities of the context, the instrument used and the modalities are such as to require greater sanctioning effectiveness. It is therefore the task of the legislator to protect the movement of persons in all the ways in which this happens, and it is for this reason that the extension of the criminal rules for road murder and for serious or serious personal road injuries was an obligatory passage also to the cases in which death and injuries are caused by those who drive boats. Life and physical integrity can be put at risk in the same way whether this is a consequence of a violation of the rules on road traffic, or whether the event of death or injury is caused by a breach of the rules on maritime or inland navigation. Therefore, the cases of nautical murder and nautical injuries fall today within the scope of Articles 589- bis and 590- bis of the Criminal Code, which currently regulate the only case of road murder and road injuries, but which with this bill will also embrace the homologous hypotheses made with recreational units, in violation of the rules governing maritime navigation. Even if we want to put the more strictly legal issues aside for a moment, there is a numerical figure that we cannot afford to ignore. The data that are supplied to us from the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports in the report the nautical diporto in Italy in 2020 speaks to us of an exponential increase of the marine lefts in the section of the navigation, for a total of 287 with 65 victims. The figure - which includes different types of accidents recorded - is, unfortunately, constantly growing. The extensive practice of navigation activities, on the one hand, and the data on the indicators of sinisterness, on the other hand, can only make evident and urgent the need to intervene with appropriate regulatory tools, in order to improve the safety levels of navigation on lacual and river marine waters. Without going into the details of the individual forecasts, on which my colleagues have already addressed a great deal - the senators who preceded me and the rapporteur, Giuseppe Luigi Cucca, whom I thank - I would like to stress how the road followed by this measure was to transpose, within the discipline of navigation and nautical pleasure, the same approach followed by the discipline of road traffic, also with reference to the rules and sanctions provided for driving under the effect of alcohol and in a state of psychophysical alteration, resulting from the intake of narcotic or psychotropic substances. Again, I would like to remind you that the German gentleman refused at the time to take blood tests to see if he had taken drugs or alcohol. Let me say that this was not so obvious today, not least because of the difficulties that have arisen along the path of approval, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. I am therefore very pleased with all the work done by my colleagues in the Commission on justice, in particular by Senator Balboni, the first signatory to this bill, whom I thank, also through the improvements that have been made in the restricted committee. I would once again like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, who has made a strong effort to achieve this result. Mr President, I conclude by saying that with this measure we finally have the opportunity to fill an important vulnus of protection, putting an end to the unequal treatment of nautical murder and road murder and finally providing an adequate criminal response in the face of the tragic events that have unfortunately multiplied in recent months and in recent years. For all these reasons, I declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u116	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank President Ostellari, the rapporteur, Senator Cucca and all the Members of the Commission, because I am the first signatory to this bill, but in fact the text is the work of the whole Commission, in particular the Committee which has worked on it and which has received so many important suggestions to dismiss a text that is more important than we can believe. The nautical traffic, in fact, in recent decades, but especially in recent years, has become very intense, our beaches, our shores, our coasts, our sea are frequented for many months a year by millions of bathers, users, diportisti, not to mention, of course, all the commercial traffic, also in exponential increase. All this, of course, involves an increase in the risks that a motor vehicle, even if it travels on the water, can represent for others that are found on other motor vehicles and especially for those who are in the water. I believe that we have all witnessed absolutely dangerous and imprudent behaviors, we have seen very often on our beaches jet skis, dinghy or outboard arrive up on the beach at full speed, perhaps sometimes slaloming among bathers, even among the children who bathed a few meters from the shore and unfortunately every year there are fatal accidents or even, if not mortal, very serious, because the impact of a propeller on a person sometimes leaves signs for life and disability even very serious. These are injuries that very often lead to a permanent disability even very high. It was therefore necessary to fill what the rapporteur rightly pointed out as a vulnus, a deficiency in our judicial system, because it is obvious that the feeling of justice of all of us rebels when he sees such a different treatment of manslaughter or serious manslaughter affecting the same identical protected legal good, which is the life and safety of people. We do not understand why, if murder or injury is caused by violating the rules of the road code, we can reach even very high penalties in the presence of aggravating agents such as driving in a state of drunkenness, while if we violate the rules of the navigation code we must apply a completely different discipline, so - even as other colleagues before me remembered - in the end we reach a sentence of a few months. It is news of a few days ago the sentence of the court of Temple Pausania that sentenced to eight months of imprisonment, with all the benefits of law (conditional suspension) the driver of an outboard who killed a diver while he was fishing underwater a few meters from the shore with his signal balloon. Imagine the consternation of family members, children, wife in the face of such a low penalty. These are really unacceptable things. So there was this gap to be filled. Obviously we cannot say that by approving this bill we will get the result of solving immediately the danger for anyone entering the water or staying at sea, because there is cultural work, education and prevention to be done. Exactly as for road users, even those who go to sea must do a work of education and awareness. Very often, in fact, those who go to the sea today can lead a boat up to 40 horses without any notion, without knowing the rules, without even knowing how to conduct that vehicle; just go to the first boat and rent a boat of this kind. It would be like allowing a person without a driving licence to be able to drive on the streets of our city a utilitarian, even not small, because the outboards today are very powerful and too often are manipulated to increase its power. Clearly, then, there is a much broader speech to be made. As the establishment of road murder has led to a significant reduction in serious, serious and especially fatal accidents, I am convinced that, if properly advertised, the establishment of nautical murder will also bring a benefit. It is clear that if, above all, young people and young people, but in any case people who have no idea of the dangers they cause by carrying a boat especially close to the shore, know that, instead of risking six months, eight months, a year with the conditional (especially if they have abused alcohol or drugs), with this bill - if, as I hope, it will also be approved in the other branch of Parliament, perhaps before the beginning of the bathing season - they risk a few years, they will inevitably be led to greater prudence and greater esteem of the actions they are doing. I repeat, this is a bill that I am happy to have produced as input, but it is the result of all the political forces present in the Commission, who have all worked together to get to this text. It is important that, together with this result, we have also had the opportunity to take advantage of the invitation that the Court of Cassation made over a year ago to change the persecubility of road injuries (at this point also nautical). As the Supreme Court has said in that famous sentence, it is unreasonable that there is always and in any case the persecubility of office; and we have also intervened on this aspect. Among other things, it is a reform that was already brought forward in the delegation law that we approved a few months ago, so the injuries that have not been aggravated by this reform will be prosecuted and will no longer be prosecuted automatically. This will also make it easier to obtain compensation for the damage. It is clear that very often to the injured, to those who have suffered a injury - we are talking about injury, not murder -, instead of a penalty that then remains 99 percent of the time only written in the criminal certificate and does not go beyond, the most important thing is to obtain compensation for the damage he has suffered. With this change we make it even easier to make a path that leads to compensation, so also, as my colleague Ruspandini pointed out earlier, to a greater lightening of the burden of our courts that, as we know, already have enough to do, without overloading of further trials issues that can be resolved between the parties. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that I am very pleased because today I believe that politics has shown that, when we want and when we know what the objective is, we can all work together to achieve a result in the interests of our entire community. Who knows that next summer, in a few months, moms, bathers and children can have a little more peace in enjoying our wonderful sea. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u119	MIRABELLI (PD). Madam President, very briefly, I too believe that what we are going to vote on today is an important measure. We may bring him to the House with some guilty delay, but it is certainly a measure that covers a legislative vacuum in the country, as has been mentioned. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, but above all Senator Balboni, for his passion, commitment and determination in pursuing this measure, which - I repeat - is a measure that covers a legislative vacuum. It has been very obvious in recent summers and in recent years that there was something wrong with our legislation. It was evident in the face of the events that followed, in which we saw accidents and several deaths of people invested by those who improperly used their boat, often under the influence of substances or alcohol. I remember the tragedy on the lake this summer and other events. With this law, I think we take a step forward, not just to hit misuse and nautical murder; we do something more. It is true that we take the legislation of the road murder and build a similar one for the nautical murder, but - as has been said in several interventions - we also give a very clear message: there are rules to be respected to go to sea and those rules must be respected. Boats and the sea can be sources of danger. True, there is no frequency in a city street and there is no constant danger that there may be in a street in a big city; but not seeing and not understanding that even at sea and even in a lake there may be real dangers of doing evil is a problem on which attention and culture must be rebuilt. Thanks to this measure, it seems to me that we do so, as we clearly say that it is guilty and dangerous to sail after abusing alcohol and other substances. I would add, before concluding: the fact that with this text we amend part of the law on road murder is also good. As Senator Balboni said earlier, the elimination of office procedures for manslaughter injuries is a step forward, which I think is positive. I stop here; many things have already been said. I also believe that today the commitment of all political forces and groups in Parliament must be to adopt the final measure as soon as possible in the House, after the long work of synthesis and sharing that has been done in this area of Parliament. Of course, for the content of the explanation of vote, it is clear that we will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u122	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, recent news reports report the tragic deaths caused by accidents in our seas, in our lakes, in front of our coasts and confirm the need to introduce the crime of nautical murder into the penal code as an autonomous crime, extending the rules already laid down for road murder and merging the two crimes into a single identical article. During the last parliamentary term, Parliament had already approved Law No 41 of 23 March 2016, which introduced in the penal code the crimes of road murder and personal road injuries, both punishable by guilt. It was a rule strongly desired by political forces in response to cases that really created emotion in public opinion and a need for social justice. With various interpretative efforts, the judges have, in fact, always tried to punish with the greatest possible penalty those who are driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs. However, if the legislator has come to review the criminal policy of the phenomenon of road accidents it is because there had been levels of danger that could no longer be opposed to the regulatory framework before 2016, based on criminal offences characterized by the psychological element of guilt mostly specific, as related to violations of rules of behaviour of the road code. There was no independent consideration in our legal system of the phenomenon, the protection of which was entrusted only to non-violent crime, although aggravated by the prediction of individual aggravating circumstances. In other words, the manslaughter committed by violating the rules of the highway code remained an aggravated hypothesis of manslaughter, while the new prediction supplemented an autonomous hypothesis of crime. The heart of the construction of these norms is therefore the identification of a correct framework of the psychological approach of those who, aware of the danger of their conduct, for example driving after having taken alcohol or drugs, accept the risk in total contempt of the possible consequences. This according to the categories recognized by the doctrine and the jurisprudence that aggravate the responsibility in cases of guilt with prediction. Today, six years after the adoption of those rules, we are going back to dealing with them. In fact, the text we are examining extends the rules already laid down also to the cases in which a boat, boat or ship is being driven (according to the amendment that has just been adopted) and is, in my view, more than correct. However, it was even more important to use this opportunity to correct certain aspects of the discipline introduced in 2016, improving it. In the case of serious and very serious personal injuries, which have not been aggravated by drug or alcoholic substances, for example, the prosecution of the offended person has been introduced, thus avoiding having to proceed automatically in the case of less serious cases. As Senator Balboni has also said, which has given strength to the initiative with its insistence and pervicacity, the introduction of the complaint favors the transactive hypotheses between the parties and a deflation of the judicial burden. We have therefore taken advantage of the equalization of the nautical murder to the road to make these corrections that have long been inevitable and heard by the public. It is also important to change the discipline of compulsory arrest in flagrant cases of road homicide (and, therefore, today also nautical) where it has been correctly specified that such form of compulsory arrest is not provided for those drivers who have immediately stopped working to lend or activate the rescue. The previous discipline did not foresee this case. In this way the behaviors of those who move away from the place of the event have been distinguished without providing any assistance and must be arrested by those of those who, on the other hand, have gone away but only after having activated to help the victims of the accident. These are very different situations, which must therefore be dealt with differently. Finally, I would like to address the appreciation that I have already expressed to Senator Balboni's initiative also to the work that has taken place in the Justice Commission, including through the restricted committee of which I have been a member. There has been a common will and the final result seems to me to be absolutely satisfactory, which is not always obvious. We believe that the measure can contribute to greater security for citizens also within our seas and lakes and that - above all - we can achieve greater information and education in terms of compliance not only with road rules but also with nautical standards. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u125	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I generally agree with what has been said, but I do so since I think that there are things that we can and could have reflected on, probably not on the final outcome of the draft law, but on recent history as well. I refer, in particular, to Law No 41 of 23 March 2016, which instituted the street murder. Then, in the course of the parliamentary work, it was decided to expunge the matter relating to everything that happened at sea, entrusting it to the code of navigation. Today we give an answer, but then obviously the problem was there. Article 589 of the Criminal Code, in the first paragraph, states that "anyone who causes the death of a person by fault shall be punished with imprisonment from six months to five years." Too little. Then there are the aggravating circumstances and we know that the case-law, precisely with regard to road traffic issues, has established that to those in a state of drunkenness or drug abuse, is put to drive, cannot apply automatically the case of the eventual dole, must remain within the guilt and the effect provided for by the original wording of Article 589. This formulation at most could provide for the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 61 of the Criminal Code, i.e. the common aggravating circumstance of having acted in anticipation of the event. Without this and taking away the other fact, namely that there was talk of accidents or crimes occurring in the field of road traffic, it was avoided that the wording of Article 589 entered into the beehive of compensation for the balancing of aggravating circumstances. So the legislator, after four years of discussion, has come to a text that is shared to a certain extent. I believe that this rule was adopted with confidence. Today, however, confidence in the provision is general, Senator Balboni. However, I would like to raise the question of the excessive use of the penalty, the criminal figure, a sort of creeping panpenalism that must solve all the problems. [[Applause]] , when from the educational point of view we are late. We need to start checking what the 2016 traffic homicide standard has produced. In this regard, I would like to propose some data, leaving aside the legal part relating to constitutionality and Articles 3 and 25, second and third paragraphs, of the Constitution. From the statistical point of view, Istat data show that since 1990 there has been a sharp decrease in road murders and a steady reduction in road murders since 2001. In 2001 there were 7,096 victims. This figure then recorded a significant decrease to 4,100 in 2010, 3,428 in 2015 and 3,28 in 2016, the year in which the bill on road murder was finally approved by the Senate. From the actual point of view, I would add a further and recent fact: in recent years there has been a significant increase in the claims related to the use of drugs and to the drunk driving of our young people. That is the worrying fact. [[Applause]] It is a fact that belongs to behavior, society and its evolution. Senator Balboni intervened by filling a void in relation to the matter, applying the same reasoning he had then, which Parliament did for road murder, applying it in an empty area and filling a space. Will all this be enough to introduce new behavior? Are we convinced that by always making use of the tightening of penalties and the identification of new cases, we can have a profound impact on society? No, I don't think it's that easy. But let's take it for good and that's why I say sine ira et studio. I therefore agree with this draft law, which my Group supports, but I do so with these reservations, probably not shared by some of my colleagues, but I believe that they follow the factual order, so to speak. Moreover, as some suggest, the statistical data goes somewhat counter-trend with respect to the identification of new crime figures. Article 589- bis of the penal code comes to embridle within it, not only the street murder, but also the nautical murder and therefore the violation of the rules on navigation. The theme is this: from the point of view of the principle of legality - let me say this - I continue to have some doubts about the taxableness of the case of criminal behavior. The jurisprudence is very clear: an event must be a consequence of a behavior and what is the behavior resulting from the violation of a rule of road traffic rather than the code of navigation? For this reason, the legislator - I think it was Rocco at the time - in Article 589 of the Criminal Code refers to whoever causes the death of a man. Then there are the aggravating circumstances, with special effect, there are the conditions subject to balance and those not subject to balance. Therefore, in order to cut off the bull's head, we have foreseen a new crime figure, inserting Article 589-a, which we are going to fill today and at this point I rightly say. If perhaps the attitude of then is critiqueable, at least today we are going to put on a piece of cloth compared to a hypothesis that had not been considered. Then the legislator decided not to intervene because he did not know how to deal with the issue, while today the issue was dealt with well. Also in the interventions that preceded me have been remembered articles 2 and 3 of the bill, the intervention in relation to the road murder, the profile of the injuries or the non-obligability of the arrest regarding those who maintain a cooperative attitude. Having exhausted my time, I declare the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u128	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, boating is one of the sectors in which our country is world-class. We produce boats, boats and ships of excellence, but we are also one of the countries that most enjoy the benefits of boating and not only. Let's think about the activities of sport fishing, snorkeling, diving, diving, apnea, pleasure boating, of which I have spoken before, but let's also think about the simple swim that in our almost 9,000 kilometers of coast is always a pleasure to do, both in the marine waters, and in the inland waters of our lakes and our rivers. We are convinced that this law will help to ensure security for this type of activity. We are convinced that these rules will increase security in one of the main assets of the country. There are stretches of sea, coast, even lakes and rivers, splendid, which however are heavily trafficked and which become - alas - dangerous. We have heard the examples that have been made, but I believe that each of us has happened at least once in our lives to have a swim and to see a jet ski run very close, a dinghy launched at high speed and anything else. We must ensure safety, including navigation. It is true, however, what Senator Dal Mas said, and I agree with that. We can't get into panpenalistic thinking. It is only with this rule, which goes to increase the penalties for anyone committing the crime of manslaughter nautical homicide or manslaughter nautical injuries, we have solved the problem. It is not the magic wand, and I believe that Parliament should take this opportunity to go further into other rules which, beyond the criminal dictation, help to increase the safety of all those wonderful activities related to the water of the sea, the water of our rivers and our lakes. We are convinced that from this greater safety of the navigation, but also of the enjoyment of our waters, will derive a great advantage also for all the sporting enterprises that live of such activity, that they live of tourism, that they live of fishing, that they live of sporting activities tied to navigation. Another very important principle, which we have reiterated in this regulation and I am convinced that it is important to return to this House, is that we do not drive drunk, that we do not drive in a state of intoxication or stupefaction. Under the effect of psychotropic substances, no vehicle is to be driven. The life, safety and safety of other people and of our person must not be put at risk and this rule reiterates it further. Just today in the Childhood Commission, we approved the outcome of a survey of young people's addictions. Unfortunately, all we have done is to see how there is an increase in addiction to drugs, psychotropic substances, alcohol. This standard gives a clear signal, even to young people who might want to take a ride with the jet ski. They must know, however, that they are not driving vehicles that have been altered by alcohol and drugs, because this is a risk to their own health and to other people's health. As a League Group, we will vote for this rule with conviction. I would like to thank, as has already been done, Senator Balboni, who presented this proposal, adopted by all political forces in the Justice Commission. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, Mr Ostellari and Mr Sisto, who has done so much to get this rule to the House. There are two aspects that I would like to explain to my fellow Members before concluding. A first aspect, which is important to stress, is that we took the opportunity to set up two rules of the penal code relating to road traffic which posed serious problems in courtrooms. Anyone who has the honour of carrying out the legal profession knows that the reform of road murder and road injuries had two significant limitations: a first limit was given by the processability of office of all crimes. Those who practice the forensic profession know what we are talking about: paradoxically, this became a limit. At a time when, in the face of even minor injuries, the criminal proceedings were still open to legal proceedings, the offending person was found to have one less weapon in the bargaining with the insurance to obtain a reasonable, adequate and short-term compensation. Returning to the person offended the weapon of the possibility of returning the complaint becomes useful in order to allow the same, that is to say those who have suffered injuries, illness, because of the accident because of others' fault, to have an additional instrument to obtain the right compensation. This is a first rule that we have settled. There is a second rule that has been drawn up and that, in my opinion, it is important that it has been revised by Parliament: the one relating to the arrest in flagrante. He was conflicting with every common sense rule to provide for the arrest in flagrante for the one who, by guilt, certainly not by malice, had caused - of course against his will - a car accident and had stopped to ensure immediate help to the victim. It is against any logic that that person, who has certainly committed a crime and will therefore be judged, is dragged away in handcuffs after she has stopped to assist the victim and ensure the immediate arrival of the rescue. It is clearly against all common sense, besides the fact that that prediction paradoxically favored escape because, rather than being arrested, at that point someone had the unhealthy temptation to flee, to get away. If this rule is also approved by the House - and we are convinced that this will happen - finally the person who caused the sinister, as it is, will not be arrested in flagency if, however, he stops to provide assistance, to call the rescue, will wait for their arrival and will give the necessary help to the offended person. This is clearly an incentive to put an end to the terrible phenomenon of road accidents with the escape of the one who caused them. I therefore believe that this is a very common sense rule, which goes to heal a vulnus. I'll stop here, ma'am. I can only hope that the House of Deputies will have time to finally approve this draft law in this part-session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u131	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, partly because the speeches made by my fellow Members have all entered into the substance of the measure. As has been said several times in the debate, I would like to highlight the purpose of the bill in particular, namely the substantial equivalence of legislation on murder and road injuries in the nautical field. The text is therefore intended to fill the vulnus, detected by all after, in fact, the crime of street murder had been approved. This evidence often recurs during the summer period, when obviously the flow of the boats is greater, but also in other periods when, for example, there are obvious situations of danger for the ships, as happened in Lake Como, Lake Maggiore and so on. Therefore, the requirement underlying the bill is clear to all: to provide an ad hoc criminal case for murderous crimes and injuries by means of a recreational unit. Recreational craft means all the means that go above the water sphere in the lakes, the seas, the rivers, therefore also the new technologies: water motorcycles and anything else can be equipped with a motor or oars. A wide range of types of means are therefore covered. The sanctioning response to the protected legal good is precisely the physical integrity, which was unreasonablely compromised in the case of events that occurred precisely in circumstances that refer to the navigation code; therefore, there was a difference of treatment between road users and terracquei users. It was therefore unreasonable from the point of view of proportionality, but also of the sanction envisaged, because of course there were different provisions depending on whether the fact was put in place by means of a vehicle rather than a boat, therefore in cases of almost identical conducts it was a different sanction. I have to say that a choral work has been carried out in the Commission, so much so that we have also reached the creation of a small committee, which I naturally thank together with the rapporteur, who has done a summary job in order to achieve this text, and then voted unanimously. I would also like to add that I am pleased that many of the amendments tabled by my Group, the Movimento 5 Stars, have become an integral part of the text itself, such as the ad hoc criminal case, or the fact that it is committed in a state of alcoholic or psychophysical alteration resulting from the use of narcotic substances, the possibility of prosecution in cases of injury to road traffic, the inclusion of the case in the catalog of crimes for which compulsory arrest is provided in flagrant, as well as the transitional rule. These are all issues dealt with in the amendments tabled by my Group, which have been an integral part of the text we are debating today. It is certainly right and deserving of attention to intervene from a regulatory point of view on this issue, also to give a strong signal that a further deterrent is created that invites to prudence anyone who gets to drive not only a car, but also a boat. For these reasons, I voted in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u133	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u134	[[Comments.]] Colleagues, we have proceeded quickly and we have exhausted our interventions even before the time allowed. DE FALCO (Mixed). Thank you, Mr President, I would also like to thank all my colleagues, because they are very nice. I shall vote against this measure mainly for a number of reasons, and I would like to be allowed to express and declare it. Firstly, it is once again part of a parcelling legislative technique in which, instead of creating the right aggravating the crime case, new crime figures are always created, and this, as can be seen from the drafting of the article, creates a considerable difficulty. This provision is badly written; in particular Article 3, of which I would like to read a line, in my opinion it is also unconstitutional, because it creates a real reformation in peius, allowing the facts committed before the entry into force of this rule to be the subject of a complaint from the date of entry into force of this rule. It should be borne in mind that, today, in particular, maritime - or nautical - events are in fact punishable by a complaint, so that it cannot be considered that a procedure of office is replaced by a procedure of complaint and therefore the facts are recovered, but in reality the term is given today to begin to sue for previous facts and this is unconstitutional. But I would also like to say something else. If you really care about safety, then you have the administrations that have to check personnel and means, because the only way to ensure safety at sea is to make continuous checks, show presence, prevent undisciplined dangerous behavior. The only way of doing prevention is through control; not through rules that remain on paper and then in this case they also create legal problems. If you really want to avoid making paperwork and want to make security, the government will make arrangements to ensure that controls are effective and effective; you will not control only NGOs; you will control recreational boats, you will control traffic: this must be done. You have to be serious. These standards are paper and serve to put your conscience in order, but they do not allow you to achieve a higher standard of safety.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u135	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u136	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 1201, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pisani Giuseppe, asked for authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u137	Mr President, the draft law before us, which was adopted at first reading in the House of Deputies and subsequently amended by the 12th The Senate commission in the drafting session deals with the issue of transparency and the right to knowledge of the relationships of economic importance or advantage between companies producing medicines, tools, equipment, goods and services even non-healthy, and those operating in the field of health. Article 1 provides that the provisions in question determine the essential level of benefits relating to the right to knowledge of the relationship between undertakings and entities operating in the field of health. In this regard, Article 117 (2) (m) of the Constitution, which confers on the exclusive legislative competence of the State the determination of the essential levels of benefits, is referred to. Article 2 sets out the concepts and specifies the terms, i.e. the meaning of a producer, of persons working in the health sector and of health organisations. Article 3 provides for a compulsory system of advertising: for conventions and disbursements of money, goods, services or other utility carried out by a manufacturer in favour of a person active in the health sector; for conventions and disbursements of money, goods, services, carried out by a producer undertaking in favour of a health organisation; for agreements of producing undertakings with entities operating in the health sector, which produce direct or indirect advantages consisting of participation in conferences, training events, committees, committees, advisory bodies and other matters. Advertising shall bear the data relating to the time period, the nature, the cause of the agreement, the agreement or the distribution and the economic values thereof and shall be carried out by the manufacturer by means of the communication of the data to the public electronic register established pursuant to Article 5 below. [[Brusio]] Mr President, I apologize. I am trying to cover with my voice the buzz I have behind me.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u138	You're right, Senator Pisani. Colleagues, there are many of us in this House, and this suggests that we significantly lower the volume of the voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u139	Mr PISANI Giuseppe, rapporteur. Mr President, Article 4 requires an annual communication to the public electronic register by the manufacturers if one or more health professionals or one or more health organisations are subject to one or more of the following conditions: they hold shares or shares in the company's capital or bonds issued by the company or have received from the company, in the previous year, fees for the granting of licences for the economic use of industrial or intellectual property rights. Article 5 provides for the establishment, on the institutional website of the Ministry of Health, of a public electronic register called "Transparent Health," which is freely accessible for consultation. The establishment of the register must take place within six months of the entry into force of these rules. The institution is preceded by a decree issued by the Minister of Health, after hearing the Agency for Digital Italy, the National Anti-corruption Authority and the Data Protection Supervisor. The determinations of the ministerial decree must be based on: ease of access, simplicity of consultation, understanding of data and homogeneity of their presentation, prediction of functions for simple and advanced research and for the extraction of communications according to the standards of open data. Paragraph 9 of Article 5 provides for the quantification of the financial burden arising from this Article. Article 6, paragraph 1, specifies that the manufacturers are responsible for the truthfulness of the data contained in the communications. The next paragraph 2 stipulates to the producer undertaking that fails to carry out the telematic communication the pecuniary administrative penalty of payment of a sum of 1.000 euros for each omitted communication, increased by twenty times the amount of any payment to which the omission refers. Paragraph 3 of the same Article 6 provides, for the producer undertaking that fails to transmit the communications referred to in Article 4, paragraphs 1 and 3, within the period indicated therein, a financial administrative penalty from 5,000 to 50,000 euros. Pursuant to the following paragraph 5, the manufacturer providing false information in the communications shall apply the financial administrative penalty for the payment of a sum from 5,000 to 100,000 euros. The acts of imposition of sanctions shall be published in a dedicated section of the public electronic register. The Ministry of Health shall publish in open format such acts on the front page of its institutional website, for a period of not less than 90 days, with the indication of the names of the manufacturers who have not communicated the necessary communications or who have provided false information in the communications. Paragraph 9 specifies that it is allowed to report to the Ministry of Health of the conducts put in place in violation of the present discipline. According to paragraph 10, the financial administration and the Finance Guard Corps shall verify the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in this discipline. Paragraph 12 provides that the revenue deriving from the collection of the penalties referred to in this Article 6 shall flow at the entry of the State budget; 50% of these resources shall be allocated, in the reference year, to the improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the supervisory activities carried out pursuant to paragraph 8. Article 7 provides that the Minister of Health shall transmit to the Chambers, by 31 December of each year, a report on the state of implementation of the provisions of this Framework. Article 8 lays down clauses on the invariance of public finance charges. Article 9 lays down the transitional rules, which specify that the reporting requirements laid down in Article 3 shall apply from the second half of the year following that in progress on the date of publication of the notice provided for in Article 5 (1) and that the reporting requirements laid down in Article 4 shall apply from the second year following that in progress on the date of publication of that notice. Finally, Madam President, allow me to express my sincere thanks to the staff of the Senate services, which always puts us in a position to work best, to all the Members of the House, to the colleagues of the 12th The Commission and all those who have cooperated in drafting this measure, which has always been strongly desired and supported by our political strength. The draft law before us is another very important step forward in the process of maximum public administration transparency towards us citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u140	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u143	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, the unanimous vote - or almost - of the articles bears witness to the will of the Senate to approve the measure in question, which contains three important concepts, closely linked to each other: the right to knowledge, transparent health and the public electronic register. The draft law which, as the rapporteur mentioned, was approved at first reading in the Chamber and subsequently, with some amendments to the 12th Commission, in the Senate in the drafting session, concerns the transparency and the right of knowledge of the relationships of economic importance between the producing companies and the entities operating in the field of health. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 states a fundamental concept. We know that health protection is a matter which, according to our Constitution, falls within the sphere of shared legislative competence between the State and the Regions, which is responsible for determining the essential level of benefits relating to the right to knowledge of the relationships between companies and entities operating in the field of health. The right to knowledge therefore becomes an essential level of performance and is a very important concept. In this regard, Article 117 (2) (m) of our Constitution, which confers on the exclusive legislative competence of the State the determination of the essential levels of benefits which must be guaranteed throughout the national territory, is recalled. It will then be established on the website of the Ministry of Health of a public electronic register. Why do I think that these concepts are fundamental and open up or strengthen the way for us national legislators too to live up to the Constitution and, at the same time, to guarantee the constitutionally enshrined right to health in Article 32, and to legislate even more strongly on essential levels of assistance (LEA) and essential levels of performance (LEP)? I am thinking of the subject of territorial medicine - the Undersecretary is present here - and of the effort that the Ministry is making to consider the essential levels of assistance and services in territorial medicine. The measure strengthens the guarantee of the right to health and to the knowledge of citizens throughout the national territory. Transparency is also necessary after so much suffering of citizenship, especially during the epidemic and now that we are starting to get out of it. Of course, the sanctioning part of the measure is also necessary, but let us remember that we do not start from scratch in terms of transparency and compliance, because the same bill recalls the code of conduct of civil servants, already existing. I believe that the right to knowledge is fundamental and therefore, here too, we must move forward, following the epidemic, on this concept by drawing up a legislative framework. I am thinking, for example, of transparency and the need to make data available (I do not mean, of course, the data of individual citizens who, as we know, are covered by privacy). I also think of the effort being made to implement the electronic health issue, although it has not always been the case during the epidemic. It would have been necessary to make transparent data available to research centres and citizens not only so that citizens could understand what was happening, but also so that research centres, even autonomous ones, could intervene on the epidemiological situation. (17.30) (Next PARENT). We know that the important gold of our time is the data, whose provision is the highest form of democracy a country can have. As Italy Viva we will vote in favour of the important measure in our examination, with the hope that the concepts contained in it offer the possibility to increase our legislation also in other fields in order to guarantee the right to knowledge, transparency and access to sites to the whole citizenship.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u146	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this measure when we examine it. Sometimes it happens that colleagues put forward the vote in favour, for example by adding convincingly. We can say that we will vote for the measure serenely, in the sense that although it represents the first step of a path, certainly necessary and, indeed, absolutely essential, we do not consider it an exhaustive measure or in any case able to counter the problem of corruption in health transactions in itself. Money inside health care is a lot, a lot. On average, the regions allocate between 70% and 80% of their budget to health. Having passed on health or a large part of the health sector to them was certainly a positive measure because it differentiated the risk and divided it. Leaving the enormous mass of money in health care to a single subject evidently, as the history of the first Republic taught us, was a huge problem; by dividing it on all the regions we at least divided the mountain at risk of corruption of capital destined for health. In order to give colleagues an idea of what we are talking about, I would like to point out that in 2020 the data on corruption reported by the main national newspapers showed the health sector in second place. That is to say that about 17.33 percent of the corruption reported by the Italian media occurred in the health sector. This is about 117 cases. It is evident that the figure is approximated by default, as it is the cases of corruption that have come to know and thus discovered. Compared to this figure, it is the submerged one that worries us. Corruption in health care is as widespread as it is more dangerous because it harms the citizen as well as the state's coffers. It damages it by leading to poor treatment, endless waiting lists, doctors who use devices chosen not for their quality, but for the profit they can make, more or less legitimately, more or less transparently. We also think of the welfare paths even influenced by the possible economic gain. Colleagues, it is useless to deny that the public dimension of health certainly does not protect you, for example, from the incursions of big pharmas or, in any case, suppliers of drugs, devices, computer aids and programs. A whole world that clings to the national health system and draws life from it. The Covid did not simplify the theme, indeed if possible it got worse because it increased the lifeblood and the destinations of money to health care, widening the field to possible incursions and corruptions. A group of researchers, committed to facilitating access to data to improve transparency in health care, estimated that in the three years 2017-2019 the funding allocated in a transparent way by the main pharmaceutical companies amounted to about one billion euros; all this in the form of donations, refreshment of travel expenses, compensation for advice, organization of events, hospital garrisons and research centers. This enormous amount of money, I repeat, is transparent and is also clearly inferior to reality as it is certainly approximated by default, gives the idea of how much it is necessary to make as transparent as possible what happens in the relationships involving financial disbursements in health care. The text of the measure before us, which has some shadows, but which is generally in favour of us, so much so that we, as I said, will peacefully vote for its approval, given certain rules of knowledge, assuming that what is transparent is in itself legitimate. All right, since we have done so in many other areas, such as, for example, with political foundations, with banking relations, with the famous transparency in financial transactions. Precisely because there are these precedents, we have seen, however, that the mere fact of the knowledge and publication on a website or on a Facebook page of transactions that pertain to financial movements in health care does not in itself lead to a solution. What we are doing with this measure is an important first step. There was a gap and it was appropriate to fill it, but now it is clear that further system reforms are needed, because unfortunately there is no other way to force operators in the sector to have a substantial - not by chance - correct use of this adjective. The only way that we are given is to eliminate the laces and laces, so defined by someone before me, of the rules of the market, that is, making the transactions available to everyone as much as possible, therefore widening the lists of the suppliers, with thousand other possible measures, leaving to the market the possibility to self-regulate on the basis of the famous law of the supply and demand that in the end, in my opinion, is the only real form to guarantee transparency. It is clear that, by participating in a system of transparent competitions and supplies, the more the audience of the actors widens, the more the same control each other. I repeat, with this bill we do not solve the problem. We have done well to deal with it and we have been absolutely in agreement and in favour, but much and much more clearly there is to be done. Think of everything that has happened with vaccines; think of how much we are puzzled and forbidden the story of the famous ten vaccines purchased for every European citizen, according to what has been published on the European Union website, even if, at the direct request of the official in charge of these transactions, I have not received an answer. Think about what's still to be done. With this measure we have dealt with a little bit of the problem, but it must obviously be further developed; it must be expanded a culture that basically says that the money it serves for public health is doubly valuable and that those who take it fraudulently and illegitimately commit a double and triple crime compared to a general rule that makes - or should render - this money truly sacred and untouchable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u149	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are approving a text from 2019, when it was approved by the House. I say this because, in the meantime, the pandemic has arrived in the world and everything has happened. I must say, however, that, despite everything, it seems to me that, even from the point of view of consequentiality, this law will come to fruition at the right time, since it will have to have the last alignment with the House, because some amendments submitted by the Budget Committee will see another small transition to the House. We are, however, at the right point, because this law concerns the transparency of relations between manufacturers, health professionals and health organisations, that is to say, guarantees the right to know those relationships of economic importance or advantage between them interrupted. Hence relationships between those who supply drugs, tools, equipment, goods and services, including non-health care, and those who work in the health sector including health organisations. I really believe that everyone's mind is running straight to what is happening with the big investments being made in health care. All of us, then, have the mind that runs to the PNRR and to all the projects that are taking place. This proposal has been well examined in the House of Deputies, because it is true that it arrived in 2019, but it has had its germination in the past and has been worked very thoroughly. I, too, at this point, gladly have the obligation to acknowledge to my colleagues in the House, in the PD Group, that I have worked to improve the text effectively, with documents, evaluation and amendments, producing a text that is certainly improved and in a position to be judged positively by our Group, which, in fact, as it has voted in favour of the House, has done so in our Commission in the Senate. Therefore, since the first time the text arrived at the Commission, we all recognised that it had to be accepted. I must say that this bill is explicitly inspired by the American sunshine act and in fact, among us, in the corridors, we call it sunshine act. This is because it speaks of transparency, but it has a US derivation and other laws that have been enacted in recent years in several European states. It was a kind of regulatory vacuum for us, because, in fact, we are talking explicitly about health. We already had other laws, such as No 241 of 1990: those who do not know it. Furthermore, the so-called transparency decree on the relationship between citizens and public administration. So, we already had rules. But this bill comes to fill a regulatory vacuum with regard to precisely the close relations between organizations and people working in health care and manufacturing companies. Also on this, however, we do not come from the year zero, because I remember very well that the National Anti-corruption Authority in 2014 had already launched an anti-corruption plan in 2015-2016, which provided for the first time, and I emphasize it, a section dedicated to healthcare purchases. Section that was precisely prodromic to the foundations of this law, then came to definition with this norm. The start of anti-corruption activity, with the national plans of 2015 and 2016, has substantially also produced political, cultural and institutional effects, which the majority shared, with unanimous votes, and which allows today to approve this rule. Time was ripe, of course, but it is also a systemic norm. In this way the sense of a story that an international scenario was already writing has been grasped. The main cause of the uphill corruption phenomenon lies precisely in the poor functioning and lack of transparency of the administrative and technical machinery to support treatment. The application of this law may at least partially contribute to reducing the risks associated with poor management and perhaps defuse administrative improvisation, because sometimes that also happens: the opacity of the processes and the indifference of those who, with their silence, sometimes accompany the illicit paths, very often because they lack protection. That is also to be said. Therefore, the fight against corruption is common to several rules; we also had to approve the anti-fraud decree in relation to the bonus facades. Every now and then we have to follow with these rules a wrong interpretation in sharing paths with the State, and it is the civic sense that unfortunately is lacking both in our citizens and in those who play important roles in the public administration. Therefore, combating the hateful practice of corruption is necessary and must continue to be one of the main objectives of the actions of all governments and of Parliament. For this reason, I believe it is absolutely necessary to offer our full cooperation and willingness to improve this way of doing things, and that is what will be done with this law. It is important for us to put the emphasis on health care. As I said, important measures are coming; you have seen the funds that have been made available. The monitoring systems set up by the steering booths set up by our Government help us very much in this. I am thinking also and above all of the State-Regions Conference where important agreements have been reached for programming in close contact with the private sector. Everything that we are going to put into practice with the funds made available by the PNRR, following precise agreements, will go through agreements with the private sector as well. I believe that at the moment we have an additional rule - I remember that there were already rules in this regard - which further intervenes to combat corruption is important, indeed crucial. The Democratic Party, as I said, has worked well with the House; I have done so since the incardination of the text in the Health Commission. Then, unfortunately, I repeat that for two years we have had more to think about with the emergency and its decree-laws, but now it is right to bring to fulfilment norms that are necessary at this particular moment. That is why, President, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u152	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our vote is in favour of this measure: an important text which, however, is a first step in relation to the transparency of a relationship between the market and health which is very complex and cannot be resolved solely and exclusively with this type of legislative intervention. I agree with what several colleagues and colleagues have said; I just want to give a few examples. If Europe's vaccine contract with large pharmaceutical companies is not pubblicable or knowable, we have a problem. If, again, the legislation on medical devices - I am not referring to personal protective equipment, but to other medical devices, for example in relation to hip transplantation and so on - does not have quality assessment criteria, because in this country we do not yet have a standard of quality criteria on medical devices (for me this is a very serious vulnus because we are talking about medical devices ranging from heart valve to hip implants and everything else) is a problem. It is a problem that is resolved by urgent regulatory action and this requires political determination, because we all understand that lobbying is going in the opposite direction. It is a problem that is not simply solved by transparency, by publishing activities, because it will present itself in increasingly strategic and economically relevant forms compared to all innovative drugs that will define the possibility of living or not of the years more, of solving or not diseases considered incurable to date and that will be curable, but at absolutely unapproachable costs, if we do not change the relationship between big pharma and public systems, at European level, at least. If we do not simply want to save conscience, this law is a stimulus to finally face this discussion in the light of the sun, because it is right what Senator Zaffini said: one thing is the cleaning of ASLs and hospitals, because in that case the wider the offer, the more you can compete on the market; another thing are those performances that are not on the market, in fact, but that improperly follow distorted market logics, because if we have the medicine available to cure hepatitis B or hepatitis C and we have paid it exactly 36 times more than what other states have paid for it, this is a problem that is not solved by widening the offer. This law is absolutely positive, but we should have learned something from the Covid emergency - at least I hope so, because it seems to me that compared to the debate of the initial phase of the Covid emergency already a lot of water has passed under the bridges - and I am concerned about it. We must therefore redefine the public health function, reaffirm that it is not possible to put health on the market; we must be consistent and finally make a process of real health reform, which is absolutely essential. This reform process cannot, in my view, be postponed any longer. The challenge - be careful - is not simply the Covid and it is not just winning the battle of waiting lists, although it is a more than significant theme today, after the Covid and with the postponement of all planned health benefits. The theme is to build a new plant, otherwise public resources will never be sufficient. It is a market that must absolutely be regulated upstream, if we want to look ahead and have public health as a fundamental beacon of the right to citizenship in this country. I see that from this point of view we are still too fragile and weak; in order to be able to say that pharmaceutical companies have to pay the payback, which is now worth 2.4 billion in this country, we really have to insist - let me say so - and this is a problem. I tell the government, the majority, the opposition, all of us. Do we want to make a qualitative leap into health care? There is a need for reform and perhaps it is time to discuss it seriously in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u155	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are touching on a crucial issue, which we have all lived on our skin in these two and a half years, which have opened windows of extreme generosity in putting our lives in the service of others - we saw it last Sunday, on the day of white shirts - but which have also revealed to us the horizons of such miserable corruption, made on the skin of people, which has deeply scandalized us all. I believe that as long as we retain the capacity to scandalize ourselves, which is then the ability to indignant ourselves before that exploitation of human life reduced to market good, perhaps we still have a great and strong hope ahead of us. The draft law under consideration has a great merit: it is one of the few draft laws of parliamentary initiative that actually traveled on the double track. It could pass to history, because it was a parliamentary initiative of the House's colleagues, it arrived at the Senate, where we had the courage to modify it, and today we will approve it in the modified version, because we had the deep conviction that by sending it back to the House it would be approved in a short time. This means a mature parliamentary style of work, but unfortunately in this legislature it is an almost exceptional operation, and it must be acknowledged that the Health Commissions of their respective Chambers have worked with deep respect for the dignity of their role as parliamentarians. Having said that, I would like to point out that, in the end, the track on which this bill is built is very simple to say and very difficult then to translate into practice, as I will try to prove. The first point on this track is the right of the citizen - I do not even say the right of the patient, attention - to know. The second point is the obligation of the company to inform correctly of all those destinations of goods that in some way are not the subject of a linear, regular, transparent transaction. Why is this important? When, many years ago, I was a young doctor, the easiest forms of corruption, the most identifiable, were those for which the pharmaceutical company somehow did and facilitated what we called congress tourism: it offered a person to go with the idea of presenting documentation or simply to attend a convention at a conference. This was done by trying to emphasize the formation of the youngest, to put them in contact with international contexts, and we moved little more than in this dynamic. Then we discovered that these forms, instead of seeing in the doctor the guarantor of the loyalty of the relationship between a company that produces drugs and its natural destination to the patient, included improper costs, which were the costs of own congressional tourism. But we soon realized that this form is still present now and then; and I call it a form of corruption, when this is a sort of exchange, because it is not that the paid trip or the assigned benefit took place without asking for anything in return. Now we often use the formula that says that this has happened beyond any improper request; it is a formula that we find many times in all the donations (it has been organized with the totally free contribution). But we all know that totally free is a word that is a little difficult to say. All these were the small forms of the daily newspaper of a corruption that matured behind small goods of exchange. But then we realized that, where this type of corruption really reached much higher figures and amounts, it concerned, for example, the restructuring of a hospital or the updating of the technology park. We know how fast technology now continuously produces new tools and how these new tools can have very high costs, which can be offered on seemingly advantageous conditions, sometimes really advantageous (but more often seemingly advantageous), behind a secondary asset that the company that produces these tools requires (no longer necessarily the pharmaceutical company). I remember a few years ago - some of you may still remember - the famous heart valve scandal. Low-profile and low-cost valves were being taken, which inevitably did not guarantee the expected clinical outcome, because they profited from the difference in costs. Well, let's say the level of corruption grows. Mr Errani has just mentioned the lack of transparency or at least the lack of knowledge of the contracts that have been concluded, for example, in relation to vaccines; a crazy dimension, if we think only of how many vaccines have been administered. We have 91 percent of the population that received at least three vaccines; so we only think in Italy, but we also think in the whole world. We realize that there can grow by much the level between the offered good, the paid good and the profited value. I also think, in the small one, of something that has happened in recent months compared to swabs. You know that the mechanism that we ourselves have wanted, as an important mechanism for ensuring people's health, that is, the control of swabs day by day (with television telling us how many swabs have been made), has represented in great part a cost to families (and therefore we also know the difficulty). But the worst thing was the distorted information trade compared to the result of these vaccines. So, what am I gonna do with this? I want to get to something that is very simple, just as the premise was simple at the beginning: the right to knowledge and the obligation to transparency. We need to rediscover an ethical dimension, which is not only medical ethics, that is, the obligation to guarantee the patient the best possible service, but it is an ethics that very often is drug-ethic and that very often touches the theme of the relationship between ethics and economy. If we do not realize the level of economic interests, even from this point of view there is the risk of having gained on the skin of people with the ill-intentioned idea of gaining gain for themselves and this also has its implication, in the sense that very often we have profited on a sloppy product purchased without being up to the situation. Sometimes the object of corruption comes from offering a product of less quality, sometimes even of bad quality, to a person who expected to receive something that would benefit his health. It is an ethical dimension that must be rediscovered throughout the chain, which can be the subject of a kind of hemorrhage and loss of the ethical dimension of the transaction. The measure makes it step by step, starting with the simplest thing, talking about amounts of EUR 100 (and today we know how few EUR 100 can be, unless we multiply them for all functions); but initially we spoke of even EUR 10. It is not just this; we have to go through the whole chain of potential corruption to graft that revolution that really starts from respect for the person and for the most fragile people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u158	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration was adopted at first reading by the House, as has already been mentioned by my colleagues, and it has now been improved with the passage to the Senate on precisely those aspects that could raise some critical issues. We are talking about a very important issue, health transparency. The draft law contains the transparency and the right to knowledge of the relationships of economic importance or advantage between companies producing medicines, tools, equipment, goods and services, including non-health products and entities operating in the field of health, including health organisations. In recent years the principle of transparency has been deepened and analysed from many points of view. In our party we are truly convinced that transparency is important and useful if it allows all citizens to know, to understand the use of public resources, to value their purposes, the costs in relation to performance, stimulating the appropriateness and the comparison between providers and territories, encouraging the search for excellence, identifying the responsibilities and the roles of every public and non-profit institutional subject. The need for transparency could, on more than one occasion, clash with the right to data protection, but in this respect there are many rules and provisions that intervene precisely in the fight against corruption and conflict of interest. However, a transparency rule must never be confused with a punitive rule. That is not the point of the measure before the House today, although we are aware that there are unclear situations, which can sometimes also lead to corruption. Measures such as this are aimed at strengthening the relationship of loyalty with citizens. Accessibility to data and documents is also intended to protect citizens' rights, to promote the participation of those concerned in administrative activity and to promote widespread forms of control over the pursuit of institutional functions and the use of public resources. There are many measures that go in this direction: from the code of conduct of civil servants to the anti-corruption plan, from the introduction of the pact of integrity between public ministers and companies participating in the tenders in Article 13 of the draft competition law in these days to the examination of the competent committees of the Senate. With regard to Article 13 of the draft competition law, which will have to arrive in the Chamber, the aim of the PNRR is, with regard to the provision of services at regional level in the health field, to introduce more transparent modalities and criteria in the accreditation system, in order to facilitate periodic verifications and reviews of the same on the qualitative results actually achieved by the operators. These are all measures aimed at a timely tracking of resources in order to avoid possible conflicts of interest and to ensure that resources are allocated effectively. In detail, the provision transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies has been amended by providing for an increase in the amounts for which advertising is required. It is therefore necessary to publish, for each individual operator, the utilities that have a unit value of more than 100 euros per single donation, for a total annual total of more than 1,000 euros. For each health organization, on the other hand, special advertising of payments or utilities with a unit value of more than 1,000 euros and up to 2,500 euros will have to be given. In addition to this, the changes introduced also provide for the publicity of any conventions. For the rest, the measure has remained essentially the one already approved by the colleagues of the House. Surely the establishment of the public electronic register will play a fundamental role in the tracing of data and we therefore hope that the measure will really enter into force within six months of publication in the Official Journal, which will take place after the subsequent passage of the measures to the Chamber of Deputies. For all these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of the measure of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u161	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to vote on contains provisions on the transparency of relations between manufacturers and those who operate in any capacity on the planet's health, on the one hand, and the various health organizations and companies and institutions for hospitalization and care, on the other. We are talking about a measure that is due to the citizens, even more so in this particular period of the pandemic, in which these relations are even more frequent and close. A magnifying glass is then needed to focus and clarify administrative procedures and procedures for the supply of materials, equipment and medicines by manufacturers or private individuals to public health companies or private facilities. This magnifying glass is contained in the measure under consideration. Sunshine act: acts in sunlight. This expression simply and concisely represents this measure and the need from which it arises. The term itself, in fact, contains the deep meaning of the provision and its purposes: transparency, traceability and concrete opportunity to prevent and combat possible phenomena of corruption and degradation, the result of obscurantistic drift in administrative action in health care. It is a citizens' right to know in real time and in a clear way the relationships of economic importance between companies producing drugs, scientific tools and equipment, health goods and services and not only those operating on the planet health. The latter, for their role, should protect the health of citizens in all ways and maintain linear, correct and balanced behaviour in their actions and decisions. The transparency of health relations, as in all other areas of public life, is an essential condition for a radical change in the better management of public health. It is an indispensable objective to prove at last, but above all to be able to regain the confidence of the citizens, awakening respect in the institutions and the feeling of living in a community capable of protecting the rule of law of the individual and of the most fragile people. The wish of all is that this turning point creates the optimal conditions for everyone to feel encouraged and, dare I say, almost obliged to carry out behaviours and actions respectful of others, morally and ethically irreproachable and, finally, in the depths of his soul and his mature mind the awareness that the State is there, is present, even by activating administrative and judicial mechanisms and safeguards to safeguard the honesty, legality and transparency of the many honest citizens in front of the few authors of fraudulent acts, which make a misleading and distorted use of the power and privileged position occupied. A status often obtained not for professionalism or competence, but simply for belonging to political wheelchairs, which can favor clientele choices or personal interests. All the persons who are responsible for the assignment have responsibility for the management of resources or decide on drugs and technological devices, in the programming of research and experimentation, the same members of the jury for the purchase of goods and services in the health sector, and the list may not stop here, in summary all those operating on the health planet have a great moral and civil responsibility towards the community. All payments of money, agreements and agreements between the producer companies and the parties referred to above must be made public and transparent. On the institutional website of the Ministry of Health with the provision for our examination there is a public electronic register, called "Transparent Health", freely and quickly accessible and accessible by all. On the site will be reported the entities involved and the producing companies, the latter responsible for the truthfulness of the data contained. The 5 Star Movement has always fought for transparency, legality and respect for the roles of decision-making and institutional roles, reaffirming that those who are called to cover them have the honour and the burden of representing and respecting citizens. [[Applause]] Transparency - so flagshipd by so many and in many parts, many times out of place - must be in real reality, palpable and verifiable at all levels and at any time. This measure can become a tangible demonstration of this. Transparency must always distinguish the work of both the political class and the ruling class and the administrators; only in this way can people's trust in the institutions be reborn and fostered. The Movimento 5 Stars has always publicly denounced distortions, shortcomings and abuses of power by those under the table, in ambiguous or more or less obvious way, does not fulfill its role and uses the occupied position to favor lobbying, friends of friends or simply his personal interests. This regulatory intervention, promoted and strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, in short aligns Italy with other important countries such as France and the United States, while at the same time putting it at the forefront of transparency, the contrast to conflicts of interest and the prevention of corruption in health. [[Applause]] More transparency is equivalent to greater availability of resources for the right to health of Italians. This measure, Mr President - and I am going to conclude - is only a first step, but it serves to clarify and to give citizens the awareness that public money, in our case precisely in the field of health, is spent in compliance with the law. This is the path to follow, the road indicated by the Movimento 5 Stars, so ours can only be a vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u162	I would like to point out that the draft law, as a whole, has been voted by a simultaneous vote in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u163	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-407.ana.u164	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 24 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.22.
