ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u4	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u5	Mr President, distinguished senators and senators, allow me to introduce this report on the administration of justice by reading the words of a letter from among the many addressed to the Minister of Justice. It was March 8th and I was newly established. I am writing to you this public letter to ask for your comfort, grieved by the death at the work of my son Roberto - which had happened four years earlier - and the impossibility of seeing the trial celebrated in a reasonable time. I'm 75 years old and I'm a widow. Roberto, the youngest of my children, was my support in everything. She was 32 years old and lived with me. Our process cannot be celebrated, although it is one of the so-called priority processes. The court is not able to have multiple-party trials carried out safely, due to the lack of equipped classrooms, due to lack of resources and staff. For this reason, in a year and a half since the debate began, due to repeated referrals, only one of about 20 witnesses has been heard. At this rate, the first-degree process will last several years. I'm sure I'll die before I see the end of this trial, without knowing how and by whom my son was killed. I write to her as a mother, widow, humble citizen, to ask for her comfort and, within the limits of her possibilities and competences, to deepen the disastrous reality of that court. Before I die, I wish I could go to my son Roberto's grave to tell him that earthly justice took its course. The story of this elderly mother is not isolated. It is a paradigmatic story and gives voice to so many citizens. It is for each of them that the action of the Ministry of Justice has been directed, with determination, towards an objective that I have considered crucial: to bring back the times of justice to the limits of reasonableness, as the Constitution demands, as the European principles demand. The principle of the reasonable duration of the trial and the other European constitutional principles that oversee the proper administration of justice are written for this reason, in order to respond to the need of those who, like this elderly mother, await from our judicial offices a word of justice, which is timely, because unreasonablely long trials represent a vulnus for all: for the suspects and the accused, who suffer beyond the necessary penalty of the trial and the related effect of social stigmatization; for the sentenced, who find themselves having to execute a penalty at a distance of time, when they can well be - and are mostly - people other than those who have committed the crime; for the innocent, who have unjustly suffered beyond the weight of a process that may have destroyed personal and professional relations; and especially for the victims and for society, who do not obtain in a reasonable time a ascertainment of the facts and responsibilities, as it is necessary in a system of justice that aspires to ensure the necessary social cohesion. That old mother's letter also shows us where, in many cases, problems that hinder the work of magistrates and lawyers lie. That process of accident at work, one of too many processes for accidents at work, was struggling essentially because of a lack of adequate space, human and instrumental resources and this makes us think. The great, noble constitutional and European principles (the duration of the trial, the right of defence, access to justice) need solid realism and pragmatic concreteness in order not to be reduced to empty rhetoric. What would the maxi-process of Palermo be like without that bunker room that was the subject of the commitment of the then Minister of Justice Mino Martinazzoli? The great principles need organization and resources; they need magistrates, men and women in the gates, as well as in the courtrooms; they need working computer tools and accessible buildings. They seem like discounted things, but they're not in the current state of our justice system. This is mainly the effort that the Ministry is making, in line with the previous Government, which had prepared an extraordinary plan for recruitment. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the organisation and operation of justice services, as stated in Article 110 of the Constitution; it is the task of the Minister, therefore, and serves the function of judging, service to all its actors, prosecutors, judges and lawyers, and above all it is the service of citizens. The year of justice 2021 was marked by two context factors that dominated the whole country system: the pandemic and the planning of the PNRR with its first implementation, two elements that, on the one hand, have put continuous unexpected, challenges and problems, but on the other have also offered a series of opportunities and drives to change. The emergencies have followed without interruption and this last wave of contagion has further exacerbated the criticalities, but every day we have looked for new remedies to the ever new problems, we have restarted and incessantly reinvented our way of working. Allow me to take this opportunity to publicly and sincerely thank the magistrates, lawyers, administrative staff, the prison police, all the staff of the penitentiary institutions and the volunteers, who have continued to operate the machinery of justice and criminal execution in a spirit of adaptation and without avoiding risks not negligible. Also for the continuity of other fundamental ordinary activities have served commitment, creativity and ability to reorganize. It was essential to restart the tests for the exam for the lawyering, the competitions for the judiciary (one for 310 places was held last summer and a second for another 500 was banned recently) and then the competitions for the entry of other staff (oral tests are being carried out for 2,242 officials who had been suspended for Covid). In addition, it was necessary to reinvent the arrangements for interviews, visits and various work, cultural and educational activities in prison, to mention only some of the recent emergencies. While the health emergency was pressing with all its pressing challenges, however, we have developed long-term structural projects and reforms related to the objectives and opportunities offered by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, so as to start our justice system towards the broad lines of modernisation agreed with the European institutions. We have said this a thousand times: the objective, over five years, is to cut down 40% of the average length of civil trials and 25% of criminal trials. To date we can undoubtedly say that we have achieved - indeed, even in part exceeded - the commitments and targets set for 31 December 2021. The PNRR called for the approval of delegated laws on civil trial and criminal proceedings, insolvency interventions and the start of the process, and we did so. A look together at this year's intense work, full of commitments and goals, can be summarized according to three keys of reading. The first could be defined as follows: by the crisis an opportunity, i.e. by the emerging possibilities for structural reforms. In fact, one direction of this administration was to seize the opportunities for renewal of the justice system that emerged in the situation of the crisis in which the pandemic placed us, assessing which measures, including those imposed by contingency, could result in structural changes. Consider how to access the profession of lawyer, which has been changed, but also how to conduct hearings, both civil and criminal, and more generally the acceleration of the digital transition in justice buildings and penitentiary institutions. We will assess which of these aspects have worked and can be maintained. In this perspective, however, the PNRR asks Italy - for the justice system - not buffer measures, intended to be exhausted in the time horizon of the Plan, but a pre-ordered effort for a definitive improvement. I believe that, with the opportunity of reflection on the PNRR, it has finally been understood that the justice system is a backbone of the entire country system. Moreover, we are well aware that the modernisation and efficiency of the judicial system directly affect the economic soundness of the country. Among the many studies, I quote one from the Bank of Italy, which estimates that the reduction in the duration of processes of about 15% brings in itself an increase of at least half a percentage point of GDP, and our reduction targets far exceed that 15%. So that's what's at stake, too. The second key to reading is the Europe factor. The year of justice has been dominated by a European horizon, and not only for all activities related to the implementation of the PNRR; There are many other initiatives that the European Union is promoting in the field of justice. First of all, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which started operating this year, is a key tool for combating financial crimes, tax fraud (a huge problem), corruption and the illicit use of European funding, which is often the subject of mafia and organised crime of various kinds. In the first seven months of operation of the EDPS, the Italian offices started the highest number of investigations compared to the other countries, reaching a share of 21 percent of the total. I remember the prosecutor Kövesi complimented our offices. The investigations have shown a significant involvement of organised crime. As I have already noted, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a forward-looking and necessary innovation, when large amounts of European funds are about to be put into circulation. This was taught a long time ago by Giovanni Falcone, the first to understand, as far back as 1991, the need to protect Europe's financial interests by means of appropriate structures and measures at European level. The establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, with its 22 delegated prosecutors in Italy, really has its most remote origins in a prophetic intuition of the great Italian magistrate, whose sacrifice continues to bear fruit for thirty years from the massacre of Capaci, which we will remember in May, followed by that of Via D'Amelio in July, in which Paul Borsellino lost his life. [[Applause]] Other important regulatory measures adopted to implement commitments made within the European Union are still of a European nature: for example, legislation on combating money laundering, legislation on the presumption of innocence and legislation on the use of digital tools and processes in company law. On the other hand, we still have to implement the Whistleblowing Directive, and we will have to do so as soon as possible, which is a valuable tool for combating corruption, even if legislation is already partly present in our system, thanks to interventions launched in 2012 and 2017. We have also intervened on the rules governing the acquisition of telephone records for investigation purposes, in order to adapt to the indications from the Court of Justice of the European Union. Among the important initiatives taken in the wake of various stimuli coming from Europe, we must also mention the one on the honorary judiciary, which had been waiting for a response for too long. Thanks to the willingness of the Government that has found the necessary resources, and of all the political forces in Parliament, with the budget law we have managed to establish a stabilisation for thousands of honorary magistrates, who for years have provided their essential service in a condition of total absence of work protection (no sickness, no maternity, no vacation), a deficiency repeatedly stigmatized by the European institutions. The third key to reading that sums up the activity of these months is, as you may have already guessed, the centrality of the organizational factor. Reducing the time frame of the process requires reforms, but above all a new organisation. As you know, justice has been affected by some important reforms that Parliament has approved, overcoming the non-negligible differences of views and sensitivity between the various political forces, allowing a sense of responsibility for the common good and the primary interest of the country to prevail. What I would like to stress, however, is that those reforms to become effective require a major restructuring of the organisation of the justice service, accompanied by the provision of substantial human and material resources. Organization and human capital are the condition of the effectiveness of those reforms. That is why, before briefly retracing the main chapters of the regulatory reforms adopted this year, I would like to draw your attention to the reorganisation of the justice sector currently under way. The first and most important change was the establishment of the trial office. This is the most important innovation, the pivot of the new organisation of justice, which will soon bring thousands of young lawyers to our judicial offices to help the magistrates work. The Italian system already knew this structure, because we have experienced it in various districts of court of appeal; but now we spread it gradually in all offices and this will involve a real change of paradigm in the organization of work, because it marks the transition from the individual and solitary work of the judge to that of team. Several times in recent months, in the public debate, voices have been voiced concerned about the pressing of a sort of efficient vision of justice. I would like to point out that, if well organized and well conducted, the office of the process not only increases the efficiency of justice, improving its times (which, as we have seen, are not secondary factors), but also promotes its quality. And there is no competition, much less contradiction, between efficiency and the quality of justice, but mutual support, within the office of the trial. Very soon, on February 14, 200 young lawyers will enter the Court of Cassation; on February 21, some 8,000 others will serve in all the Italian judicial offices. Note the figures: in service today we have about 9,000 magistrates and the entry of about 8,200 young assistant lawyers is a potentially very important aid, both quantitatively, and - I do not tire of repeating - for the intergenerational connection that this office can bring. Also within the same framework of the office of the trial, in the coming weeks there will be a contingent of important technicians (5,410) who will support this office in tasks such as data entry, statistical survey and organizational analysis (all the tasks of support of the management action of the judicial and administrative summits of the offices). I cannot fail to thank the Department of Public Service here for supporting us in the celebration of these competitions, which saw the participation of tens and tens of thousands of aspirants. Obviously, however, the numbers are not enough: people need to be trained and well organized, and so we are working with the High School of the judiciary and the National School of the Administration, which I also thank for the collaboration, to offer adequate training not only to the selected staff (these young lawyers), but also to the heads of the judicial offices, who are called to an enormous effort to redesign their way of working and their structures, in order to be able to usefully devote the new human resources to the specific needs of each court, every section and every court. This office will be stabilized over time, as the reforms of the criminal and civil process already foresee, which also have quotas with financial coverage; the idea is that this great innovation is destined to change the face of our judicial offices even beyond the horizon of the PNRR. The second important organisational measure is the imminent establishment of a new department, at the Ministry of Justice, dedicated exclusively to digital transition and statistics. Why this new institution? Allow me to dwell only for a moment on the centrality and importance of developing a correct culture of data, statistics and transparency, which is a fundamental condition for the good performance of all public services, including justice services. We know that the objectives of reducing process times will not be achieved at once; it is not work that can be done overnight: we are all aware of this. We are equally aware that we have laid the foundations and started a virtuous process, but we know that its completion will take time. It will be a gradual path, which, in order not to derail, will have to be accompanied by a constant survey of the progress of the times of each judicial office, so as to be able to intervene promptly to respond with resources more adapted to the emerging needs, to remove unexpected obstacles and to face many problems, which - realistically - will not fail. This is why it is also essential in the field of justice to develop public policies based on data and transparency, which are constantly monitored on the basis of statistically developed experience. We have learned in recent months that ensuring an accurate measurement of the impact of reforms is essential for the confidence of the European institutions in our country, but in my eyes it is more: it is also a duty of transparency towards citizens, a commitment to democracy that over time strengthens mutual trust between institutions and citizenship. Trust is a good that there is an immense need for. Let me remind you of a small episode that happened to me in a dialogue in a context of international entrepreneurs and investors. At some point, in this dialogue in which I was illustrating the reforms of justice in Italy, the objectives and the means we have made available, I was asked this question: But when will we be able to return to investing in Italy, sure that the times of justice will really be comparable to those of other countries? When? This question says how much attention there is also on the part of international observers, as has also emerged in some newspapers, which invite investors back to look at Italy. What can be answered to such a question? Can we offer evasive, generic, or deceptive answers? Tomorrow, in a year, in six months or in two years? I did not feel like giving a time, but to say that the only credible answer is: you will decide the time; we will ensure that you have the data, the statistics, all the elements in full transparency, so that you can make your assessments and make your decisions. This is the administration of justice that I have in mind and the establishment of the new department at the Ministry will help to develop this culture of data, with the possibility of directly accessing the estimates of all services related to the administration of justice, even those collected by the offices with the duty to make them accessible, obviously in full respect of the principles and requirements of confidentiality of investigations and personal data. Data monitoring is particularly necessary in the context of criminal reform and for this reason the delegation law provides for a dedicated technical-scientific committee, which we have already set up in December, for monitoring the efficiency of criminal justice, with the task of carrying out a periodic verification of the achievement of the objectives of acceleration and simplification, in compliance with the principles of the right process. This follow-up committee has within it a unit dedicated to crimes against public administration. For our part and for the European institutions there is a constant concern about the scourge of corruption, which requires attention, because of its ability - as the President of the Republic said a long time ago - to devour public resources and undermine the relationship of trust between the State and citizens. Process office, data culture and monitoring. The third aspect is digitalisation and the establishment of the new Department also reflects this constant attention to digitisation, which in the field of justice does not only imply the dematerialization of paper documents in all civil and criminal proceedings, but also allows a new system of organisation of procedural forms and enhances the tools of knowledge available to prosecutors and judges. The quality of digitisation, possibly also supported by artificial intelligence, while respecting the ethical charter adopted by the European Commission for the efficiency of justice (CEPEJ) in 2018, already affects today and will increasingly require the quality of the response of justice services and its timeliness. There are many projects in progress and I call for only two of them, which seem small, but go to undo some very particular problems of our system. One is the very recent launch of the new SIAMM Digital Pinto application, which is a platform for the management of payment procedures due to the violation of the reasonable duration of the process. These are procedures which, in turn, often had the same vice of evil as they wanted to heal, i.e. they generated further unreasonable durations of the trial. Then, in the context of the drive to digitalize the criminal process, I would like to mention a project aimed at breaking down and solving the problem of the so-called shopping cart times, those times, which are sometimes very long and are measured in terms of months, if not years, for the transit of the procedure from one degree of judgment to another. It seems a minor aspect, but many times the duration of the appeal judgment, which is the most difficult and less virtuous of our criminal trial, is due not to the duration of the hearings or to the work of the judge, but to the time of the passage of the cards. Therefore, with DG Reform of the European Commission we have drawn up a project, which aims to eliminate this problem of the time to cross the file and I believe that it will be able to give a great benefit precisely to the appeals judgments, on which so many criticalities of our system are pinpointed. These are two small examples, among the many I could mention, but I will not do so because we have so many other things to tell us. However, I would like to stress that the development of the new projects that the Ministry of Justice is also promoting with the collaboration of the Minister for technological innovation and digital transition must be accompanied and developed in parallel with indisputable interventions to solve daily computer problems, due - as lawyers, who are also present in this House, know - to the obsolescence and fragmentation of those already in existence. The systems in place need continuous maintenance and radical rethinking. Let me conclude this part, which is the most full-bodied, on all organizational aspects, with a notation of method. Since the beginning of my mandate, I have tried to ensure that the Ministry of Justice always operates in synergy with all the actors in the justice system: Superior Council of the judiciary, High School of the judiciary, individual judicial offices, Advocate and also with the university. Institutional cooperation, which is a constitutional principle and a good rule to be followed for the smooth functioning of each branch of the administration, for justice is an imperative requirement, in view of the fact that the independence and autonomy of the judiciary of the individual judges emphasize the need for involvement and coordination among all the players. For this reason, in recent months, I have started to visit one to one personally all the Courts of Appeal, to know, see and discuss with the territory the indications, the main problems and the main criticalities. In the same perspective, a key role was played by the Joint Committee, which weekly brings together representatives of the Ministry and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Again, I would like to point out an important protocol, signed by CSM, the School of the judiciary and the Ministry, for the training of the executives of the judicial offices. A virtuous relationship is also developing with the university. For example, I recall the financing of 51 million euros of six macro projects, involving 57 state universities, for the dissemination of the office of the process, for the implementation of innovative operational models in the judicial offices and for the disposal of the backward. I now come to remind you - very quickly, because you know them better than I do - of the regulatory reforms that Parliament has adopted in recent months. I am well aware of how much effort and willingness all political forces have been asked to find a ground on which to converge. These reforms are daughters of the extraordinary context in which they were born: a government supported by a very large majority, of national unity, with sensitivity within it very distant from each other. But the path of reform of justice - a path that is not always linear, we know - has been supported by the common responsibility for the interest of the country, always in search of a balanced synthesis, and for this I heartily thank all political forces. As far as the individual chapters of the reforms are concerned, I am simply stating their titles and their essential meaning. The first and most important is the reform of the criminal process, approved in Parliament with the aim of combining greater efficiency of the system with respect for the fundamental constitutional guarantees in criminal matters. The plant is based on two pillars: on the one hand it affects the rules of the criminal process, operating on its various phases, from investigations to the judgment in Cassation, in order to unblock possible moments of stasis, to encourage alternative rites, to bring to trial only cases worthy of the attention of the judge; on the other hand, the reform provides interventions on the penal sanctioning system, capable of producing also significant effects of procedural deflation. This part of the reform continues along a line already present in our system, aimed at rooting the idea, constitutionally oriented, that the certainty of punishment is not the certainty of prison: Article 27 of the Constitution speaks of punishment and not of prison. It is in this perspective that it is therefore necessary to read the valorization of the penalties alternatives to imprisonment that now, as widely demonstrated, lead in some cases, where possible, to a drastic reduction of relapse. Individuals benefit and benefit from it. However, as you well know, the reform of criminal justice has also addressed the issue of limitation. On the one hand, the limitation was confirmed after the first-degree judgment provided for in the 2019 reform and, on the other hand, some corrections were made to the defendant's guarantee, introducing in the appeals proceedings the new institute of improvisation for exceeding the maximum time limits of the judgments. The Institute of Improcedibility has been modulated so as to always ensure that all trials arrive at final judgment. The statistical monitoring we have been talking about will help ensure that this objective is always achieved. In criminal matters, among the reforms still to be implemented we cannot fail to mention at least the one on Article 4-a of the Law on penitentiary law, which will be discussed in the Justice Commission in the House. The twelve months of time given by the Constitutional Court to Parliament will expire in May in order to intervene on this matter, respecting constitutional principles and safeguarding the specificities and requirements of the fight against the mafia and organised crime in general. I cannot conclude this part on criminal justice without mentioning that one of the red threads linking the plots of the reform is the repair of the offense and the attention to the victims. This explains the chapter of the reform which I consider to be more innovative, the chapter on reparational justice, on which I will briefly come to a conclusion. The reform of the civil process, the second major reform, also aims to provide faster answers to the daily needs of citizens and businesses, intervening on a double track: on the one hand, enhancing and improving alternative dispute resolution (ADR) tools in order to deflate the burden of the courts and promoting consensual solutions of conflicts; on the other, it acts on procedures with targeted and limited interventions in the perspective of simplification. The reform aims to achieve a greater concentration of procedural activities in the context of the first hearing of appearance of the parties and dealing with the case: reduction of the question, rationalization of the answer. Among the innovations of the reform I note only the great novelty of the reference for a preliminary ruling in Cassation, which allows to involve the Court of Cassation early when interpretative doubts arise, without waiting for the end of the three degrees of judgment, so that the judge can prevent the formation of conflicting territorial orientations and promote legal certainty with an important deflagrating effect. The third chapter concerns the reform of insolvency due and required by the economic crisis that developed with the pandemic. It is an indispensable regulatory intervention and the objective is to offer new and more effective tools to entrepreneurs to remedy those situations of economic and patrimonial imbalance which, while revealing the existence of a crisis or a state of insolvency, appear reversible. The heart of this reform is the negotiated composition of the crisis, a voluntary path through which the entrepreneur, away from courtrooms and in absolute confidentiality, addresses a third and impartial expert. This institute is accompanied by alert systems, both internal and external to companies entrusted by qualified public creditors, so that the entrepreneur can make self-diagnosis and make use of this instrument in time. Timeliness is the heart of the success of these operations. A chapter in the reform of the civil process has been devoted to the family and children: too many cases of violence against women, too many feminicides, too many violence against children, too many dramas that originate in a home and of which we have daily news. A real barbarism, some of you said. The dispute in family relations is growing and becoming increasingly complex: cases of separation are intertwined with complaints of domestic violence, especially against women, or with actions of the judge to protect minors. Too often insufficient coordination of all the leading authorities - court for minors, ordinary civil court, criminal court, court for protection - renders the intervention of all ineffective and reduces the possibility of preventing even fatal consequences. Hence the need for a thorough reform of the procedures and the judicial organisation of the sector, which will lead in due time to the establishment of the court for persons, minors and families, in order to increase the procedural guarantees of the most vulnerable persons, building on the great experience of juvenile judges and enhancing their specialization in a new and more rational legal context. Criminal delegation, civil delegation, family rights of minors, insolvency: we have done a great deal about reforms. The most important of these reforms have been taken into the form of the delegation law and therefore today require the implementation of delegated legislative decrees that for the PNRR must be ready by the end of 2022. I can assure you that we are already working on this with several working groups in both criminal and civil matters and I hope to be able to anticipate the times, but we know that the appeal is missing another fundamental - and everyone expected - chapter of the reforms, the reform of the judiciary and the CSM, which the President of the Republic and some political forces have still recently rightly called for. The bill of delegation is already incardinated to the House, at the initiative of the previous Government, and as we have done with the other reforms we intend to present government amendments. You know this: in the autumn, after the approval of the criminal and civil delegation, we immediately created opportunities for confrontation with those responsible for the justice of the various political forces and we had more interlocutions with the National Association of Judges, with the Supreme Council of the judiciary and with the Appeal for proposals for amendments to be submitted to the House. These proposals are for the attention of the Government today. The amendments intervene on various aspects of the bill and relate, among other things, to the electoral system, the composition and functioning of the CSM, the conferral of management duties, professionalism assessments, the placement of judges out of role, the competition for access to the judiciary, the relationship between the magistrate and the elected offices. I am sure that in the coming weeks we will also be able to move forward in writing this long-awaited chapter of the reform, which the PNRR also asks us to approve this year. The House has already scheduled the debate in this House and that deadline will have to be respected. For my part, as I have always done, I will continue - you know it well, because I have often spoken with you on these issues - not only to give my greatest willingness, but also to spend all my energy to speed up the course of this reform and to request its examination by the competent bodies of the Government. There are two other chapters on which I would like to speak briefly before I finish my speech. I apologise for asking for so much patience, but we have worked so hard and it seems right to give a complete overview of the many sectors, albeit quickly. One is the prison chapter and the other is that of international activities. As for prison, as I have already observed, the pandemic has been a detonator to unresolved issues for a very long time. These years have been so hard. Tensions, fears, uncertainties, isolation that we have all experienced, were and are amplified inside the prison walls, for everyone: for those who work in prison and for those who serve his sentence in prison. If we really want to take responsibility for the evils of prison, first and foremost so that there is never again violence like those we have seen this year, but, more broadly, in order for the penalty really to achieve the goal set out in the Constitution, we need to conceive and implement a strategy that operates on several levels: investment in prison structures, acceleration of recruitment of staff, richer training of staff in service, dissemination of the use of technologies, both for the needs of safety and for those of the treatment of prisoners. The first and most serious of all problems continues to be overcrowding. Sometimes we forget this, but today, out of 50,832 regulatory posts, of which 47,418 are actual ones, the inmates are 54,329, i.e. an overcrowding percentage of 114 percent. Overcrowding is an exasperating condition, both for prisoners and for prison police, all too often the victim of aggression. Overcrowding means greater difficulty in guaranteeing safety and means greater difficulty in proposing activities that allow the penalty to favour recovery paths. We need more space, we need to develop penalties other than imprisonment. As I have already said, the reform adopted goes in this direction, but the reality of alternative forms of imprisonment is already significantly present in our system. I would like to stress here that people in external criminal execution exceed the number of prisoners. There are over 69,000, compared to about 54,000 inmates. And in the UEPEs, the external criminal enforcement offices, there are only 1211 staff units that deal with it. It is clear that this sector needs to be strengthened, and the political forces have had the sensitivity to stress it, on an agenda approved in the margins of the budget law. Of course, much must also be done for the buildings: some really are not worthy of our country. Last Friday I visited the prison of Sollicciano in Florence: it is in unsettling conditions, despite the extraordinary renovation in progress. And here important numbers of self-harm and suicide occur, not by chance. We need to rethink the spaces. The theme of the spaces requires, first of all, interventions aimed at guaranteeing the essential conditions of decorum and hygiene, but also implies a rethinking of the places, so that they are not only containers of men, but dense environments of proposals, work, activity and culture. This is the only way to fully absolve the constitutional value of the sentence. From this point of view, I would like to recall the work done by the Commission on penitentiary architecture, which was already established and was finishing its work when I arrived at the Ministry. It has offered us fruitful suggestions, which we are trying to implement. With the additional funds of the PNRR we are creating eight new pavilions, extensions of existing institutions, which concern both the available places, the rooms and the handling posts. This is why we have corrected previous projects. For months I have also been devoting myself to the issue of mental health in prison, together with the Ministers of Health and Regional Affairs and other institutional actors involved. It is a really huge tragedy, both in the joints for the protection of internal mental health as well as in the REMS (residence for the execution of safety measures), which are outside. It is true that the number of people waiting for a place in the REMS has dropped (there were 98 in October 2020, today 35), it is true that we have on the horizon - I hope to announce it in the next few days - the availability of a new structure that will give relief to this problem too, but, believe me, the work to do here is still very much. Lack of space, lack of staff: we are finalizing the recruitment of so much staff also unlocking the competitions provided by previous governments. We need to invest more in training - in the report you find all the data and numbers - especially in prison police, as the unions constantly require me. The task he carries out is very delicate, because it is not only vigilance, custody and security: it is daily presence next to the prisoner. This staff must be supported by adequate and constant training. In these months I have collected many testimonies that tell how decisive the presence of an agent has been to mark a turning point in the life of a prisoner. Last step on the prison: last 17 December, the Commission for the innovation of the prison system that I had set up a few months ago proposed solutions to help improve the quality of life and criminal execution in its everyday life, with a particular focus on security management, the use of technologies, health protection, work, the professional training of prisoners and the training of staff. There are great potentials that can give relief to this world, linked to technologies (surveillance, body cam, drone systems, remote interviews, lectures and online conferences, much more, telemedicine) and, thanks to the sensitivity and interest of the Minister for technological innovation and digital transition, many interventions are being planned that can become as many opportunities for work for prisoners. The last chapter is that of international activity, perhaps less well-known - we do not think of this international projection of the Minister of Justice - and that instead it is fundamental both to increase the culture of fundamental rights and to cultivate enhanced judicial cooperation to combat the great phenomena of transnational crime. There are many projects in place, ranging from bilateral relations - for example, with certain countries such as Albania - to allow prisoners, where conditions exist, to serve the sentence in their country of origin. There are cases under everyone's attention: again, in these days, even for the recurrence that we are about to live shortly, the case Regeni asks the Ministry - as the judicial authority has urged us to do - to intensify the activity in order to allow this process to take place. There was the French case, in which, after years of waiting, the French political bodies removed the obstacles in order to allow the French judicial authorities to examine the extradition procedure for persons convicted definitively for serious crimes committed in the years of lead. Then, there was the whole chapter of Afghanistan that also involved the Ministry of Justice for the twenty-year bond that our country had with Afghanistan precisely for the construction of the rule of law. We could not and did not want to forget those magistrates and lawyers who had collaborated so much with the Italian authorities during our presence in Afghanistan. We have worked to ensure that international protection is given to particularly important figures who were at risk with the new regime. Among these the former Attorney General of the province of Herat, Maria Bashir, a leading figure in the defense of women's rights and in the construction of a rule of law in her land, in collaboration with our country, to which the President of the Republic wanted to grant Italian citizenship for very high merits. In the context of the many international initiatives, on which I do not wish to entertain you further, there is one that deserves attention: it is the Conference of Ministers of Justice of the Member States of the Council of Europe, which we held in Venice on 13 and 14 December last, on crime and criminal justice and on the role of reparational justice in Europe. Here I go back to that chapter of the criminal reform that I mentioned. The Conference was the first ministerial-level event under the Italian Presidency of the Council of Europe, attended by the Secretary-General and 40 delegations. This important initiative led to the sharing of the Venice Declaration on Reparative Justice, which was then adopted by the highest bodies of the Council of Europe these days. With this Declaration, all the States of the Council of Europe have undertaken to develop a new paradigm of criminal justice, complementary to the traditional one, which moves from the need to actively engage in paths led by professional mediators the crime and the victim, but also the community of reference, with the fundamental objective of repairing and restoring the social ties lacerated by the crime, to empower the author of the offense, but also to lay the foundations for a future and more conscious resumption of relations in the contexts of belonging. The repercussions are tangible, clear and well documented by empirical studies carried out at national and international level: reduction of relapse, relief of criminal proceedings, new centrality for the victim, left too often against the background of judicial proceedings and alone with his pain. Allow me then to conclude on this very chapter of repair justice, which is certainly the most innovative for our system. Reparative justice is not an act of clemency, nor does it express a weak thought in criminal matters; on the contrary, it is a tool that develops alongside the traditional forms of containment of the freedom of the condemned, indispensable when there are demands for social defense in the face of the dangerousness of the author of the crime. Reparative justice is demanding justice, because it asks the wrongdoer to assume all his responsibility in the face of the victim and in the face of the community, through freely agreed meetings, with the help of a third party that favors the recognition of the truth of what happened. I have a nice example to offer you, but I see that the time has been too long and I leave it to those who want to read it: it concerned the case of a small town in Salerno, where the nearby wood was burned, in one of the many arsonous fires. Why is it so decisive to cultivate this path of repairing justice? Because the legal system, with these tools, opens up the possibility of a judicial system capable of taming the anger caused by the crime and rebuilding the civic links between citizens. More generally, it is a tool that helps to cultivate a culture that can become a paradigm to prevent and regulate the conflicts of the entire polis on the basis of extraordinary historical experiences, such as the Commission for Truth and Reconciliation of Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu at the end of apartheid in Africa. We already have many fruitful experiments on these systems. This is the concept of justice that I care about and that you will find in filigree in all the reform interventions that I have here in summary retraced. A justice that sews and repairs, that nourishes itself of hatred that does not yield to the vengeful reaction, but that lives above all of the search for truth, of that truth that emerges in the narration in front of the other, in the personal encounter, in the story and in the reciprocal listening of one's own experience. This is the justice on which I was called to reflect precisely on the place of the greatest injustice of our history, that track 21 at the central station of Milan from which the Auschwitz trains left. On one of the most intense days of all my service at the Ministry I was invited by the senator for life Liliana Segre and by her accompanied up to those wagons from which as a child she left with her father for an unknown destination, the concentration camp. Those atrocities, which the whole world is ashamed of today and which we will remember on the International Day of Memory in a few days' time, have been fueled, as we can clearly see in front of track 21, by indifference, by the inability to listen, by small and great discrimination, by hate speech, by the idea of the other as an enemy. Cultivating an idea of justice that has at heart the search for truth and cares for personal and social relationships is what I intended to pursue in this year almost serving the Ministry of Justice. I am convinced that this is the greatest urgency of our time and that this is the spirit that our Constitution conveys to us. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u6	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister, Professor Marta Cartabia, for her timely report on the administration of justice. The year that has just ended has been marked by the pandemic for which the response that Parliament and the Government, in agreement with all the actors of the justice system, have been able to offer has proved suitable for achieving important results, objectives set already from the beginning of the legislature. While, on the one hand, it was intended to extend some of the emergency measures carried out in the previous year that avoided the paralysis of justice, such as those related to the processes remotely, which allowed, even under conditions not always ideal, the celebration of the processes, on the other hand, a massive dose of recruitment through the completion of public competitions. The machine of justice, therefore, has never stopped; a proof is that more than 8,000 young lawyers will begin their journey at the newly established office of the trial just next month. The approval of the laws of delegation to criminals and civilians marks the first important step towards a faster system and also in many respects, perhaps not all, more efficient. The figure of the honorary judiciary, which has played an important role over the past few years, must be valued. Parliament is ready to contribute to the drafting of legislative decrees, calling for continued and fruitful cooperation with the delegated legislator. Emergential legislation has had to adapt to the restrictions imposed by the virus, modifying in root also important aspects of the formation of the children who face the profession of forensics; emblem of this are the changes to the modalities of access. These are some of the rules that have characterized the intense effort of the legislator in order to mitigate the harmful consequences of the pandemic. The aspect I care about is that of intervention in the penitentiary. Desponder spem munus nostrum, guaranteeing hope is our task. For more than twenty years in charge of complex structures such as those of the prison, I have made my own this principle, written on the heraldic coat of arms of the prison police body, with which I have had the honour daily to interface and work. Prison is a place of community, where the suffering of one is the suffering of all, but where the hope of each one is the hope of our whole society. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term I have committed all my energies to counter the atavic problems that permeate our prison system. Article 27 of the Constitution means that prison is not a place of repression, but of order, security and treatment, where prisoners are led to the internalisation of norms, accountability and compliance with rules through a process of inclusion focused on autonomy, socialization and integration. The purpose of the sentence is to eliminate relapse. In this sense, the provision for the recruitment of social workers belonging to the community department is also an expression of the need to ensure the feasibility of alternative measures, including those who do not have suitable homes. In fact, there is an objective difficulty in disposing of the numbers of prison overcrowding, also given the fact that access to alternative measures often requires an appropriate home at which to serve the sentence. It is therefore necessary to give great importance to the possibility of taking advantage of the alternative punishment in communities suitable for this purpose (I am thinking of the reality of my territory of Andria). A further step forward in this respect, in order to avoid, in the face of short sentences, the desocialisation resulting from a short term imprisonment, thus giving priority to a salary purpose, has been achieved in accordance with the provisions of the law delegation on the criminal process, where the discipline of the substitution sanctions of the short prison sentences has been reformed, with the aim of anticipating the application of the substitution sanctions already in the cognition phase. The prison emergency is a problem that we have been hearing for years; countless facts of the news see indiscriminately involved prisoners and personnel, who, depending on the case, are presumed perpetrators or victims of illegal events. This is certainly a manifestation of inadequate living conditions for all those who revolve around prison facilities. No violence can find justification or tolerance; all violence must be punished, but it must also be prevented. Important is the recruitment of staff of Prison Police (1,650 agents and future competitions), as well as for treating figures and prison managers. In order to facilitate the reeducational treatment of the deed, there is a need for prison institutions to be equipped with automated and sophisticated control tools. The combination of safety and treatment is an inseparable combination. Even the dynamic surveillance institute, which is implemented by European standards, which consists of the detention of the prisoner outside the cell for up to fourteen hours, can only be carried out where there are adequate control systems, avoiding leaving an agent alone to verify a section. In addition, I would like to remind you that many persons deprived of freedom have psychiatric conditions, and unfortunately it must be noted that there are not always adequate ASL articulation for mental health. Well, you did, Mrs. Minister, with regard to the issue of mental health in prison, to highlight the issue of REMS. Finally, it should be remembered that, in the context of the recovery plan planning, there are different interventions aimed at improving the environments both to expand the available spaces, and to create environments dedicated to treatment. To this end, there is a total budget of EUR 132.9 million, to be allocated to the construction and improvement of eight pavilions and to the restructuring of penitentiary institutions, precisely because a dignified penalty must be carried out in adequate structures and certainly not dilapidated. Hypothesis such as the transfer of foreign prisoners to the place of origin is certainly a measure that must be taken into account. 10:24 a.m. (Follows PIARULLI). Particular attention must also be paid to remedial justice: only through the settlement of the conflict between the victim and the victim can relapse be avoided, because that process of responsibleness of the crime can be initiated and, in the meantime, to make the victim aware of the consequences he has caused to the victim. Only in this way could the conflict be reconciled through the presence of specialised figures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u8	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretaries, the level of the report has been so balanced and so cogent, because there have been so many things that I have done, that I probably will not speak at this level. I would like, more than anything else, to make some notations about some points that I think are important as a type of experience. This is my first parliamentary experience, my first parliamentary term, and I remember that the first two years I entered the Commission with justice always with a certain gloom, because there was a difficult situation; indeed, it was practically impossible to achieve a minimum confrontation on the issues. I remember some measures, for example the night we passed the so-called corrupt law sweeping the yellow-green government. I remember the measures for which virtually all the part related to the so-called alternative punishments was simply - forgive me the expression - thrown into a basket. I also remember that the report on justice last year was such a complex rock that it actually determined the change of government. Today I have to say that I live - as a Member of Parliament - a completely different situation. I understand the Minister, who said in his report that some approaches have been taken by the previous Minister, but the fact is that, looking at the climate and the things that have been done, although with a whole series of critical issues and problems that can be brought along (if nothing is done you certainly do not have criticism, but when you do things automatically there can be criticism, as an old proverb teaches), it has been a year from the point of view of the measures on justice. Above all, it has been a year in which a fundamental myth has been debunked, namely that reforms concerning justice in this country were made at zero cost, i.e. without investment, without putting money in it, without having a perspective. The Minister has always explained that this obviously depends on the PNRR. I want to remind the House that the PNRR is not born as an imposition of Europe: sometimes I hear this echoing in conferences and chatter. The plan was agreed between our country and Europe, with resolutions from the parliamentary committees, voted unanimously, among other things. It is therefore a kind of collective train, that we all have the moral and civil commitment, towards the country, to carry on in the best possible way. Having said that, I should like to speak no more than I know, but I shall just mention a few basic concepts. As I said, I believe that a myth has been broken, because Europe on the one hand and the government and the majority on the other, with the challenge of the PNRR, have finally put justice at the centre, so much at the centre that just making a list of everything that has been done, today would take away a half an hour, just to read its chapters. However, I would like to focus on one point in the Minister's report, which I believe is fundamental, because other aspects will then be discussed by colleagues. The Minister spoke of transparency and trust as a key to actually turning a turning point in relations between citizens, operators and justice. I am convinced of this and that the transparency of the data generates collective awareness and therefore also a collective control and co-responsibility and consequently determines a fundamental aid also for the achievement of the results. We cannot think of having major reforms of justice if they are not accompanied by specific transparency on all data and performance results. [[Call the president back.]] I only had seven minutes for my speech, because there is little time, but I want to reiterate this concept, which I believe is essential to explain what is being done. In fact, there is no collective awareness of everything that has been done and is being done, and on this the political forces that support the Government still have a duty to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u10	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, I will be very detailed in my speech and I will deal with a small part of your report, which I have listened to and which has asked me to speak. This part concerns the condition of our penitentiaries and all the considerations that you have expressed in this regard, with respect to this macro-problem, which we carry behind us from several managements of your Dicastery and not from today, of course. Minister, I appeal to the sensitivity that I have been able to perceive in listening to your report, to the great sensitivity that you have shown on this and on all the issues you have dealt with during the illustration because I am aware that we are starting from a somewhat different point of view and paradigms. I've always had great attention to the condition of our penitentiaries. I have constantly visited them, starting with those of my region, as a regional councillor, and I can assure you, Minister, that, by simplifying a lot, the daily living conditions on the prison planet are directly proportional to the working conditions of prison police officers; this is for a simple and simple observation, namely that there is a cause-effect relationship between the well-being and serenity of the prison police officer, as far as possible carrying out difficult work, and his behaviour, always within the framework of legislation and law, towards the prisoners. It is trivial as I am telling you, but I want to highlight it because in your speech I did not perceive this sensitivity, I did not warn you, so I feel obliged to express this consideration. The servants of the State, divided into bodies, are all, as far as I am concerned, our daily heroes; but if we wanted to draw up a ranking of those who are subjected to more difficult and complicated working conditions, I have no doubt that the prison police officers are really those most put in trouble. Firstly, objectively, for the type of work they have to do: they are also imprisoned, for a compensation that sometimes does not reach 1,500 euros per month, obviously in an absolutely blameless way. Moreover, they are often put in difficulty by the rules to which we submit them and, above all, by the chronic, guilty, incomprehensible sub-organic to which they are subject. What up to a few years ago they did in four or five, today only one agent does. Minister, it is enough to access some penitentiary - and not enough the example of the penitentiary of Florence: I tell you that almost all penitentiaries, except for a few very rare exceptions, are in the same condition - to perceive this great, great problem. Minister, I appeal to your sensitivity. The body of the prison police officers refers to his Dicastery, evidently, therefore I urge, as far as possible, greater attention to the daily living conditions of the agents, more and more, moreover, victims of episodes of aggression by the prisoners. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your reform, Minister, contains some changes, but unfortunately the opportunity to make a historic breakthrough has not been taken. Yet for the crisis so marked, which shows resounding cracks in the justice system, more could and had to be done. There are two reasons: an administration so frayed, that today it is difficult to be in the hearts of people, it needed to recover a judicial humanism, in order to avoid all the degenerative processes that we have witnessed; moreover, the total elimination of that slowness in the realization of some structural reforms, that is a limit to the potential growth of Italy. Your reform, Minister, was a downward compromise, unfortunately. Moreover, as a priority concern, more the problem of the organizational efficiency of the judicial machinery has prevailed than the type of judicial closure that tends to predominate among the criminal magistrates. The administration of justice in Italy is affected, in this historical phase, by important reforms, demanded both from the inside, for the state of degradation and crisis that the sector has been living for decades, both from the outside, as you have also been reminded, especially from the European Union, in the perspective of strengthening the reliability of the country for the better realization of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. As you know, there are three chapters of these reforms, some of which are already being implemented. We'd like those reforms that way. The reform of civil justice, for a turning point in favour of citizens and economic operators for the guarantee of legal certainty; economic security in the regulation of business activities and contracts; the protection of the rights of the person and the weak; the implementation of the Constitution through an effective, prompt and secure response to civil, contractual, bankruptcy and family justice; the reform of criminal justice, for the greater respect of the human rights involved in the process and in the execution of the sentence, the guarantees of defence in each State and the degree of the process to fight an exasperated panpenalism, the supplement of the prosecutions, the defects or delays of the active administration, for a rebalancing of the role of the office of attorney in the conduct of the criminal proceedings, with the position of the defenders for a moralization of the relations between justice and information, but on this I will return later. The reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the judiciary for a more modern and responsible judiciary, truly independent of politics, open to the international, for a Superior Council of the judiciary actually autonomous from the currents, for an evaluation of judges based on merit and not on recommendations or belongings: the Palamara case has taught so much, but has not solved the problem, if still in the last week the Council of State has beheaded the summits of the Supreme Court of Cassation, canceling the appointments of the President and the Deputy President of the Court of legitimacy. What we will fight for and want to fight for, Minister, is a country free from heavy conditioning based on the use of justice as an instrument of intervention, sometimes with a tense leg, in the political race. Our view of the principles of the rule of law can no longer tolerate the distortions we see every day. The fact that the news of the notification of a guarantee information camping on the front page of the newspapers and that the irrevocable acquittal sentence issued by the Supreme Court of Cassation has no echo, since it does not interest the media and therefore does not reach the public opinion, amounts to deconstructing the very meaning of justice, its role as a forge of legal certainty and legal relations, as well as the fact that the newspapers, even in the face of absolutions in the substance, continue for years to overshadow non-existent responsibilities on the part of the accused and reappear news of investigations later failed, as if they were sources of absolute historical truth. The reputational engineering that follows the development of investigations ends up distorting the sacred principle of the presumption of innocence on which the juridical civilization of our country is founded. Then there is an important subject, but always little warned, that of the prison system. I congratulate you because you have made a great deal of reference to this point, but I would also like to say my own. The chronic conditions of overcrowding remain unchanged, narrow spaces for a very excessive number of people, as you recalled: a capacity of 40,000 seats for more than 50,000 people. Effective security controls are lacking; doctors, psychologists, educators, agents are lacking and rehabilitation routes are lacking for the return to society. We hope that the construction of new structures and the reduction in the number of crimes for which prison is used can reverse an absurd and unfamiliar direction of march. If to the fact that in prisons, unfortunately, a thousand people are found for judicial errors and unjust detention, the inhuman and degrading treatment of certain institutions of punishment is added, as the European Court of Human Rights ruled a long time ago, then it must be acknowledged that there is still so much to be done and I hope that you will do so. One last point I would like to share, Minister. 2022 is the year of the 30th anniversary of the massacres of Capaci and Via D'Amelio, a historic moment that saw the whole United Republic to react to the offensives of the Sicilian mafia. We still feel today and we feel that spirit of transversality and response to the constitutional political direction that helped the country to overcome brilliantly - today we can say this - one of the greatest challenges in its history. We trust in his stature as a constitutionalist, one of the most attentive scholars of the principles of reasonableness, proportionality and adequacy, to lead in the best way the reforms that justice and Italy absolutely need. The letter you read at the beginning of your speech is an appeal for this to be achieved. I hope that this will happen, Minister, because since I myself have been the victim of long justice, which has lasted more than ten years without having ever reported convictions at first instance, I can assure you and the entire Senate that they are bloody wounds, that they never close for a lifetime, so it is important that you, along with us, make sure that justice in Italy can be a just justice and that it can be close to the citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u14	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your report, which comes to the end of a very complicated year, which is very difficult for our country. There are many tensions, but much has also been the work done, with respect to which we give a recognition and thanks to his person. I greatly appreciated your determination to identify the task of us legislators, which will have to further strengthen the work on justice. There is no justice administered in the name of the people and in compliance with the law if full effectiveness is not guaranteed to the right of access to jurisdiction and the right of defence. It is this very close link between justice and rights that I shall speak briefly. Intellectual honesty leads us to recognize, unfortunately, that 2021 has not been a good year for rights and equality in this country. It was concluded with the shameful applause of a part of this House on the occasion of the sinking of the text against hate crimes and hate speech, a text which served only, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, to defend and stem those violent conducts and hate crimes, the same conducts and hate crimes which the Minister recalled in her report and which have fueled in history the worst atrocities, joining indifference, discrimination and the construction of the other as an enemy to be struck. 2021 was also a year of warnings, unfortunately unheard of by the Constitutional Court towards the legislator. Parliament is still, let us admit it, ladies and gentlemen. It stands firm on the end of life, it has remained absolutely indifferent to the appeal of the Constitutional Court in judgments no. 32 and 33, which asked for protection and equal dignity for children of rainbow families, different children, children punished only for the way they were born or only for parents they have. 2021 was, in short, the umpteenth year in which Parliament turned its back on so many, too many demands for recognition of equality and justice, because we could reorganize the justice service in the best possible way, but if the laws continue to be insufficient, if the judges continue to ask to replace the legislator, a deaf legislator, an inert legislator, and Parliament will continue to decide not to decide, the link between justice and rights will be increasingly weakened and increasingly unbalanced. 2021 was also the year in which the barbarism of male violence against women, especially in the family, intensified. I have found in the Minister's report a great deal of attention on this issue, a great deal of work also by the many people who work inside and outside Parliament to give dignity to these women who ask for help and above all to be heard. 2021 was also the year in which we read the chronicles of very hard moments of violence, such as the story of the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, which I quote as a pathological example of what, despite all the efforts, remains an emergency. On the state of our prisons, I acknowledge to you, Mrs Minister, a very strong attention, also in agreement and in support of the most guaranteeing part of this Parliament, which has never failed its work on this issue. In addition to what the Minister has said, just to demonstrate what you said, Mrs Minister, namely that the work was huge and how much work has been done, I would like to quote a few passages not mentioned in your report. I am thinking of the issue of children in prison, with the adoption of the decree to partake of the funds for the construction of protected family homes, allocated in the budget law of 2021, and also the renewal, for a further four years, of the Charter of the Rights of the Children of the Parents in Prison. You are right, Mrs. Minister, you must acknowledge that you have done a great deal on this too. Important advances, however, must be supported, monitored and put to the system in a modern prison context, with more staff, with differentiated paths and with a greater investment in work and school, in prison and outside. In my constant attention to the subject of prisons, I am guided by a very simple principle: the prisoner remains first and foremost a person, a person who is more valuable than his own responsibilities. This is taught by Article 27 of the Constitution, which provides that the re-education of the condemned does not only coincide with the maturation of the awareness of what has been done, but also and above all with the preparation for social reintegration. I would like to be very clear about that. It is necessary to guarantee the person in possession a quality of life, not only decent, as the Rotolo report says, but that he can allow the individual to take back life in all its aspects. I remember only one: the question of affection in prison. It is incardinated in the Commission justice a text that I ask this Senate not to forget. In the women's section of the Rebibbia prison we attended the inauguration of the Casina delle Affetti, realized by our colleague, Senator Renzo Piano, a place where people regain the dignity of their family relations. I shall conclude, Mr President, Mrs Minister, by reminding all of you and all of us that when a person enters prison suddenly a whole family enters prison. Ask yourself what happens to a mother, a wife, a son, the moment the man she loves, the woman she loves, enters prison. A nightmare of hours begins: the time when you can bring clean clothes, where you can pick up the dirty ones, the time when you can deliver the food. Think about who's being held outside the city he lives in. In taking care of affectivity in prison, I would also like to try to give a chance to improve the life of those who have a prisoner in the family, because these are families, not only deprived of affection, but forced to a path of daily bureaucracy very hard, which unfortunately the Covid-19 has increased. I am sure that we will find, on this too, a way to proceed in the best and always in the sign of Article 27 of our Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his report, for his approach to the issue of justice as a common good; for justice seen as a genuine democratic infrastructure, placed at the centre of this Government's attention and energy, knowing that the payment of the European Commission's funds for the PNRR is also subject to the approval of system reforms on which we have really spent. The maintenance of the whole system, however, has been severely tested by the health emergency and its overall repercussions. The subjects identified as responsible for keeping it, in particular lawyers and magistrates, were drawn from a necessity: that of adapting the performance of the activities to the new needs, to completely renewed needs, with the considerable commitment to safeguard in any case the role and function. We know that jurisdiction as a guarantee and balance instrument for conflict resolution has risked and is still in danger of being sacrificed. The report shows a clear vision of the whole; the reforms show a truly broad vision, necessary and functional to any proposal, especially the one with regard to the implementation of the delegated decrees to be adopted at this stage of governance and implementation. Account has been taken of the lack or in any case inadequate investment in human, structural and infrastructure resources, as is also evident in the report. The crisis of justice is a problem that, unfortunately, ignores the moment: it invests society, the civil community, to whose margins, once again, the protection of the person is relegated, especially if held, as has been widely documented, also taking into account the current conditions of the penitentiary institutions. Essential - in the exercise of jurisdiction - is the full development of the procedural confrontation, anchored to the guarantees and expression of rights not compressible, especially if referred to the weakest, the most fragile. I am thinking of the role of one of the protagonists, the lawyer from whom I come - also strong of the privilege of having had institutional representation in the past for a period of lawyering - who during these long and difficult months had to resist, but not always succeeding, the risk of a paralysis of judicial activity, which has strongly affected the indispensable expectations of protecting citizens. The lawyer had to suffer the consequences of measures that often did not feel that they had to consider to an appropriate extent the need for lawyers themselves to have secure access to judicial offices. An improvement in the organisation of justice came out of the reforms: the increase of the specific professionalism and skills of all the operators in the sector. A consideration is necessary, and it was pleased to see evidence of the contribution that the honorary judiciary provides to the exercise of jurisdiction, including the composition of the judicial councils themselves, the role and function of the lawyers who are part of it. The problems that have emerged from the analysis are clear: the quantity of litigation, the quality of decisions, the timing of judgment. By way of example, more than 30,000 civil appeals and 50,000 criminal appeals occur each year, a single quantity also in international legal experience. The quality of decisions is imposed by the role, the timing of judgement must be such as to make the overall duration of the process reasonable, as the Constitution requires, and the ECHR has repeatedly recalled that the timeliness and predictability of decisions contribute to bringing justice into line with the principles of the rule of law and a democratic system. Making these elements square - this is the challenge, which also has a very tight timing - is very complex and the current situation is extremely problematic for the incrustations of the past that have accumulated. The numbers are now more unstoppable than ever and this is reflected also on the other elements: the times of the civil process exceed the level of reasonableness, the quality of the measures is not always up to the role, the very often unaware contrasts are widespread and recurrent. All this depends on factors not only contingent, but structural, which can be read by a number of angles. As I said, the European Commission makes the payment of money in the justice system conditional on the approval of these system reforms and the implementation of them, so that the issue is really central and the reflections are broad in the field not only civil, but in all its variations; I am thinking of the economy, the family, the work, the many issues on the agenda of the debate - not only ours - on the difficulties of the country in all its vital ganglia. The reforms provide for a series of delegations to be exercised; the instruments of alternative dispute resolution with a new social culture towards ADRs (alternative dispute resolution) are being strengthened, which we have seen implemented especially in this pandemic phase. It welcomes the transition from an emerging phase to a structural phase of best practices and everything that has come out successfully; a tax incentive, therefore also rewarding, for mediation both civil and commercial, also intervening on the discipline of arbitration, including the inclusion of norms in the matter of corporate arbitration within the code of civil procedure. The same text brings with it a series of changes to the civil process of first degree to improve the efficiency of justice, intervening on the discipline of the appeal judgment, a real junction - as we have repeatedly documented - strengthening the filter of eligibility and simplifying the stage of investigation of the procedure. It is therefore possible for the court to propose the so-called reference for a preliminary ruling, i.e. to refer directly to the Court the resolution of a question of mere law on which the court has already raised the objection of the parties, provided that it is a completely new question, of particular importance and likely to arise in numerous judgments, a source of serious interpretative difficulties: it is seen as an extremely useful measure. The modification of the discipline of the executive process, enhancing the indirect coercion measures referred to in Article 614 bis of the Code of Civil Procedure, is another key element. With regard to expropriations, the possibility for the debtor to directly sell the foreclosed property at a price not lower than that indicated in the estimate: all fundamental elements impacting on the lives of families, workers and businesses. The reforms highlighted also introduce measures to reorder and implement the necessary provisions on the telematic civil process. I would also like to add on the processes now being made electronic and on the interoperability of these processes: an issue to be taken into account. One of the main tasks of the PNRR is precisely digitisation, with a considerable commitment to spending: it is a unique opportunity. There is therefore an intervention on the discipline of the Office for the trial, providing for the establishment of similar organisational structures, provided for by the Court of Cassation and its General Prosecutor; introducing a single rite applicable in all proceedings relating to the status of persons, minors and families; providing for the establishment of a court for persons, minors and families. In conclusion, many relationships have long been known that bind justice and economy; a justice that works by ensuring the implementation of contracts and protection of rights; that facilitates the life of trade; encourages investment and facilitates access to the credit market; promotes competition; increases - as will increase - the attractiveness of our country towards foreign investors. These are all the issues we are looking at on the basis of these reforms and on their implementation as a matter of priority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u17	He is registered to speak Senator Marco Pellegrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mrs Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to make a proper examination of the situation in Foggia and Province. The bombs of the last few days - nine in a very short period of time - have worried, indeed I would say shocked the national and international public opinion, while the local one has already been for many years. The open challenge to the state, the violent and ferocious, quasi-terrorist ways in which the Foggian mafias act are dismayed, deep fear and widespread social alarm. The media around the world have spoken about this, representing a dramatic situation, despite - I would like to point out - the constant and penetrating work carried out with great professionalism and sacrifice by the district judiciary, the prefecture and the staff of the Forces of the Order. I thank them all from the bottom of my heart. I can say this without fear of being denied: the reform of the judicial geography of 2012, at least as far as the Province of Foggia is concerned, has failed. It has failed completely with the suppression of the court and the attorney of Lucera and that of another six detached sections, in a territory that is larger than the entire Liguria that has four courts, greater than the Molise that has three courts and similar to Friuli, which has four courts. In such a territory, which has almost 700,000 inhabitants and includes large areas run by the presence of mafia clans, this suppression has created a funnel that prevents the rapid celebration of the processes. Nearly 13,000 of them are in the process of judgment. This figure, doubled compared to 2012, suffices to photograph the failure of the reorder and suppressions. Until the so-called reorder - let me photograph it this way - the trials were celebrated in seven other locations in the Province of Foggia; now instead with the concentration of all the offices in the Foggiana headquarters lack the classrooms, the spaces are insufficient, the offices burst. In short, despite the self-denial of the magistrates and administrative employees, which I thank, the judicial machinery cannot function at its best, indeed I would say that it is far from an acceptable operation. These dysfunctions and objective difficulties benefit criminal associations and pay the consequences for citizens, victims of crime and all legal practitioners. The suppressions of courts, of the detached sections and the amalgamation in the only seat of Foggia not only did not bring the benefits assumed by the legislator of 2012, but rather created a disaster in which everyone - indeed everyone - forgives us, except the criminals. Well, if this is the framework - and I challenge anyone to say otherwise - politics has a duty to take note of it and to give concrete answers. Otherwise the words of solidarity from all would remain words in the wind. I live in that territory and feel enormous responsibility on my shoulders, but we should all feel it and we should all feel the need to take drastic measures immediately. The National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, Dr. Cafiero de Raho, has repeatedly spoken of the situation in Foggia as a real national emergency. Well, since we are in an emergency situation that concerns the whole world, we must have the courage and the strength to take exceptional decisions, without being conditioned by the totem, by the moloc of the intangibility of the judicial geography or - for example - the current disposition and location of the State Police Commissariats. Specifically, like Movimento 5 Stars, we asked the minister of the interior to considerably strengthen the number of forces of order in the province and to elevate the Commissariats of San Severo and Cerignola to top-level structures. On the judicial side, we have long been calling for at least another court and at least one branch to be set up to cover the South and North areas of this extended Province. In addition, the Movimento 5 Star, at my first signature, has deposited, since August 2018, a bill for the establishment in Foggia of detached sections of the court of appeal of Bari, of the district direction anti-mafia (DDA) and of the court for minors. An analogous bill was presented to the Chamber in 2021 by my colleague Giuliano. The reasons are obvious and are widely illustrated in the report of my draft law, to which I refer and not repeat here only for reasons of time. Finally, in the mores of the desired approval of the bill, we strongly reiterate the request to physically transfer to Foggia the pool of magistrates of the DDA of Bari who are permanently and exclusively concerned with crimes of a mafia nature in that Province. This would make their work and that of the judicial police even more profitable because they would better guard the territory, avoiding waste of time to make the shuttle between Bari and Foggia. If these proposals, feasible and of common sense, are not followed by concrete acts on the part of those who have legislative, organizational and government responsibilities, it will mean that the beautiful and heartfelt words spoken in these days have been a mere empty and unbearable exercise of style. In that case the citizens of my wonderful and unfortunate province will judge us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u19	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u20	Mr President, Mrs Ministro, Mr Undersecretaries, esteemed and dear colleagues, I have listened very carefully to Mrs Ministro's report and I must say that it is largely acceptable. Of course, there are some distinctions that I will try to make. On the contrary, I believe that, having little time available, I will also take the time of the explanation of vote to talk about the content, which I should have dealt with in general discussion. The issue of justice is so varied and sensitive in this period that we would necessarily need more time to tackle in a correct and comprehensive way the major issues that unfortunately afflict this sector. It is clear that the area of justice - you, Minister, have put it very well - needs a thorough review, for everything that is happening and has happened in recent years. We know what very harmful consequences have resulted to our country from a not optimal management of the sector, especially in recent years. The letter you have read, certainly touching in its tragicity, is but one of the deviant aspects of our system. Think of that person who unfortunately decided to take his own life after having faced a trial that lasted ten years, concluded with an acquittal at first instance and a condemnation in second degree; ten years in which the life not only of an individual, but of an entire family, was ruined by such events. I would also like to recall something that happened here in this House when, in the last parliamentary term, we probably put our hands on the life of an individual and his family and on his political career, authorizing an arrest here. And then, after five years of trial and two and a half years in prison, he was acquitted because the fact did not exist. Here, these are the issues that we should consider. With regard to what I was talking about earlier, we cannot fail to stress the need to put hand and to remedy also the fact of the appellability of the absolute judgment of first instance, because, if it is true that the condemnation must arrive when there is certainty beyond any reasonable doubt, we do not understand why, if a magistrate with his competences has come to the conclusion that a person is innocent, there must be the possibility of taking the whole matter back in hand. Is it necessary to look for someone who reads the story differently? Those who attend courtrooms know perfectly well that any affair has two different faces. Well, you have to stick to one. And we believe in the preparation of our judiciary. I always say that, as a lawyer, I must continue to have extreme confidence in the judiciary, because otherwise I could not be a lawyer; I would rather go to the tobacco store and buy a SuperEnalotto schedule. Instead, I entrust myself to the judiciary, knowing the preparation and the very high level that we have; but the system needs to be changed. In this sense, I must say that we have obviously been dealing for years with the chronic delays in defining the timing of the process. The citizens of Europe expect a lot in this respect, and it is clear that they expect a lot. Unfortunately, we have not been able to give them a concrete and comprehensive answer for years. We're probably laying the groundwork in the right way. Probably, but I do not know, because I have said repeatedly that, although I did not share some parts of the civil and criminal reforms, they certainly constitute a good starting point. Then - as we say in Sardinia - the load is fixed on the way. It is an old Sardinian proverb and popular wisdom sometimes also helps in everyday life. You'll probably need to get your hands on some things. I spoke a moment ago about the nickname of first-degree absolute judgments, to name just one. If I may, Minister, because, because of the age that is now passing, I would not like to see Forget about it. You mentioned the Reni case. I would like to open a very quick parenthesis: I think it is necessary for the Ministry to deal a little more effectively with the case of Chico Forti, which is now a well-known fact that must be dealt with in a determined way, because we must bring home a person who has evidently been the victim of a judicial error. There has been talk of a shortage of staff, a shortage of adequate space and human and instrumental resources. There is a lot to be done in all three areas. We repeat that the biggest problems that will have to be addressed will be the lack of human resources (magistrates and administrative staff). I have to say that a path has been set in motion, but I would like to point out that that path had been initiated by Minister Orlando, who had finally reopened the competitions in the judiciary and had also initiated competition procedures for administrative staff. I would also like to stress something else: this is not enough because, as long as there is no certainty of the complete staff, we will not have the opportunity to have justice in certain and determined times. This is something we need to deal with immediately. I believe that a great deal has already been done and well has been done by Mrs Minister to point out that a 500-seat competition has recently been launched. I must also say that the results are certainly not encouraging, at least for what we hear; they seem to be not very encouraging, but in my opinion we must insist on that path. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u21	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues, I have listened very carefully to the report and I am speaking on a specific aspect to which you, Minister, have devoted about a minute and a half, I would say very little. I am referring to Part 5.4 on family and child rights. In the written text of your report and in your speech here in this House you have dealt with the many cases of violence against women and children, a growing dispute in family relations. Instead, speaking in this Chamber, he did not mention - in the written text yes - the feminicides, which unfortunately in 2021 were 109; they are not numbers, but they are women killed, often mothers. It's a war bulletin. I come back to the issue of family and children's rights, on which you yourself rightly pointed out that insufficient coordination between the authorities involved reduces the possibility of guessing and preventing the consequences, even fatal ones, and called for a thorough reform of procedures and judicial organisation. Minister, you also mentioned - and this is the main subject of my speech - a draft law adopted at the Council of Ministers in early December, which rightly enjoyed - thanks to a press conference in the presence of all the Ministre and President Draghi sitting in the front row in the audience - a wide press review. It is precisely that bill that aims to strengthen the prevention tools also to complement what is already provided for in the code red, which we have also voted on but which in the application has shown to require some adjustment. Moreover, there is also a vulnus, a hole, in the reform of the criminal trial - as denounced in December by the prosecutor of Tivoli - compared to what happens when the person who violates the prohibition of approaching the places of attendance of the victim stops. Maybe the day after the arrest is tried for direct, but is released in condition as much as harm to the victim. That bill of yours, with eleven articles if I am not mistaken, also filled this aspect that is neither marginal nor banal. Minister, then, we wonder whether this important regulatory framework, which you approved in early December, and which also improves aspects of the reform of the criminal process, because it contains stringent measures to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence, has been boiled down. We couldn't find out. Where did he stop? Where are we? You know better than I do that this measure contains very important rules and I mention only a few: greater use of the electronic bracelet, immediate detention in the presence of a serious risk to women, strengthening of the compulsory arrest in flagrante for those who violate the above-mentioned prohibition of approach to the victim, in order to prevent more effectively the risk of repeated violent conduct; moreover, outside the arrest in flagrante of crime the precautionary measures can be applied. Mr. Minister, where has this bill gone? The node is - you have said it and you know it, but unfortunately we all know it, for the cases of news - that we must strengthen the compulsory arrest in flagency, in order to avoid what we said, that is, the trial by very direct and the release easy, with the release in freedom of the perpetrators of violence. The questions to be asked are: why did this bill not come to Parliament? Why has the evidence of this emergent and dramatic phenomenon not taken place? Why didn't the government want to issue a decree-law instead of a bill, which it notoriously postpones over time? However, if you have done so, you must bring it to the House as soon as possible: we want to discuss it, analyse it and approve it. We do not divide ourselves on these matters, but we must avoid making press conferences that are not followed by facts, because we cannot afford any vacuum, normative or temporal, when people's lives are at stake every day, as you yourself mentioned. [[Applause]] There is no time to waste: don't waste time! You mentioned Paolo Borsellino and I would like to remind you, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, that today Paolo Borsellino is the date of his birth. It is therefore a kind of birthday: honor to him and his memory. Minister, please, you have now chosen the long way of the bill, rather than the way of a decree-law. But make this path as short as possible, take it now, before anything else, because it serves the daily lives of many women, who are in danger. Mr. Minister, the best aren't the ones who say... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] The best are the ones who do what they say. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have indeed shared your report, which shows the work that the Ministry and Parliament have done this year. This is an important job, which has put in place reforms necessary for the country: first of all for the country and for the citizens. Certainly much remains to be done, but the choices made on the civil process and the criminal process are positive and important and are not limited - as you rightly mentioned in the report - to intervening on the speed of the processes, also acting on the quality of the processes and the law. There are, in the report and in the work we have done this year, some issues that we are keen to stress, and of course we agree with the approach. The first is certainly the choice to intervene a lot on the organization of justice. The investment, also allowed by the PNRR, on the organisation, on digitisation, on the infrastructures of justice is decisive and fundamental. Recruitment for the Office of the Process, together with the promotion and encouragement of the use of alternative instruments to disputes, in particular civil mediation, are decisive choices to improve. The second question concerns criminal matters. I want to stress something that is of great importance to us: with these reforms we start to reverse a trend, we get out of the logic of throwing away the keys, we try to return to the Constitution. Beyond and beyond the just decriminalization of Bagatellar crimes, it is important that, in practice, the principle is established that prison is not the only choice to sanction crimes. The rule of reform of the criminal trial and, even more so, the report insists on alternative penalties, testing, compensation. That's right. These are the tools to recover the rehabilitation function of the sentence. We know that, in order to go this way, we need further investment, recruitment in the treatment areas, recognition of professionalism. We need rules in practice and, in order to do so, I think it is necessary to put early among the priorities, not only of the Ministry, this chapter, that of the instruments in order to be able to extend the use of alternative penalties. Among other things, I continue to think that this is the main way to overcome the emergency, which you, Minister, stressed, of the prison overpopulation. It is clear, however, that measures must be taken, perhaps even in the short term. We wonder, Minister, if it is not useful to think of an extension beyond 31 March and beyond the end of the emergency of the measures we have put in place to reduce the inconveniences within the prison because of the Covid-19. As a third question, Mr President-in-Office, you have begun to reflect, for us of extraordinary importance, on the justice of reparations. It is a reflection that puts the victims, often forgotten, at the centre and puts the guilty in front of their responsibilities. On this too, I hope that we can quickly go beyond the theory or the episodic experiments, in order to put the activation of this instrument to the ground. It is not a criticism, on the contrary: there is recognition of an important reflection which, as soon as possible, must produce solutions. Finally, recent judgments by the Constitutional Court and the European Courts lead Parliament to the need to legislate on the subject of Article 4-a of the prison order on life imprisonment. It is not and cannot be thought of weakening the instruments of fighting the Mafia, but one cannot deny the possibility that a person, after thirty years in prison, will change. The reform of Article 4-a of the penitentiary order and of life imprisonment for us must move in this narrow space: to ensure the rigour to prevent those who have not broken the threads with the mafias from having any benefit, but, on the other hand, to put the state in a position to recognize the change. In conclusion, Madam Minister, this year's experience shows that, if one is on merit and comes out of ideological oppositions, even on justice, reforms can be done, not against someone, but in the interests of citizens and the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u25	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u26	Madam Minister, your report is not only timely, it is even pointy, and I thank you for that. I think that the detailed proposals in the report should be supported and helped, and that is what we are putting aside. What I want to emphasise, for the future and not to look back, is the need for the reforms that are lacking and which - in our opinion - have been essential for thirty years. That of the relationship between justice and citizens is not only a question of efficiency, which was already not there - and in this sense we thank you if you can put the machine in motion, which will not be very simple, nor will it happen tomorrow morning - but it is also a question of effectiveness. You mentioned the issue of trust. We live at a time when citizens do not have confidence in justice, they are very afraid of it and think - rightly and in many cases - that, if they happen to end up in one of the jerseys of justice, they find themselves in a Kafki tunnel from which they no longer leave, with a whole series of reputational, family and emotional damages that no one will ever pay back, and I repeat: no one will ever pay back. On the issue of prisons you spoke of overcrowding, you gave the figures, which - alas - I share with my friend Rita Bernardini. To what you said, I would like to add another fact that impresses me: if I understood correctly, in the face of the contagions, which exceed 100 in Turin, Naples, Florence and so on, there are 1,646 operators currently positive, so we are in a situation that will require not only the implementation of the commitments you have made and the reforms you have undertaken, but perhaps also some emergency intervention. In any case, I am focusing on what - in my opinion and in the opinion of other colleagues - has been missing for thirty years and, if you think that you can deal with the issues that I will now list with everyone's agreement, you are wrong, that is not the case. I am referring, of course, to the issues relating to the separation of careers - for example - the civil liability of magistrates, the compulsory prosecution; in short, the fundamental problems created long before you arrived, but which I think will be very difficult for you to try to unravel. Every day the citizens hear one: yesterday was the great confrontation - it will be great institutionally speaking - between the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Council of State. The story of the MSC is, for anyone, truly unbecoming and I think this is one of the reasons for the distrust of citizens, which I feel palpable, because between this and the real judicial errors nobody wants, of course, to end up in the hands of justice. These issues, which the majority cannot address, will be the subject of the referendums requested by the Regional Councils and part of the signatures of the transnational party. I think you should live this - personally, I will do my duty and vote yes - as a contribution and support to you, otherwise we are not going anywhere. They have been divisive for thirty years and, if we want to overcome them in one way or another, do not expect to find a large majority, because that will not be the case at all. Finally, I think that in the construction of this whole affair, the possibility of decriminalization of minor crimes is also an important road; in particular, I am thinking of the legalization of cannabis. A third of the prisoners are detained not for drugs, heroin, mafia or what, but for small cannabis dealing - for example - and therefore it is not really necessary for them to be in prisons. Instead of thinking - as you have reminded us - about alternative penalties, this Parliament is always trying to aggravate penalties, to invent new crimes, as if that were not enough. It's not exactly how I see it and how we see it. It will also have a rather difficult year ahead of it with regard to Europe and the reforms they expect. I hope that the referendums on the issues I have highlighted will go as I wished and give you the strength, at last, to address some of the fundamental issues that have blocked justice over the past thirty years. I also hope that you will find the strength and will, past these complicated days, to publicly express itself - for example - on the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It is not conceivable that on what is happening - with Palamara and, finally, the clash with the Council of State - there is no clear answer from political authority. If this is not the case, then we will not be able to complain about the fact that the judiciary enters the political sphere, because there is no vacuum in politics or in personal life: if we create a vacuum, someone fills it and we already know how it could end. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u27	President. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u28	Mr Minister, your report has been timely and intelligent. It shows that you are a person who is used to studying and deepening things, as you understand from your speeches during your term of office. We came out of the terraplattism of some time ago, of some previous government, of some ministers who preceded it and finally entered a new era. That's what we have to tell ourselves. We have entered a Copernican era: we have discovered that it is the land that revolves around the sun and we have returned to speak in a proper way of law and of problems that afflict this country and are of fundamental importance within it. Europe has imposed reforms on us in the face of loans that would otherwise not come. You, rightly, can include, as obtained and concrete results, the law of delegation on the reform of the civil and criminal process and the legislative decree on the crisis of enterprise, which introduces innovations from the point of view of negotiation and perhaps avoids unnecessary bankruptcy procedures. It has achieved these objectives through study committees, with a broad comparison in Parliament, with a large majority, with a complicated majority. We live in an age of complexity: trivializations are easy, while complexity is difficult, and we need to look for complexity to improve ourselves. I realize that the work has been a lot. Rightly, as Mrs Modena said this morning, it has produced a great deal at this time, this year and a half. I have a fairly short and labile memory, which betrays me easily, but there are many points that he has touched and of which he should be proud. One of these is the trial office. You were a constitutional judge, so you have a typical view of who is a constitutional judge compared to what may be the function of the trial office. I believe, however, that this institution is a little difficult to think about in the courts. I imagine that the honorary judges will be those who write the judgments for the togati judges: I would not like it to be so, but, in fact, in part it is so. We are in a country where there is a backward or a slope of about 4 million trials (more than 3 million civil trials and over a million criminal trials in the first degree); we have a frightening backwardness and 270,000 lawyers, whose income is less than 50,000 euros for 80% (these are data of the Censis, so they are an example of social welfare of which we must begin to reason), against about 9,000 ordinary judges, as you reminded us this morning. Yet, the problems of justice, even compared to what the previous speaker said, in an intervention of an absolutely political level, are always the same are enormous, gigantic, in this country. With regard to these, it is true that we can also think of reducing the duration of the criminal trial by 25% and that of the civil trial by 40%, but these are solutions to which I do not believe. The complexity - and not the complexity - of our legislative system prevents it from being able to comply with what Europe tells us. It is only by eliminating a hearing referred to in Article 183 of the Code of Civil Procedure or by not making a hearing to clarify the conclusions that we have solved the problem of the duration of the civil trial. It is not that in the criminal process we solve the problem, if we do not deal with the problems of the funnel of the second degree of judgment. There the solution is very simple and Professor Lattanzi himself gave it to him, in the report accompanying the reform in the matter of trial and penal sanctioning system, i.e. the unappellability of the judgments of first-degree dismissal. [[Applause]] This is what Italy's colleague Viva said this morning. The judgments of acquittal of first instance, in the Anglo-Saxon countries and according to more civilized and tried systems, are not appealable, except the arrival of new facts, except what we can do: that is, except, as it suggests part of the report that you have rightly favored, a possible revision of legitimacy, entrusted to the Court of Cassation, pursuant to Article 606 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that we can hold as an example of temperament of the principle of non-appellability of the sentences of acquigliamento. The second degree of judgment is permitted in view of the fact that a sentenced person is entitled to a review of his conviction, of his/her fact. This is the principle behind all international treaties, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Minister, other people are distracting you right now - I imagine for far more important reasons than mine - but that is the subject, and you know it very well. He knows perfectly well that there is no second degree of judgment, of appeal for the public prosecutor, because it does not come from Article 112 of the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court clarified it in 2020, in a judgment of which you too are a party, in which it has been clarified - even hoped - that the function of the public prosecutor is no longer that of Cerbero of legality, as some academic jurist has said, but of the one who, as a private part of the trial, is placed on the same level as the accused. I forgot a few parts of my speech, but I was invited to conclude. First, however, I must draw the attention of this House, because exactly twenty-one years ago, just today, he died at Hammamet Bettino Craxi, I say exile. Since we are talking about justice today, I remember that we have not yet solved that important page of justice. [[Applause]] which was the story of Tangentopoli and which was also the recent story of the one who committed suicide at the end of last year, Burzi. On the contrary, we prefer to dwell on purely technical issues, because, yes, those are said to be of interest to the country. I don't think so. Let us think about the real, important issues, such as the mandatory prosecution: the prosecutor has an obligation to prosecute. But when? It is nine words that have destroyed justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u29	Comrade, you need to close.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u30	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). The exercise of jurisdiction is absolutely discretionary. In thanking everyone and you, Minister, of course, I can only renew my personal conviction that your work has been an important one and I invite you to continue with the same seriousness and concreteness in the work you are doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u31	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u32	Minister, it was a pleasure to hear your report in this House. In this year a good job has been done, and, however, a big piece of road still remains to be done. Minister, you opened your report with a letter you wanted to read to this House; it was important, we appreciated it, so as never to forget that justice is a very deep cord in the heart of every human being, and we are called to that desire for justice, each in his role and in his task, to give satisfaction. You have noted the need to intervene urgently in the face of the latest disturbing facts of judicial reporting, which have undermined confidence in the judiciary. He spoke in his report of the need to re-separate citizens' confidence in the judiciary; I could not agree more. A reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is needed and we need to intervene on each of those issues that the political force I represent today has presented to the public as referenda: the appeal of the PM, the responsibility of the magistrates, the separation of careers and the reform of the MSM. Quis custodiet custodias? Today it is more essential than ever that this question be asked and it is equally essential to find an answer. I do not want to forget what you said about the need to intervene on prison facilities, on support for men and women in the prison police. I would also like to mention, Minister, the need to review - and do so as soon as possible - certain aspects of emergency legislation, which restrict - in some cases even severely - the right to defence and to conflict. I believe that we can now decide to go beyond those limits. There are aspects, which you have particularly enucleated, concerning the reform of the family process. We worked together on the reform of the family process and I believe that the work that came out of it is good, interesting and with good prospects. You have rightly started this issue by talking about feminicide, but let me tell you, Minister, that feminicide is not family law, but criminal law: it is another thing. She read a letter; I would like to read more in my turn, starting with that of Luigi, a father of Naples, who writes to me: Good morning, Senator, I've been facing a ten-year battle against false stalking and ill-treatment charges. I've been tried two times. I've both been acquitted. The court had arranged a common trust, but the Court of Appeal imposed exclusive custody, despite having passed two technical advice for the evaluation of my parental ability. If you can help me, I'd appreciate it. A broken dad. 23 June 2021 is replaced by the following: Then there is that of Stephen, a father of Nuoro, who writes to me: Forgive me if I address you, but I have not seen my son for almost a year. Is it possible that a mother with a four-year-old son disappears from the face of the Earth? The child was taken to Belarus by his mother and, although the local court ordered the return, under the Hague Convention, the mother opposes and nobody does anything. Please help me. Francesco, a father of Prato, writes to me: Good morning, Senator. I'd like to talk to you. I'm a separate dad. I got a punitive sentence. I just want to see my son more often, but now I can only see him one day a week. I'd like to pay the right money to keep it and not a crazy maintenance. I'm gonna have to sleep in the car, 'cause I can't have a house for rent anymore. Please call me. Then there is Anna, a grandmother of Milan: "Good morning, Senator, I'm a grandmother who doesn't see her granddaughter - she lives 500 meters from my house - for months now and even my son can't be with her three-year-old, despite the court order. After months and months of unnecessary trials, the money is over and my son is desperate and distrusted, he no longer knows what to do and I am very worried. Please, Senator, help us. These are stories of life lived, they are facts; we, in the face of these facts, have tried, with the reform of the civil process, to give some response, but until we intervene with a trust really shared and with a training of magistrates, lawyers and other operators who are really respectful of the shared trust we will not get out of this cul-de-sac. Mr. Minister, it is appropriate to avoid in the process of family logic of opposition between mom and dad, between husband and wife; it is not to be nourished the intrafamily conflict, but promoted a logic of alliance, not of demonization of the other, otherwise it will always be the children to pay for it. You said words that I feel like sharing and signing, as well as with the pen, even with the heart. He said that justice does not feed on hatred, but seeks the truth and the care of relationships. Justice must be able to unite, rather than divide: this is all the more true in the family process, which is still controversial today and cannot be a child of ideologies. Please, Minister, I repeat: feminicide is criminal law, it is another thing; the civil process and the family process must not be the result of mutual demonisation. There are other issues, Minister, which concern us, because they always impact on the weakest, the most fragile and our children. What happens in an abuse of the family process also happens in other areas. We have already spoken, with the letter that I read before, of the international abduction of minors, a plague that unfortunately does not mention stopping in Italy. It is necessary to intervene and support these parents, who are not always dangerous and paternalistic males or - worse still - patriarchal, but very often they are mothers, who have suffered the subtraction of their child, often brought by fathers in Islamic countries. We must intervene and, possibly even with legal aid, support the immense legal costs that must be incurred abroad. Faced with all this international framework, we have noted with concern the advance of a creative jurisprudence, which, despite the clear and precise arrests of the Supreme Court of Cassation in united sections and of the Constitutional Court, with the judgment n. 33 of 2021, pushes for the indirect legitimacy of a barbaric practice, unacceptable, unworthy of a civilized country and contrary to any form of dignity of women. I'm talking about the uterus for rent. We cannot legitimize, either ex ante or, worse still, ex post, a practice that exposes the woman to be considered less than a living incubator. We cannot allow children to be bought on the Internet, to be selected from the catalog according to the physical characteristics of their parent and then bought and brought to Italy underground, legitimizing all later with the beautiful sentence of a court complacent. We need, Minister, an international moratorium on the uterus for rent. We need the uterus for rent to be recognised by our country as a universal offense. It's not like that today. Today the conduct of those who resort to the practice of the uterus rented abroad is not punished, because it does not fall among the criminal offences, if committed abroad. There are many other issues I would like to address. A bill already passed in the Senate is being examined in the House to prevent self-harm and turn self-harm into a crime. Today this is not the case: our children and our children, who are also complicit in distance learning (DAD) and the use of computers and devices, are now exposed to attacks ranging from incitement to child pornography, to incitement to self-harm, in short, to absolute dangers for their safety. We must also intervene on this. We cannot remain silent. I conclude, Minister, by urging you to move forward: as I said, much has been done, but much still needs to be done; with its management, however, we trust that we can really improve things for the future of our children, our young people and our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u34	Mr President, Senators, Government, Education should instill the idea that humanity is one family with common interests. As a result, collaboration is more important than competition. With these words of the English philosopher and mathematician Russell I open my speech here today to underline and invite all those present to reflect on the importance of sharing intentions to achieve important results. The government of which we are part was born in an exceptional situation and united under the same roof a plurality of subjects with beliefs and ideas very distant from each other, sometimes antithetical. He did so in the name of the emergency management in which we are all involved and also to ensure the implementation of the reforms indispensable for the good of the country. The results achieved would have been impossible if there had been no joint will to overcome the conflicts in order to arrive at shared solutions. Emergency government does not mean, however, that the choices and decisions made have been hasty and superficial. On the contrary, it was important to work hard and carefully in the search for medium-sized solutions that all agreed in the name of the highest public interest. I witnessed this modus operandi in the long parliamentary work, in order to reach the approval of the reform of justice, which I personally followed as the Head of the Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Justice Commission. That is why I thank Minister Cartabia, who has been able to reconcile the various demands of political forces. I would also like to thank my colleagues, who have shown that they are able to put aside differences in order to exploit the common objectives. The reforms of the civil process and of the criminal process have allowed us to take virtuous paths to speed up the times of justice and thus give Italy competitiveness and guarantees to the citizens. It has chosen to invest in human resources, continuing on the path outlined by the Government Count II, strengthening the staff and investing substantial resources in the most important innovation, constituted by the new office of the process. Thousands of young lawyers have been selected to be assigned to the judicial offices in support of the work of the judges; many others will continue to be chosen through the forthcoming public competitions. There have been recruitments of new judges and new officials. Moreover, this year we can finally say that we have started the stabilisation of thousands of honorary magistrates, who have for years served their indispensable service without the most basic work protections, such as sickness, maternity or vacation. With the reform of the civil process, the aim has been to enhance and improve alternative dispute resolution tools (the so-called ADRs, Alternative dispute resolution) in order to reduce the burden of courts and to encourage consensual conflict resolution solutions. Important tax incentives for such procedures have been designed as a stimulus to greater use and for the poor has been guaranteed legal aid at the expense of the State also for out-of-court procedures. The introduction of the new family court was an urgent response to the pressing problem of too many cases of violence against children and women. As part of the criminal trial, the reform law has focused on actions aimed at reducing cases of recourse to prison as the only punitive solution, focusing on alternative measures to the penalty such as the suspension of the procedure with the trial of the accused, who has given excellent results in the juvenile criminal system since 2015. Reparative justice has been introduced in every state and degree of the proceedings, in the belief that it can ensure a remedy for the offense and greater attention to the victims. As for the prescription, which has always been a topic to which the Movimento 5 Stars has devoted a lot of attention, the 2019 reform has been confirmed, which blocks its course after the first degree judgment. The correction of impeccability, thought by the Government and initially inadmissible by the Movimento 5 Stars, was finally accepted, precisely because once again the path of mediation was chosen and the result was the result of a meeting point. An obligatory passage is that on the situation of the prison structures, which was exasperated by the pandemic. I fully agree with what Minister Cartabia said in her report, and I believe that it is essential to act with considerable investment to restore dignity to prisoners and solve old problems such as overcrowding, but also to finally put in place measures of psychological support and specialized training for all personnel and, above all, for the prison police. The issue of mental health in prison is essential to ensure that the penalty complies with the dictates of our Constitutional Charter. What I note with regret, however, is that in your report, Mr Cartabia, you did not in any way mention the need to intervene with a reform of judicial geography. That is why, in conclusion, I would like to draw attention to this issue. The reform of the judicial geography of 2012, as is well known, has operated a radical reduction in the judicial offices. The criticism of the operators in the sector has long exceeded the positive comments and, after almost ten years, the anticipated advantages in terms of the containment of public expenditure and rationalization of offices have not borne fruit. The cost of this, in the name of saving, was to respect the principle of proximity and the principle of equality in access to rights protection. In practice, in many territories, as a result of the reduction in public expenditure, there has been an impoverishment in terms of community services and an increase in user charges. Think of all those situations that are difficult to connect due, for example, to the lack of public transport or infrastructure; think of the internal areas, Minister, which pay for the distance from the large urban centres and in terms of distance from the services. Added to this is the situation of many territories. I would like to recall in this House a unique case in Italy, which, in my opinion, requires even more urgent intervention, that of the suppressed court of Sala Consilina, the historic court of Vallo di Diano, in the Province of Salerno, which has two negative records: it is the only court that has been merged to a smaller court both in terms of workload and in terms of employees; and it is the only court that has been merged with that of another Region (of Lagonegro, in Basilicata). The consequence is that citizens and operators of the sector are forced to go from one region to another, i.e. from Campania to Basilicata. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the competent court of appeal is that of Potenza, rather than Salerno. I should like to conclude by expressing my deepest hope that the subject described will not go into the background and that we will find the way and the time to deal with it as soon as possible. That is what the citizens and operators of this sector are calling for, and I would like to join them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u35	The debate is closed. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators, No 2 by Senators Lannotti, Giannuzzi, Lezzi, Moronese, Angrisani, Abate, Mininno, La Mura, Corrado, Dessì and Morra, and No 3, by Senators Gaudiano, Pillon, Mirabelli, Caliendo, Cucca, Grasso and Unterberger, whose texts are distributed. As you know, according to Senators Quaestors, we now suspend work on sanitization. The Minister's reply will take place at the reopening, at 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.02 p.m. and resumed at 13.03 p.m.) The session is resumed. I call on the Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators and senators first of all for their patience in listening to the long presentation of the introductory report, for the very rich debate that followed it, and also for the words of appreciation, not so much for me, but for the work that has been done, which in my opinion is very close to important results, which are returning to bringing justice to the centre of public debate, as it must be. In these replies (even in order not to get rebuked by Senator Bonino, who told me that she had been too punctilious), I thought to group some observations around four major issues, then I reserve the right to examine, if necessary, individual aspects that have been pointed out, even with comparisons that require a more specific investigation. Many interventions (those of Senators Zaffini, Cirinna, Piarulli, among others), in different directions and highlighting different aspects, focused on prison and it is not a random fact, because it is really one of the emergencies that are being imposed in an increasingly evident way in our country. What I can say, first of all, is that this is certainly not a novelty: it has always been the subject of my attention, but it will be even more so in the coming months. I would like to give this emergency a very high priority. There is a possible misunderstanding that I would like to resolve and on which I really want to respond. I am referring to the remark that has highlighted my lack of attention to certain aspects of prison life in favour of others. I reply, first of all, with a few words that I used in the report and that perhaps they are the most evident testimony of what is a deep conviction for me and that, that is, there cannot be an attitude that contrasts the needs of the prisoners with those of the prison police and the other staff who work there. We have said this and you have repeated it in so many: every improvement of life within the prison houses and in prison in general makes life more dignified than everyone, relieves tensions, lowers the frictional reasons that can exist. Everyone asks convergently - it is no coincidence - to increase, for example, the forms of video surveillance and body cam: it gives greater security to the prisoners, but also to the prison police, who carry out their work in a simpler way. I do not think there is any possibility of splitting the two profiles and that we must learn to overcome the logic of opposing opposites. I would like to take up a page that perhaps I have not read in full in my previous speech: it is a few lines, Senator Bonino, I will not be too long. The prison police carry out a complex and very delicate task, in my eyes still too little known. In addition to the exercise of the traditional function of supervision and custody, the prison police are daily close to the prisoner and must be supported by adequate and constant training. In these months I have collected many testimonies that tell how decisive the presence of an agent has been to mark a turning point in the life of a prisoner. Last week I was in a juvenile prison in Milan, where a book was presented - for those interested, it is titled "I was a bully" - that told the story of a boy, of a young man on the outskirts, with a criminal past between juvenile prison and re-education in community. It is a story of those in which it is confirmed that our Constituents did not only have visions; one of those success stories that then led him to graduate and become himself educator for his companions. Well, in that story one of the decisive roles, not the only one, was that of the brigadier who had him work in prison, with a solidity, a firmness and an accompanying ability that allowed this boy a turning point. All this to say that in prison there is not an approach that can only be synergistically attentive to all those who in that place, with different roles and purposes, live together in fact every day. The issue of health that has been put to the attention - there are very many infections at the moment - is confirmation of this. We cannot only treat the prisoner or just the policeman: it is clear that all this must be carried out in a unified manner. The attention to the prison police in these times has manifested itself with what has been considered by all the first urgency, that of the new recruitments. I have numbers here, but I do not want to take advantage of your time, you will find them in the report: there are really many thousands of new units that are about to enter the service or that will be hired with the new competitions just unlocked. On 23 December, moreover, a new contract was signed for the entire defence sector, including the Prison Police, with a renewal that concerns not only some economic aspects, but the regulatory system as a whole, as did not really happen for a long time. It is not acceptable to have an approach to prison that contrasts prisoners and staff who work with them. Together we must advance this important aspect of our republican life towards the only objective, which is the one indicated by the Constitution. As for Senator Cirinna's remarks about the aspect of affection, it is true that there is so much to do. Something has been done, however, especially for young prisoners, for whom the need to prepare spaces within juvenile institutions has been foreseen, areas equipped to reproduce an environment as similar as possible to the family one. Another important aspect in my opinion and to which I very much care is that, where there are no particular reasons for security, the principle of territoriality is respected: being able to serve the sentence in places geographically closest to where there are affections is a very important contribution to be able to feed those relationships that support the path of those who are trying to re-education. Still many other interventions have touched on the issue of prison. To Senator Mirabelli I would just like to reply that there is an exponential increase in the number of subjects put to the test: 24.378 at 31 December, while in 2015 there were 6.557. There is also a continuous increase of places available for public works for the many conventions that we are entering into with different public and private subjects. One of the last ones I signed was an important convention with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, with which we have provided for the possibility of allocating to public works useful people who have to serve their sentence or test them in all structures of cultural goods, museums or archives, perhaps in digitalization works. Obviously these solutions give great relief to our administrations, because where there is a shortage of resources this is also a possibility to carry out projects otherwise difficult, but it is also a possibility to introduce a new concept of criminal law, in which it is significant that we should not necessarily carry out in degraded environments, but on the contrary in the places that our Republic takes into greater consideration. As far as violence against women is concerned, Senator Pillon is right when he says that it has nothing to do with family law, but there is a connection, because many times in the separation processes or that concern the family emerge elements of context and the problem I was pointing out only to say that there must be connections between the advancing authorities. The issue of violence against women has been highlighted by Senator Cirinna and Senator Rauti and we know that it is an emergency that really does not tend to decline and takes away our sleep, so it becomes important and serious. The draft law, adopted at the end of November last by the Council of Ministers, has an important purpose and has been the result of very intense work between the various ministries responsible. It wants to go hand in hand with the Red Code, which was already a very significant legislation for our country, to complete one aspect: to prevent cases of violence and feminicide in good time. We cannot just have repressive and punitive measures. Those violent actions must be stopped. From here, as was illustrated by Senator Rauti, the use of the electronic bracelet, but also the increased use of the arrest warrant, which is normally used for other purposes, only where there is the danger of escape, compulsory arrest and the necessary connection with the other rules of the criminal trial; but we are also studying an app that allows women to protect themselves in connection with the anti-violence centers. There is a great deal of work in this regard. Compared to the question of where the bill ended, I have made my own checks: it is at the boiling of the State Accounting, which I will of course urge for it to arrive as soon as possible. I can imagine that the dates coincided with the great commitment on the budget, but now it is time to unblock this important bill to allow Parliament to carry it out. Foggia is a very serious case, not just for the nine bombs these days. Foggia has been at the centre of everyone's concerns for several years, for the number and barbarity of what is happening in that land. I visited Foggia on 13 October and, during this visit, I met the judicial authorities, also at a meeting to raise awareness in universities. This is important. It is important that we speak, that the population is not afraid to look into the face of what is there. I also met the two Luciani widows, the widows of the massacre of San Marco in Lamis, and the entrepreneurs subject to the racket. On the specific point emphasized, it is the subject of work and I must say that it has been a solicitation of the Undersecretary Macina, in recent weeks, to try to identify some premises in Foggia, so that that pool of Bari that is working on the case (and that remains under Bari's Court of Appeal, in the sense that a new judicial office is not created) can be locally present right there. This is a signal that I have been asked by various actors and protagonists of that land, as a physical signal of the presence of the State. It is not, therefore, a reorganization of judicial geography for that specific situation, but rather to provide physical premises to mark the presence of the State and of justice in a land that, at this moment, is the one where the most heinous and resounding facts take place. This links me, however, to other interventions, by Senator Gaudiano but also by others, who have written to me from various parts, in order to reflect on judicial geography. An organic intervention, we know, was done ten years ago. At this moment they are coming, after a few years of experimentation, reports of various places where that rationalization design has manifested some criticalities and I am favorable to take it back in hand as organic design. Of course, we are well aware that in the coming months we are on the verge of urgency, which concerns the adoption of the 4-a and the judicial order. We have not mentioned it in this House, but let us not forget that the PNRR commits us to approve the reform of tax justice, which is a non-secondary component of the slowdown in justice time. In this vision I would not be so much in favour of uncoordinated interventions on individual situations, because there is a risk of creating greater chain irrationality, but a revision can be the subject, in due course, of a common reflection. With regard to the judicial system and the referendum, Senator Bonino, I have said this from the outset: two legitimate, parallel paths have few areas of overlap and in that case we will have to see whether the legislator meets the demands of the referendums or not; there are all those techniques that we know very well and our constitutional system provides for these forms of dialogue between the work in Parliament, representative democracy and that of the referendum. This is not the first time that has happened, but there are also very distant issues on this front that are not the subject of the proposal of the judiciary. I personally believe in the synergy of the two forms of intervention and possible reforms, so they both come together in such a way that they are both carried out in parallel. I spend a word on Chicco Forti (I no longer know that he reminded me of this); he was marked in the report, I did not bring him back here because I had already spoken several times in the public debate on this subject. I went to the United States to meet the Attorney General, my federal counterpart in the United States, to give themselves all the necessary explanations they asked about what it means to apply the Strasbourg Convention in this transfer of prisoners. During the meeting there really was a way to explain and clarify any doubt that might emerge. At this point we are waiting for their response, bearing in mind that this kind of decision in the United States is complicated by the federal structure, because there must be a consensus both of the governor of Florida, which is the place where Chicco Forti is held, and of the Department of Justice at the federal level, with which I spoke. There's a correspondence going on with the governor of Florida, and I'm waiting for an answer to a letter I wrote to him a few months ago. We have not forgotten, he is a person who is being followed, I had also spoken to his mother after this trip; we are waiting for their answer. I'm gonna stop right here. There would be a lot more to say, but I really don't want to take advantage of your patience. Someone - if I am not mistaken Senator Modena - said that it was a collective commitment and the PNRR will still be a collective commitment. It is. We have come so far through paths that it was not obvious they brought us here; it was a year in which we tried to talk together about justice. I think this is a result not to be underestimated, we can talk about it, we can get to some texts; someone stressed that they are not enough, that there is still a long way to go: I am the first to be aware of it, but a piece of road has been made, it is not equal to zero because a result already exists and because it traces before us a possible path even for the years that await us. [[Applause.]] Turning to the expression of the opinion on the motions for resolutions, on Resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators, many commitments addressed to the Government correspond to lines of action already pursued and for which initiatives of legislative reforms or preliminary investigation have already been taken. I quote a few of them because it is a very complex resolution: for example, the implementation of the principle of fair criminal trial; in civil, the decision of reasonable time and the reduction of backwardness. Tax reform, as I have already announced, is one of the milestones of the PNRR; there is already an interministerial commission that has worked and we should start considering it after the judicial system. Then there is the overcoming of staff shortages, technological and digital innovation: on these and other points there is a path already partly crossed together and that is still possible, but there are also some commitments that I cannot agree with. I mention only one which is contrary to the reform guidelines adopted and on which work is being done: the proposal to repeal the improcability. For these reasons I can only express from the Government an opinion contrary to the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. The same position concerns motion for a resolution No 2: there are points of convergence, but there are also points where the government cannot be recognized. Therefore, also on this second motion for a resolution, tabled by Senators Lannotti, Giannuzzi, Lezzi, Moronese, Angrisani, Abbot, Mininno, La Mura, Corrado, Dessì and Morra, the opinion is against. There is also motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Gaudiano, Pillon, Mirabelli, Calienda, Cucca, Grasso and Unterberger, in which, taking note of what has been said and taking into account the commitments made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the report is approved: on this we express a favourable opinion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u40	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up the reasoning I have made before and I shall have to touch on some of the issues that have already been addressed in the reply. I greatly appreciated his attitude towards the path within Europe and what must characterize, even in our country, the life of judicial institutions. It is absolutely essential to be in line with the rest of Europe if we are to achieve the desired results. In this context of commitments and good words, however, I feel it is my duty to stress one aspect, namely the absolute non-sharing of what was celebrated at a particularly high moment in the Report: I am referring to the reform of the honorary judiciary, which, in fact, reform is not, that it is not grasping any of the aspects it should have grasped in reality. First of all, I must say that I did not agree with the method, because I want to remind you that a draft law was being discussed in the Commission on this matter, the two rapporteurs were well on track with the work and we had a close discussion in the Commission. Then came the government that asked us to suspend, because it should have sent us the amendment; this amendment never arrived and then was dropped into budget law, which is absolutely unusual, without any possibility of confrontation and discussion. Above all, it is an amendment which, in my opinion, does not at all grasp the sense of the reform that we should have implemented. This is proof of the fact that it was said that it was necessary and urgent - leaving aside the inclusion for the first time of such an amendment in the budget law - because it should have been used to block the infringement procedure that was under way in Europe. Far from achieving that result, the honorary judiciary has filed a new appeal and, in support of the previous infringement procedure, has sent another document in recent days, which of course is known to everyone, in which we are asking for a further investigation by Europe and therefore the continuation of the open infringement procedure. I would also like to remind you that the honorary judiciary has proclaimed a strike, precisely against that attempt at reform, which will start on 29 January. It is clear that that is not the method; the method should have been that of comparison, the famous amendment could have come to the Commission and probably we would have brought out a more effective and comprehensive measure. It is not only I who do not share it, but most of those interested in it have raised a number of problems. I am referring, for example, to the fact that stabilisation is only apparent, to the introduction of criteria for wages which create unequal treatment because there are those who can do a second job, even if it is not well known when they should do so considering how the magistrates are exploited. The same applies to selective procedures, which are simply a fig leaf because they do not actually exist. I therefore believe that there must be a commitment on the part of all of us to tackle this issue and to really put our hands on the matter in a comprehensive and effective way, because only in that way can we give an answer to those people, someone even more than thirty years, good or bad victims of a disease of the system. In fact, they had the opportunity to work and they did. The speaker is one who for thirty years has opposed the honorary judiciary thinking that the magistrates should be winners of competition. It is therefore a question that arises simply from the taking of action of the real condition of the judiciary and, above all, of the judicial apparatus which has been governed, since time immemorial, by the honorary judiciary. Telling them to take them to retirement is perhaps the best thing that has been dealt with, i.e. to give recognition of social security and social security assistance. This is the best aspect of the measure, but we stop there and do not face the future. This aspect obviously scares me a lot. Madam Minister, I am very grateful for the process of modernisation. We know perfectly well that the time of justice will be reduced when we have the opportunity to implement that process of digitisation that has just started and is very frightening, because the new one always scares. Certainly, however, at the moment when we are in a position, and we are already well on track because we are moving forward in great steps, I believe that it can be one of the decisive elements. I believe that that is really another element on which to work a lot because you say well when you say that the times must be shortened and in that way they will surely shorten very much. I do not want to dwell on the reform of civil and criminal law, as I said earlier. He's got to go to speed, there's gonna be some adjustments to make, and that's obviously fine. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the introduction of the family court. I greet with great interest the subject in question, as I have said for a long time now because it has been talked about for years and finally now we have started towards a decisive path, but we must put ourselves in the head that the family court needs highly specialized staff. As we know for the figure of the honorary magistrates, unfortunately in most of the courts, especially in the promiscuous ones, one morning a judge does the execution, the next the judge for the preliminary investigations and the next still goes to integrate the college, civil or criminal it is. This can no longer happen. The family court is of great importance. He must therefore have personal competition winner, but trained and highly specialized. One thing that must be taken absolutely into account, as you have pointed out, is prevention. This is especially true of feminicides, which are becoming more and more frequent. I also want to draw attention to accidents at work, which have become tragically recurrent. The delicacy of the issues concerning the family really requires special attention. If we want to achieve the result we want, we must necessarily put our hands on administrative staff, but this applies above all to judges, who must have specific training for that type of matter. We can no longer do without the preventive work, because without it we will hardly be able to move forward. The hope is that in the adoption of the implementing decrees, which will have to be brought to the attention for the prescribed opinions also of the House, try to overcome the moment of stall on the subject of the honorary judiciary and the collaboration relationship is more effective than has been so far. It is indeed necessary for Parliament's opinion to be taken into account, otherwise we are simply here to vote on the trusts and not to give the contribution that we would have to make. I also liked it very much when you said that this majority is very composite and that it certainly has a different vision and ideas than many very delicate issues of justice. We have spent the first part of this legislature to witness the affirmation of a more populist and demagogic idea (then fortunately we have overcome this theme), directed more than anything to give answers to the discontent of the people. Justice is not this; justice must be based on the application of constitutional principles and in this sense we trust much in his person. I often repeat this: you began, at the first meeting, saying that your lighthouse is the Constitution. I hope that this lighthouse never fails and I assure you that from many of us, I would say from all of us, this will be the phrase that we will keep carved in our minds. However - I repeat - some measures have objectively hindered a reform that had been initiated in the last parliamentary term. I am referring, for example, to remedial justice. I am very pleased that you have put your hand in this, because the issue of the penitentiary order and the reparative justice had been totally premeditated in implementing decrees; in the Orlando reform, instead, it was properly addressed and now we would have arrived at a just conclusion. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm finishing up, ma'am. We will of course have to encourage access to alternative rites, because we must put ourselves in the head, as I said in the first part of my speech, that prison is not the rule, but should always be the extreme ratio. So alternative rituals must definitely be encouraged. Above all, we must also put our hands on the subject of life imprisonment, which I have seen you pay a great deal of attention to, and I thank you for that. I am sure that we will be able to make a good journey; on the other hand, it is already being examined by the House. Finally, a single word on the MSM. I believe that the judiciary has never gone through a period of extreme difficulty like what it is going through now. Even last week's latest events, which I do not intend to talk about, confirm the extreme crisis of the judiciary, with all the events we know, and especially of what should have been the body of self-government. It is therefore essential that we arrive at a solution in a very short time, but this can only be achieved by direct discussion in the parliamentary seat, which is Parliament. For this reason, even if there are obviously differences of view (as you yourself said), it is clear that we from Italy Viva - Italian Socialist Party will vote strongly in favour of your report, but begging you to put your hand to the critical issues that have emerged and that exist. It is better that we look at them and face them together, because we really have the conditions to do a good job. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I urge my fellow senators to respect the time allocated to them in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u43	Balboni (FdI). Madam President, Madam Minister, the situation of justice in Italy is dramatic. It is not from today and it is certainly not because of its responsibility, but the inefficiency and delays of justice, as we all know (you too have made a brief mention of it), cost in economic terms. Just think that if the duration of Italian justice were comparable to the European average, it is estimated that this would produce 130,000 more jobs; and we know how important it would be for Italy to have more opportunities for work. But above all this would be an important driver for investment from abroad, because we know that unfortunately the issue of justice is one of the main obstacles to investment from abroad in Italy (you mentioned that too). However, the situation is now as dramatic as it was a year ago, Minister. Of course, there have been difficult moments, due to the emergency from Covid-19, but the situation is still the same: more than 1.5 million criminal trials and more than 3.1 million pending civil trials. We even have a spending on unjust detention that exceeds EUR 27 million per year: a thousand people every year end up in prison as innocent people in protective custody. [[Applause]] A third of the inmates are awaiting trial. We rightly complain about overcrowding in prisons, but one out of every three prisoners in prison today is not a convicted person. These are issues, Minister, which you must deal with more decisively. I understand that yours is such a large majority that it contains everything and the opposite of everything, and unfortunately this often and willingly brings down compromises. The reforms you mentioned in your report are down, Minister. You are a jurist and you cannot help but realize that, in order to keep everything together and the opposite of everything, in the end you can find absolutely inadequate solutions. You made a reference and I don't want to subtract. On the reform of the prescription, you, to please this and that, have created a hybrid that there is only in Italy: you have put together a substantial institute like the prescription, up to the judgment in the first degree, and then, in order not to displease the 5 Stars, you have invented the procedural prescription. But this, Minister, will have an effect contrary to what you wish. It is clear, in fact, that a judge of first instance, who knows that he has, for example, seven and a half years to issue a judgment for fraud, does not pose the problem of allowing the judge of second or third degree to conclude the trial in the time of the prescription, because in appeal the prescription is no longer there: there will simply be imprecedibility. So, on the one hand, you will lengthen the times of the first degree of judgment and, on the other hand, you will encourage the appeal, because everyone will appeal, in the hope of benefiting, then, from the procedural prescription, that is, from impeccability. Here is an example for which the compromise, for a sort of heterogeneous purpose, produces the opposite result to what you say you want to pursue. [[Applause]] The same applies in the civil process. Minister, you who are a jurist are well aware that putting too early foreclosures and insurmountable barriers violates the principle of contradictory, because it prevents the question of the parties to be completely distorted; you also know, however, that when two parties end up before a judge they do not have to solve just one issue; matters are becoming increasingly complicated. As the United Chambers Supreme Court has also pointed out, foreclosures too early prevent the bringing into that process all the issues involving those parties. This means that you earn three, four or five months in that trial, but you will often force those same parties to a second, a third or a fourth trial, to resolve all the events that exist between them. Do you see how sometimes, unfortunately, not having a cohesive majority that goes all in the same direction leads to paradoxical results, such as these? Certainly in the reforms that we have made there are also positive aspects, of course. There has been talk from several parts of the family court: we have supported it and there was indeed our proposal for a law in this sense, to which you have drawn widely, and we are happy and satisfied with this. As for the criminal, I think of the presumption of innocence: alive God, finally! Finally, there are criteria for referral back to court, which refer not to the justification of the trial, but to the reasonable prediction of conviction: less bad! But then, unfortunately, the situation of justice in Italy has resulted and leads to a fall in the confidence of the Italians in the administration of justice, because there is not only an economic issue, about which I have already briefly spoken, but there is also a theme of feeling of justice, which today is regularly trampled on. There have been dramatic examples in this House, unworthy of a civilized country like ours, of people who, after ten years and after an acquittal at first instance, are condemned on the basis of the same identical evidence for which they had been acquitted and who, in order to save their honour, see no other way out than suicide. This is also today, unfortunately, justice in Italy. Minister, you rightly said in a passage from your speech that we must rebuild the confidence of Italians in justice and then, if you want to do so, do so! Reformed as the CSM should: this electoral system of multiple preferences, with decreasing weight, will be the triumph of currents and not their elimination. [[Applause]] We need the draw - at extreme evils, extreme remedies - if we want to eradicate completely the current degeneration, which has emerged from the scandals that everyone is unfortunately talking about. Then we must intervene, upstream or downstream, but we find the system: we need the draw! Enough with the revolving doors between the judiciary and politics and finally take the courage to get to the separation of careers! [[Applause]] Madam Minister, there is a medieval privilege, unworthy of a rule of law, for which judges have absolute immunity: I refer to the civil liability of judges. We should rather talk about irresponsibility, because even in the extreme case in which a magistrate gets to answer for the damages he caused, with malice or gross negligence, although all Italians respond with their assets from the damage they cause, the magistrate only responds within the limit of six months of his salary. Isn't that a shame? Minister, how can the Italians think of being protected, if the judge is immune and enjoys a medieval privilege. There would obviously be many other things to talk about, such as the honorary judiciary, trampled on and humiliated, with an amendment that not all political forces have shared. We have not shared this and the blackmail must remain in the minutes so that an honorary magistrate who submits an application for stabilisation - shameful, because you equalize them with the administrative staff - at the time when he submits the application, must renounce all claims relating to rights, which have been trampled on in the ten, twenty or thirty years of exercise of his profession. If a private entrepreneur did it, with one of his workers, the next day he would be on trial for extortion and you put him in a law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u44	I invite you to conclude, Senator Balboni.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u45	Balboni (FdI). We would have to talk about prisons, life imprisonment and many other matters, but since my time is up, I would like to refer to the 25 specific points in our motion for a resolution, which indicate what should be the road, not of this political force, but of a serious and modern state that understands that justice is fundamental for the economy but also for democracy, because without a feeling of justice there is no democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u48	Mr Rossomando (PD). Madam President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we share the content and commitments contained in the report and today is the day of a first budget of a very intense and difficult year. Many things have been said by my previous colleagues, particularly my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, so I will just comment on a few points. We have begun a process of reform in a Government of unity and national necessity, as you also recalled, which forced us to work together, to share, to decide. But fortunately we have lived it not as an unfortunate obligation, but as it had to be, that is, as a great occasion, a great responsibility for some expected reforms that had - as it was - to be discussed for a long time, shared and decided together, in a spirit of republican unity and of great responsibility. I believe that this spirit must continue and that we must continue with the reforms. [[Applause]] Of course, the magic word of this phase and of the PNRR, as far as we are concerned, is the question of timing. A great historian and intellectual has painted the passage to the modern State recalling the passage of the times of the Church in a millenarian sense to the times of the merchant: what is the modern State and what is then the industrial revolution that is marked by the times of the merchant. Certainly the question of the times in a modern economy, in an economy of digitalization, is once dazzling from this point of view, but the times of Italian justice were and are still too slow. We have rightly intervened in the name of this emergency, of this structural urgency. However, we have spoken about the times with a great objective and point of reference, namely that the times of justice have to do with the full implementation of the rule of law and access to rights, an issue that therefore concerns not only criminal justice, but above all civil justice, to which we have a lot of space and attention, because the denial of access to rights and too long times are a denial of justice and a reversal of the principles of the rule of law. When we talk about presumption of innocence, I am very proud that we unanimously voted on Parliament's stance on the implementation of the European directive on presumption of innocence. It was after a discussion, of course, after a wide-ranging discussion, but I am even more proud of the fact that in the reform of the criminal process this was one of the informant principles and part of the question of timing, of the reasonable duration of the trial. Too much centrality is given to the phase of preliminary investigations, too much media attention, and this again has to do with the presumption of innocence; too much marginalization of the process, which is the public place of defence proving, of contradictory, of the implementation of the guarantees. I would therefore like to point out that the fact that we have rewritten that we are not asking for referral back to court if there is no reasonable prospect of condemnation is an important point in our reform process. Then of course there is the whole question of resources, modernisation and reorganization, because for too long in the past there has been much discussion of justice as an instrument of political struggle and never of resources dedicated to it. Another important point of our approach, of our reference horizon, especially in the context of the criminal process, is the affirmation of the secularity of the process. We leave it to historians to study processes, to make reconstructions and to give us some elaborations, but we certainly know and affirm that history is not done with processes, because the processes must ascertain truths, facts and responsibilities and do not serve to write history. We have been informed about this principle in the reforms we have implemented. Speaking then of modernization, the novelty of a department dedicated to digital transition and statistics is certainly very positive, because this implies a completely different form of organization and also a continuous exercise in adapting to the novelties, taking into account the guarantees that must be rewritten, rethought and always protected. The culture of guarantees lies within the institutional culture, it is part of it and cannot be separated from it, and that is something I would like to stress. What are the reforms that we urgently need to do and complete? The reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the interventions on the prison, on which much has been said and I am glad that for successive approximations from different sides it is said that it is not good to be in prison before being judged, if it is even found that one was not guilty. Very well, then, that prison becomes an extreme ratio as a shared principle. Of course, it's not just that. You have made a great deal of thought about these points, and we obviously want to insist on comprehensive and comprehensive action. On the remedial justice and on article 4-a of the penitentiary order, i.e. life imprisonment, much has been said and I refer to the interventions that preceded me. I would like to make a few comments on a crucial point which has to do with the culture of the institutions, which we must necessarily share, despite the difference in options, perspectives and proposals. I am referring to the reform of the MSM. It is not from today that we in the Democratic Party are asking for it and we are working on it and making proposals. Even in the past legislature, with Minister Orlando and with the contribution of our Group, we have presented detailed proposals; today we have reworded and enriched them. So we have certainly not waited for the recent news to feel the need for it or to advance ideas and solutions. We can certainly say that these last two years have been among the most difficult that the judiciary has gone through in its relationship with citizens, despite the work of the current MSC in an innovative and responsible way. Degenerations of currentism, power for power, an excess of self-referentiality are the knots that have come to the comb and that we must fight to help sew - as you said - that essential confidence of citizens towards the judiciary and justice. Therefore, aware of this importance and responsibility, we think that it is not enough, of course, to change the electoral law. We are not talking, therefore, of course, just about electoral law, but we need a series of interventions on the reorganization of work that we think, among other things, cannot do without the pluralism of the ideas necessary for ethical regeneration that cannot, of course, appeal only to a legislative change. Plurality of ideas against the crystallization of power is necessary for power. Therefore, laws on electoral reform will not be enough. We therefore propose a change in the criteria for professional evaluation; the vote of lawyers in the judicial councils; a different relationship between elected positions and permanence in the role; a different internal organisation, with a separation of disciplinary function from that of nominations; we propose - an increasingly present theme in the debate of these last hours on the decisions that have affected the Council of State and the CSM - the establishment of a High Court with the same criteria that we use for the composition of the Constitutional Court, which is pronounced for the appeal of disciplinary measures and on disputes concerning all other administrative measures, such as the identification of the managements of the offices, for all the high judges. This is an important challenge, in which Parliament could still measure up to its unity and responsibility. What, in conclusion, is the direction, what are the principles, the points of reference for these important reforms that put the relationship between citizens and institutions at the centre? What is the shared institutional culture, even in the difference of ideas? I believe that it can only be that of the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, of the separation of the powers of the State as a guarantee against all forms of will, for the protection of all the freedoms of the individual citizen, knowing that today we are discussing this within the framework of a changing world, where inequalities are accentuated with the consequent social tensions and in these social tensions advances ideas of a State that exceeds the democratic and liberal conception of authoritarian states. For this reason it is important to have an institutional framework of reference shared in the independence and mutual control between the powers of the State. Very important technologies, which, however, call into question very personal spaces and which challenge us in the protection of these spaces and these freedoms. We need to strengthen these principles and not pick them up, knowing what are the criticalities and what is the culture of the secularity of the State, of a liberal conception. We know that we are not at the second half of a game that started more than twenty years ago and not ended: we are at the dawn of a new era, with the challenges and responsibilities that this entails and with that unity of intentions and institutional responsibility that we cannot do without and to which we are called to respond. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u51	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Minister Cartabia, listening to your report, I could not fail to note the reference you made to the construction of the bunker hall of the maxi-process to the Mafia. I remember perfectly those long months of work, animated by the responsibility to offer Palermo the opportunity to celebrate the most important criminal trial in our country's history. At the time, as a judge to the sides, I was engaged in the supervision of those works and we got the result that we had set ourselves precisely thanks to the extraordinary commitment of the institutions that showed, as never before, a concrete commitment to fight the mob. The construction of the bunker hall was the first step; then other measures followed, such as the first computers, at the time avant-garde tools, and all the tools of the most modern technologies that could help and make that process faster. Parliament even passed, in record time, a law that allowed us to overcome the caudine forks of the Code of Procedure, which would put at serious risk the path of the maxi-process. That extraordinary victory of legality over the Mafia, therefore, in the collective effort, though inspired by two champions such as Falcone and Borsellino. Even today, the maxiprocess testifies as a strategic vision, collective commitment and well allocated resources produce extraordinary results. Today, after thirty years, we have another incredible opportunity offered by the PNRR resources coming from Europe. And it is precisely the European dimension that we must keep in mind when we think about the road ahead. In this regard, I greatly appreciated your reference to the European Public Prosecutor. Having worked and worked together in the past, being absolutely convinced of its importance, I can only be happy and congratulate you on this achievement. In her report, she described a vision of the path of reform of the justice system which I feel I share in her objectives but which, in my opinion, has not yet achieved - but is understandable - the results hoped for. I voted for the reforms, although I did not see them as equal to the breakthrough that the justice system desperately needs, but I understand how parliamentary situations and current politics sometimes influence solutions. We need more, though: we need it now and we need it now. I am convinced that there are two subjects on the agenda of absolute importance, which you mentioned, but which deserve an immediate response. The first is the amendment of Article 4-a of the penitentiary order. A path has begun, with a report by the Anti-Mafia Commission voted unanimously. Now a text is under discussion in the House. It takes courage, to avoid giving a resounding opportunity to the mafias to raise their heads; it takes firmness, because the fight against the mafia is very current. Just think of the latest news coming from Puglia, Foggia. We need loyalty to the constitutional dictation. You are its guarantor, and that reassures us. Fidelity that sees in the State the subject that administers justice and never revenge. I made proposals. I have deposited a text of law in the Senate and I can only wish a moment of pride on the part of Parliament before the Consultative Committee takes any further action. I don't even want to imagine that in May, when we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the massacres of Capaci and Via D'Amelio, a good law is not yet passed. It would mean smearing, with enormous humiliation, the memory of those men and women and remembering them would be a manifestation of hypocrisy and not the tribute and respect they deserve. I hope that the same courage that is needed to rewrite the rules on life imprisonment will also be found for another crucial challenge that awaits us: the reform of the MSM and the judiciary. The credibility of the judiciary, the main source of citizens' trust in justice, is at stake. The composition of the Council, while having within it a natural and, in my opinion, necessary dialectic of positions, which correspond to the different guidelines, must ensure the concrete implementation of the constitutional principles. Fluctuism must be curbed, starting with a revision of the rules on the election and functioning of the MSC, focusing on the transparency of the elective operating procedures. I am thinking of a mechanism that guarantees wider participation regardless of the designation of organised groups, which rewards merit, knowledge of problems, which also enhances the proximity between representatives and representatives. I also think that the possible contiguity of the members with active policy representatives should be significantly reduced by including restrictions on eligibility and access to managerial posts once the mandate has been completed. These ideas, as you know, Minister, are contained in a bill that I, too, deposited in the Senate. We need an authoritative CSM in order to restore credibility to the entire judiciary, which pays as a whole the blame of the few, but unfortunately influential and decisive magistrates. Madam Minister, you have rightly referred Parliament to the situation in prisons. What emerges, and unfortunately it is not surprising who, like me, for reasons of service, has attended prisons for many years, is a dramatic picture, and you have drawn it: lack of space, lack of staff, lack of prospects, lack of hope for full respect of what the Constitution provides. Not least - let me say this - food shortages. The tenders won at 2.39 euros per day of food per prisoner are not only abnormal, they are unworthy. That is why I appreciated the separation between food which, as is well known, is at the expense of the administration, and I survive, which is at the expense of the prisoner. I believe that this is the right way to allow adequate nutrition in prisons as well. Madam Minister, in the course of the report I have received positive signals on many of the aspects mentioned, but as legislators we cannot fail to take into account the enormous difficulties of those in the penitentiary institutions who are serving their sentences, but also those who work there daily. The increased resources allocated, thanks also to European funds, are certainly good news, but in the time it takes for the adaptation of the structures - we understand - we also have a duty today to ensure full respect for the rights of prisoners and those who work in prisons. His reference in reply to the complex affair of Chico Forti heartens me, and I share with her the hope that he will conclude the execution of the prison sentence in Italy. I believe that this is the time to rediscover that unity of intent that marked the great successes achieved at the time of the maxiprocess: strategic vision, well-allocated resources, collective effort. Mrs. Minister, the resources are there, as great as ever in our recent history; the strategic vision that you have outlined deserves to be pursued, provided that it is truly and completely realized, not only in part. As for the collective effort, I believe that this vast majority, even though faced with an inevitable and strong dialectic, must assume on itself the responsibility of finding a meeting point that is as high and concrete as possible. It is not the time to compromise downwards, it is not the time to make a living; it is the time of courage. On behalf of Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali, I am voting in favour of Resolution No 3, which takes note of the commitments made and the results achieved by you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u54	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, Minister, Undersecretaries and colleagues, Mrs Modena has already explained why we are in another world, a happier world since she was Minister of Justice. For these reasons we shall be voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 3, which approves your report. This does not alter the fact that we need to express some considerations, corrections or additions to the work carried out so far. You see, Minister, there are two ways of being parliamentarians: one is that of the Member who wants the approval of the flag, of any amendment, who believes that the legislative activity that Parliament carries out is to affirm the belief of his own party. Then there is another way, that of believing and giving technical, political, scientific support to those ideas that are proposed by anyone, but that are actually in the interests of the citizens. Forza Italia belongs to this second category and to this group of parliamentarians. This is why we supported his idea of changing the civil process that introduced the reform of family law and established the family court, which, when I entered the judiciary in 1970, was still a dream; that was what Maria Eletta Martini had already said a few years ago. However, we are faced with a measure for which we had only indicated, as a further necessity for its functionality, some reforms: one of these was the reform of the tax section of the Cassation. Excuse me, Minister, but only incompetent people can tell you that this is a matter of tax reform: it has nothing to do with it. The civil cassation court performs the tax function and therefore the organisation of the Court belongs to the civil trial and knows it better than I do. So there is a fundamental problem that we must respect. What did the bill on the arbitration chambers of the lawyer accompanying the bill of civil trial mean and that was to be voted together? I have to acknowledge you and the ministerial structure that you asked to postpone it, because we should have done so in September, not because it was proposed by a group of senators, but because that bill means lightening the workload on ordinary judges. That's the logic of making the system work. Similarly, if we do not lighten the tax section of the Court of Cassation, according to the increase in the number of judges in that Chamber, we will not have a civil system that works. Mr Cucca has already talked about some issues and I have also said it publicly in the Commission: I greatly appreciated what you did to recover money for the honorary judiciary, because I believe that the former situation was crying out for revenge. She was good, but we waited eight months. I had proposed to Mr Sisto, who I do not see today, that the amendment to the budget law should be withdrawn and that it was right to make an ad hoc law by 15 January, to which we would all contribute together, Parliament and the Government, because that is our logic. The logic of Forza Italia is linked to the need to have a system that meets the needs of citizens. Finally, a system has been approved in criminal reform that leads to the recognition of European judgments that were not effective in our country. Finally, a system is introduced. Of course, there is still bitterness in the mouth in the face of some judgments of our Court of Cassation declared illegitimate eight months after the Court of Cassation itself and which, however, are enforced. This is a filthy one. I am referring to the sentence concerning Berlusconi, as you will have understood very well. I am also referring to the judgments of the European Court which concern a number of citizens, who find no justification. In other words, a judgment is applied which has been found to be wrong, with the absence of the essential presuppositions of jurisdiction. Recalling what Senator Dal Mas said, we can no longer accept that a prosecutor can challenge the sentences of acquiescence. [[Applause]] Minister, the chairman of the commission that you set up, Giorgio Lattanzi, in the report writes that the basis of the criminal system, in order to make it effective, must eliminate the appeal of the prosecutor to the sentences of acquiescence. This is what Mr Lattanzi wrote in his report to Parliament, which we have not contested or taken into account. We will have to make corrections and additions. Mr Dal Mas will present a draft law, which I have also signed, with which we will offer a solution to the problem, in order to make it compatible with the old judgment of the Constitutional Court. Finally, Minister, we cannot think of reforming the Supreme Council of the judiciary and that the Senate is only involved with the vote of confidence of a text voted by the House. I do not ask you to delay years, but I would ask you to make a committee one day in which the Senate can comment on the amendments that will be tabled. I turn to President Rossomando, who drew attention to the plurality of ideas, it is not that we have defended and wanted the currents only for the plurality of ideas. The currents in the judiciary have determined the cultural and professional elevation of the entire judiciary which, on the other hand, was only a selection of a few and for the rest were all bureaucrats. That is the reality. We have had a judiciary that has risen and has been able to carry out its tasks from terrorism and Tangentopolis. All this was possible because there was a judiciary and the currents that believed in constitutional principles. Minister, in conclusion, I would like to say one thing: why do I say that there is neither the sentences nor the acts of guilt that are evaluating the latest events of the judiciary take this issue into consideration? When I hear that someone in the Supreme Council of the judiciary says that there is a need to go into a discontinuity in the management of a particular prosecutor or tribunal, that someone does not realize that he says such a thing that it is a matter of creating an influence, an undue interference on jurisdiction. The Constitution, I don't have to teach you, doesn't give us a model of jurisdiction. The model is that of the Constitutional Charter, but it is not a model of operation. There can then be no within the judiciary who says they want discontinuity in a certain office. That would mean that he has his own jurisdictional model and that I who submit the question will have to conform to that model to be appointed. 14.25 a.m. This is against the Constitution. It is therefore necessary to evaluate the systems of evaluation of magistrates and the systems of appointment of management offices. And, excuse me, abandon the idea of small colleges, because the end of the Higher Council came precisely with the colleges compared to the national single college. My proposal is that either we draw lots, or we give one preference in the single national college, a mandatory preference for another list, because then it would mean a mandatory panachage that would prevent the harmful effects of the proportional system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u55	Minister, it is the darkest hour of justice; it is useless for us to hide it. Minister, I truly believe that you are a competent Minister, that you have also managed to mediate irreconcilable positions and that you can listen. But now we ask her to demonstrate another dowry: the dowry of courage, because, in the face of the chaos that reigns, we need incisive and truly courageous reforms. Much has been discussed in recent years about the conflict between the judiciary and politics. But now, in my opinion, there is a much more worrying conflict, because there is now a conflict between magistrates. Perhaps little has been said about this in this House, but what has happened in these days shakes the wrists. In fact, we had the appointment of very high magistrates by the MSC (we are talking about the first president of the Supreme Court) and we had the annulment by the Council of State. It seems that tomorrow there is the renaming by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and probably later there will be the appeal against the renaming. We're talking about the first magistrate in Italy. I don't know who's right. I tried to document myself and read as much as possible: in the reasons of the Council of State it is written that the CSM would have made an unreasonable motivation, because there is another magistrate in the race who had more titles, while the CSM responds with this decision that will probably be taken tomorrow and leaked, through the newspapers, that the Council of State would overflow its powers. Attention: tomorrow there is the plenum with the President of the Republic, which must therefore choose whether to take sides with the MSC or with the Council of State. [[Applause]] Mr Minister, I do not take sides, but I note and ask you, who is Minister of Justice: what do you think of all this? What do you think of these conflicts? Well, we would like you to note that it is not time for small adjustments. We would like you to note that we now really need deep and radical reforms. You see, that of the CSM is not a house that needs a renovation or a painting; that of the CSM is a house to be demolished and rebuilt. [[Applause]] Mr President, a touch-up would be useless, believe me. It has shown failure to the current career advancement system, which is almost automatic. I heard someone talking about the electoral system. Well, I believe that at this point it is necessary to introduce the draw, identifying initial requirements to be candidates. When it comes to drawing lots - I don't know if you notice them - suddenly a lot of people get angry. What is the objection to the draw system? It is as follows: with the draw you reward the lucky and not the deserving. Excuse me, Minister, but has the current electoral system rewarded the deserving? If he had rewarded the deserving - I say more - I would prefer the lucky. [[Applause]] The draw certainly has an advantage, which is what allows you to cut the umbilical cord with the currents and evidently eliminate gratitude to the current that brought me, that gratitude that forever undermines the independence of the chosen. Justice wants certainty, Minister, and we are living in chaos. I don't know which one of you has done an open source search, but you will know much more than I do, because I only searched on open source the words that come to mind: chaos and the judiciary. And this came out: first the chronicles were concerned with people investigated by the magistrates; today they deal with magistrates investigated by other magistrates. We have few magistrates, but those we have are extremely busy in sensitive investigations of colleagues. At the prosecutor's office in Brescia, between the loggia Hungary, case ENI and other events, there are about eleven prosecutors under investigation. The magistrates of Salerno investigate the colleagues of Catanzaro, but in turn a prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor of Salerno is investigated in Naples. In Perugia we investigate many Roman magistrates; in Puglia there was a kind of record from what I saw: in 2021 every Province was able to boast a magistrate investigated or condemned; in Trento about six magistrates; meanwhile in Caltanissetta there are the trials for the magistrates of Palermo on the so-called anti-mafia issue. Minister, these are open source research that anyone can do; who knows how much you know. I have always defended the magistrates and I continue to defend them; I am talking about some magistrates. Attention: it is essential to put back hand to a disciplinary section of the CSM that really does its job. [[Applause]] Domestic justice is unacceptable for how, for now, it has been carried out. We also spoke with you once about access to the judiciary and you propose shortening the deadlines. I told you this and I repeat it here: I am terrified that I am going to go to a graduate to carry out those tasks; I want there to be an evaluation of balance, of scrupulousness, of moral requirements. So you're gonna take it all down, but you're not gonna get into the judiciary, Minister. [[Applause]] What I want to tell you is that really, looking at and studying all these things, sometimes it seems to me that at this moment justice is living a bit like the plot of the fairy tales of Gianni Rodari on the reverse, in which you do not understand who is right and who is wrong: Red Riding Hood is bad, the wolf is good, there was once a poor wolf who brought his grandmother dinner in a bundle. When he calls my firm a magistrate, I don't know if he calls for my client or if he wants to be my client. This is because there is chaos, and such chaos reverberates on everyday life. First, young graduates were given manuals to explain the right. Maybe you too have some guys ask you: how does the CSM work? I'm ashamed to give articles. The other day a guy came and I had him print out the chats in Palamara at the photocopier, because he wanted to explain how to vote for the CSM. I thought, what do I have to say to him? So I got a chat with Palamara. I wanted to say, how do you usually vote? Usually a vote is taken to decide who goes to a place. Then I thought, why do I have to lie? Then I gave him the chat where it says: "Declare who goes and then we organize the vote" (Translated with Google Translate) Is it possible that we have to give Palamara chats to really explain how things are going? [[Applause]] I arrived at nine minutes and so I have to cut, but I can't help but say that in the courtrooms there is the written "Justice is administered in the name of the Italian people." But the Italian people are terrified of justice, because they know that it is not enough to be right, but we must prove it. The Italian people know - this can be said by all lawyers - that their lawyers are always disadvantaged, at best, because the prosecutor has a relationship of connection and custom with the judge; at worst because there are current ties and perhaps the judge aspires to an assignment, which can only be obtained thanks to the support of the other magistrate's current [[Applause]] That's why lawyers don't feel like asking the defendants anymore: Is that judge scholar? Now the defendants ask us: "What current is that judge?" [[Applause]] That is why, with force, we also support the separation of careers. To conclude, Minister, please note that there are so many magistrates who work quietly, day and night. [[Applause.]] magistrates who did not have an assignment, because they are out of the currents. If those magistrates today began to think that living honestly is useless, it would be the death of justice. We will vote in favour, but we ask you for courage! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u58	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ministro, the historic moment at which we find ourselves demands, if possible even more vigorous than in the past, maximum attention in fulfilling the mandate received by the voters. The continuation of the pandemic situation has inexorably characterized the legislative activity and, among the various areas of action of the state, that of the judicial administration has also been hit by the emergency health. The legislator, through a series of reforms launched from 2020 to today - I also remind some colleagues, who have intervened: from 2020 - has put an embankment, aimed at facilitating the proper functioning of the administration. The year that has just ended has seen the operation of a Government born to cope with this situation, consisting of a majority that includes almost the whole constitutional arc and, for this reason, is very heterogeneous. Divisive themes, such as justice, have, however, been addressed with the sole objective of ensuring the efficiency of the system. Much has been done, Madam Minister, and in fact we acknowledge the completeness of the report, but much still needs to be done. As Movimento 5 Star Group we are pleased with the result achieved with the approval of the law delegation of civil process reform. In the Senate Justice Commission - as has already been mentioned - it has worked with a good synergy between the various political sensibilities and the Government has managed to harmonize the text in an organic way. An explicit demonstration was the redefinition of the first hearing of the parties' appearance and discussion of the case, where it was possible to reconcile the almost opposing demands of speed and efficiency of the process with the effectiveness of the parties' right of defence. That of the law, however, represents only a first step towards the objective of reducing 40% of the litigation and, precisely, the average length of the proceedings. It will be in fact only with the legislative decrees that we will see whether this path will be realized or not. I am personally pleased with the adoption of an amendment, signed by my Group, which provided for an enhanced procedure in the consultative forum of the Justice Commission. In fact, there is the need, however, that was also represented by the other colleagues who preceded me, that a close collaboration and synergy between the Groups and the Government be created more and more. This is a hope that we have been able to incorporate effectively into the delegation law for the reform of the civil process, but that of course we would also like it to be extended to the reform of the criminal process. I am also pleased on behalf of my Group that the Office for trial has been set up. The new organisation of justice, in fact, can only benefit from the professionalism of more than 8,000 young lawyers - as has been mentioned in the report - beyond the fact that the same organic plant of the judicial judge can be so strengthened. There is only one knot to be solved on which we have discussed these days, that is, the one relating to the discourse of incompatibility and, therefore, a hypothetical conflict of interests that could be configured in the case of a lawyer who is recruited as an operator within the Office of the trial in which he exercises the profession: I hope that in the next few days by the Ministry there may be an explanatory circular. Following a program to strengthen the staff of the justice sector, which has already begun since 2018 with the Government Count following the launch of the PNRR, the judicial offices are finally receiving that lifeblood of human resources without which there can be no reform to speed up the process of the trials and, therefore, to break down the backward litigation, which unfortunately weighs on our judicial administration. We also agree with you, Mrs Minister, on the prompt transposition of the Whistleblowing Directive. We were the first to put this issue at the heart of the political agenda when, as soon as we entered Parliament in 2013, we presented our proposal, which was then turned into law, and we are glad that this issue is being addressed again. In relation to the Constitutional Court's warning regarding the provisions of Article 4-a of the judicial order, the 5 Star Movement cannot fail to intervene, having as its sole objective the fight against the mafia and organised crime in general, in whatever form it may appear. In fact, important statements of the Council also concern the issues of defamation and, in order also to avoid imprisonment for journalists in the event of defamation by the press and also as regards assisted suicide, we would like to see that in this legislature we could complete that path capable of bringing to light measures in these important areas. On the subject of organised crime was highlighted in some speeches - you also said in your reply - the seriousness of the emergency that is taking place in the territory of Foggiano, where there has been the explosion of several bombs that have inflicted painful wounds to the community and left obviously dismaying all Italy, and not only the territory of Foggiano. We are faced with a ruthless attack on the State, as we have seen many in other Italian Provinces. The institutions' response, therefore, can only be peremptory, also through the use of large human and logistical resources. Law enforcement and justice are needed in those territories where the reform of judicial geography has not given the desired effect. More generally, it is now necessary to take stock of what is the revision of the location of our courts, since the result is unfortunately full of shadows. I am therefore pleased that you, Mrs Minister, have taken this issue into account in your reply today and have had an opening from this point of view. The criticalities related to the speech of judicial geography are evident, both in terms of logistics and presence on the territory, downstream of a program of strengthening the staff of the justice sector that - as I said - was finally marked by the implementation of the judicial bodies, but also of the judicial administration. As far as the fight against violence against women is concerned, much has been done, but the road is still long. The black news, in fact, daily reminds us that - if on the one hand - there are rules to save lives - on the other - unfortunately the results achieved cannot satisfy all of us. The rules must, of course, be constantly updated and all too often not implemented. We were pleased to learn, from the replies, what is the specific course of the government initiative measure adopted at the Council of Ministers on 3 December, laying down provisions for the prevention and combating of the phenomenon of violence against women, which we hope will be assigned as soon as possible to one of the Chambers, so that it will set itself as a regulatory instrument capable of conveying all the proposals on the subject to complement what had already been foreseen by the Code of Red. That is why it is very important for this kind of measure to be seen in the light. As far as the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is concerned, the importance of this process has of course already been stressed several times. We know that it is incardinated in the House and we therefore hope that - as has already been done in the report - the process will be completed as soon as possible, in order to revive an institution which is very important for our democracy. Finally, I would like to remind all of Pope Francis' words today about the people detained in our prisons: It is right that those who have made a mistake pay for their mistakes, but it is just as right that those who have made a mistake should redeem themselves. There can be no condemnations without windows of hope. It is therefore a duty of the State to always keep the window of hope open. Prisons must be not only abstractly, but with all possible concreteness, a place of reintegration and elaboration of the errors and rules governing our coexistence. In this regard, I also take up the appeal of the guarantor for Mauro Palma prisoners, according to which the theatre activity must also be implemented in prisons just as a form of re-socialization and rehabilitation for prisoners. You, Mr Minister, spoke of the pandemic as a challenge from which serious opportunities and pressures for change can arise. The special provisions governing the exercise of judicial activity during the health emergency have proved effective in many cases in order to allow for a more rapid treatment of civil and criminal processes in compliance with the procedural guarantees and, at the same time, the existing health rules. Some of these measures would not mind seeing them at full capacity, as is also hoped for by the experts. The year 2021 will certainly be remembered not as a simple and painless year, but certainly as the year in which justice did not give way to the pandemic, and this is very important for us. That is why, Mrs Minister, I declare the 5 Star Movimento Group's vote in favour of majority resolution No 3, first signed by Senator Gaudiano. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u61	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). The state of justice in this country, that is the chaos and the marasm of judicial functions used as a power struggle among the currents of the CSM, judged by the late judge Imposimato metastasis of the judiciary, was plastically represented yesterday at the inauguration of the judicial year in Cassation. After the Council of State had canceled the most important appointment of the CSM - resolution of July 15 - with the nominations of the first president of Cassazione Pietro Curzio and of the added president Margherita Cassano, as if nothing were, despite the promises of more virtuous and transparent behaviour in the designation of the offices after the serious scandal Palamara, the CSM decided that President Curzio could remain in his place to inaugurate the Caporetto of unjust justice 2022, more and more to the measure of potentates; aggravated, Minister, from its reform, real and proper way of the cross for thieves of chickens and poor Christians without saints in paradise. In her report, she points out how to attack the times of criminal justice and reduce the pressure on the judicial system: the improcability in the case of remedial conduct, in particular compensation for the damage. From what emerges, we do not intend to attack the times of justice with the introduction of structural solutions to the problems encountered, illustrated by our resolution. Instead, it is preferred to select the processes worthy of review by the judge or to indicate the improcability of a judicial case, extinguishing the crime, in fact in violation of the fundamental European law confirmed among the objectives of the 2030 agenda: every person has the right to have his case examined fairly, publicly and within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial judge pre-established. Each person has the right to be advised, defended and represented. (The Presidency urges Senator Lannutti to conclude). Mr President, I am the only one in the opposition to speak. It allowed all thirty more seconds. That ruthless struggle of power and armchairs between the currents of the judiciary to capture the most sought-after directions, with some crazy splinters of operators sure to have protection from their current leaders for their mistakes, also produced the case of David Rossi, killed, with the magistrates who, instead of investigating the authors and the architects, investigated the wife and a journalist who had told the facts. You, Minister, mentioned a hero of the judiciary. If you will allow me, I quote Gratteri: if Falcone and Borsellino were alive, I imagine they would jump out of the chair by reading the term improcedibility in this reform, because it means that 50 percent of the appeals, where there was a conviction at first instance, cannot be celebrated. [[Applause]] There are no environmental crimes, no corruption, no concussion, no sin, no crime that is elbowed with politics and no chores. Imagine a worker falling from the fourth floor; the employer is condemned: it is obvious that this appealing trial will never take place and will go to the end. They have to explain to me when the widow and the children will be refreshed, when they have justice, says Gratteri. That's what you should answer... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u62	Senator Lannotti, I can assure you that an extra minute has also been granted to you. Moreover, I believe that the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy could be overshadowed, because of course you are not the only one of the opposition who has intervened. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Balboni and others. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Lannotti, Giannuzzi, Lezzi, Moronese, Angrisani, Abbot, Mininno, La Mura, Corrado, Dessì and Morra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Gaudiano, Pillon, Mirabelli, Caliendo, Cucca, Grasso and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concludes the examination of the Minister of Justice's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u65	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly at the end of this sitting to point out to the House that, in the Senate's Human Rights Commission, we have established relay interventions in this House - for those who can also on their social media - so that we do not lose sight of what is happening to women in Afghanistan. The Human Rights Commission is constantly monitoring events and, unfortunately, since the establishment of the Taliban Government, i.e. from August to today, the living conditions of women, despite all false proclamations, have deteriorated dramatically: the girls no longer go to school and women are forced to a situation of totally intolerable submission. What is happening in the last few hours must be under everyone's attention, as the UN has also pointed out at this stage. The combination of horrendous factors such as famine, drought, impoverishment of families - women are no longer allowed to work - is leading the population to slide to a very high percentage of poverty (over 97%). We've all seen in the news, in the last 48 hours, heartbreaking images of children starving, because they can't be fed. I would ask this Senate to give the attention it deserves, and I would also like to tell other Members, beyond those who sit in the Commission on human rights, to join our relay. We have work to do in the next few hours, the Senate is called home, we will elect the new Head of State, but the world goes on, the horror goes on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u68	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with an unexpected order, No 1 of 7 January 2022, by the President of the Campania Region, De Luca, has practically put the materialization of a situation at the same time sad and deleterious, which has a negative impact on the health of citizens. The decision taken by the regional summits involves the temporary suspension of all hospitalizations planned in public health structures: a measure that - we can say - is already causing and will cause incalculable damage to all patients suffering from no-Covid pathologies, which - as we know - unfortunately have not disappeared at all. On the contrary, it seems almost a euphemism, but the raw reality is this: it has now risen white flag with the total block or almost of the prevention programs, with the decrease of the right attention for the crippling and progressive pathologies, whose delayed diagnosis and the lack of the right therapeutic approach involve consequences not predictable and often not recoverable and with the extremely negative results for many sick people. This decision - in my opinion totally inappropriate - has been taken to try to prevent the collapse of the regional health service in reality and to disguise years of errors in the planning and poor management of the bell's health. And then only to hospitalizations with an urgent character, not differable and not procrastinable; for all the others there are very few alternatives to try to overcome the time factor: long waiting lists or to turn to private structures. To this situation, which is already difficult and dramatic in itself, is added to increasing the uncertainty and dismay of citizens, that the territorial assistance, which should be a filter for hospitals to avoid their logical collapse, has almost completely skipped. All this happens as we slide through our eyes images of dozens of ambulances outside the emergency room and of the queues of people waiting for hours to practice a Covid swab. It seems that two years since the beginning of the pandemic have taught nothing or almost anything. As nothing or almost has been done to recover the initial gaps and the serious structural and organisational deficiencies of our regional health structure. Madam President, once again, resilience will depend, as always, on the spirit of sacrifice of health workers and citizens, to whom we always thank. In Campania, in sanitarium... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-397.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 15.02 p.m.
