ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 13 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u3	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, confirmed the schedule of work of the current week. Therefore, as announced at the sitting on Tuesday 11 January, tomorrow at 9 a.m., the Minister of Justice's report on the administration of justice will take place. At the end of the session, the Senate will be summoned at home. On Monday 24 January, at 3 p.m., the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic are convened in common session, with the participation of regional delegates, for the election of the President of the Republic. Also on Monday 24 January, at 10 a.m. and 12 noon respectively, the joint meetings of the Presidency Offices and the Conferences of the Group Heads of the Chamber and the Senate are convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of work of the current week: [[Wednesday 19 January h. 9 - Report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice]] On 24 January, at 3 p.m., the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic shall be convened in joint session, with the participation of regional delegates, on the following agenda: Time distribution for discussion on the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u7	Drago (FdI). It is now known what is happening to the islanders, that is, the inhabitants of the islands, who find themselves without the complete vaccination cycle or perhaps choose not to vaccinate and who in the past months have had the opportunity to move freely within the Italian territory. I refer, in particular, to the provisions of Decree-Law No 172 of 2021, whose conversion we approved last week and which was transmitted to the Chamber's examination. On that occasion, no amendment was adopted specifically to avoid such discrimination. Well, the Ministry of Health had issued an order, giving the possibility to circulate within the smaller islands and excluding the major islands, therefore Sicily and Sardinia. Although there has been a clear, formal and explicit request, also through the press bodies, as well as through the institutional channels, by the president of the Region of Sicily Musumeci, the institutional scorn operated by this Government has determined the choice of the President of the Region to issue an order, which today has given the possibility, from 14.00 onwards, to compensate the inconvenience until the end of the state of emergency. The question I ask myself about this situation is about the economic damage caused by the lack of entry not only of residents, but also of those who may come to the island for tourist purposes and, therefore, consumes goods and uses services. In the face of the damage caused by the failure to enter, the use of the famous Azores judgment, which gives the opportunity to municipalities or regions, as well as to the central state, to intervene where economic disparities are created, could be assumed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u10	MAUTON (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the thousands of problems that are affecting, now like an asphyxiating spiral, Campania's regional health, it is my duty to point out the paradoxical situation that has arisen with regard to paediatric hospital care in Naples. It has been temporarily closed, as decided by the hospital company "Santobono-Pauzipon" n. 379 of January 10, 2022, also the only department of pediatrics of the garrison "S.S. Annunziata" of the historical center of Naples, reference point for many families and their children, often belonging to less well-off social groups and more in difficulty. It was attended by patients coming mainly from the historic center of Naples and from the most difficult and uncomfortable suburbs of the city, without forgetting all the municipalities of the metropolitan area. Given this situation, in the current pandemic moment, how is it possible that in a city like Naples, with about one million inhabitants and that, with all the metropolitan area, it reaches about 3 million residents, can exist, as a pediatric reference point immediately usable for emergencies and assistance, the only structure of the hospital "Santobono-Pausipon," which, although with all its skills and professionalism, cannot and cannot satisfy all the needs and requests of small patients, both for the number of accesses and services required, and for its location, not easily reachable by all? I appeal to the mayor of Naples, in his capacity as guardian of the health of his fellow citizens, as provided for by law n. 229 of 1999, to the general directors of the company "Santobono-Paubipon" and of the ASL "Naples 1" of Naples so that they make the greatest effort to find a quick and immediately practicable solution, that leads to the reopenings, in very short times, of the department of pediatrics of the garrison "S.S. Annunziata", inopinously closed. Responding to pediatric emergencies, to the request for immediately available beds, to the possibility of accessing a paediatric emergency room that is always active and readily accessible is an indisputable necessity, which is part of everyday reality and cannot wait. There cannot be, in a first aid place, an anaesthetic guard only day and working, not considering that pediatric emergencies can occur at any time. There are situations, Mr President, of degradation, of poverty, of abandonment, which require a prompt response, to which one cannot remain indifferent. In conclusion, Mr President, I renew my invitation to the administrators not to wait for irreparable situations to occur involving small patients and the health workers themselves, who perform their work in a spirit of sacrifice and self-denial to the profession. Let us ensure that the right to health, enshrined in Article 32 of our Constitution, and the same rights for children to receive adequate paediatric care are not forgotten or - worse still - trampled on by the lack of the necessary structural and organizational conditions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u11	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-01-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-396.ana.u12	The Senate will reconvene in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 19 January, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.40 a.m.).
