ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.09 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 7 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u3	Colleagues, the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, reports on the work of the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a on draft law No 2685.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u4	Mr President, the work of the joint committees is about to be completed, and Mr D'Alfonso is chairing them. We are confident that we will be ready for the House to examine the measure at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u5	If there are no comments, I give this further suspension until 12.30 a.m., hoping it will be the last. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.11 a.m. and resumed at 12.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2685. The rapporteurs, Senators D'Alfonso and Pesco, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u7	Madam President, we have been able to do a job that has proved fruitful, despite the particularity of the moment within the institutions, in society and in the national and international economy. We had the concern that the investigative activity related to this decree-law aid- bis could encounter some misunderstandings, the absence of a public deliberative spirit and perhaps the prevalence of specific reasons of part. We were able to compose a work of which we are satisfied, which led to a unanimous vote within the two Permanent Commissions of Inquiry. For this reason, before the essential merit that I wish to recall, let me express my gratitude and gratitude to my colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and to those who, on behalf of the Government, have facilitated a cognitive activity of deepening, which has allowed us to overcome the misunderstandings, the distances and the differences that we have experienced on some issues. This decree-aid law-a was created to deal with a kind of breakdown of civilizations concerning energy supply. On the way, we found the urgency to find a solution to the problem of superbonus, in order to guarantee the continuity of the shipbuilding referred to the great challenge of living regeneration with purposes of seismic and energetic resistance. After intense working sessions, we were able to find the square, which was possible thanks to what was once called a secular spirit, without ideology, which exalted the merit of the issues. In the same way, on the experienced teacher, who had ballast an important contract signed with Brussels, called PNRR, we managed to make a recovery of sustainability of the norm. There are also numerous punctual interventions, which have allowed the original rule to assume greater capacity for operation. I would like to quote only one rule for all of them, congratulating my colleagues very much. Finally, even in Italy, the underground regulatory plan for networks, superstructures and sub-services is born, which will allow contracting stations to proceed without having surprises and also to those who realize - allow me - extra profit from the location of infrastructures and fibers to have an interlocutor, connoisseur and landowner, to know everything there is in the subsoil. This is also to promote the capacity to implement the significant measures of the PNRR. There is an important rule that favours the mergers of municipalities, just as there is an important one that responds to the precarious calls centers of the INPS: I must therefore thank my colleagues Missa and Dell'Olio and those of the Commissions, who have exalted the reasons for the value of the related amendment. Similarly, a perspective is given to the children who have participated and won the selection of PNRR officials, in order to ensure that they know a possibility of stabilisation. A clear word is said about the servants of the State, for reasons of public order, security, or high administration, who will know a recovery of the dignity of the employment contract. We have made an important reflection, with the production of rules, on all the work fragility. I therefore congratulate my colleagues, I renew my thanks and I hope that the work of this and the other branch of Parliament will further help Italian society and our economy to get out of the trouble of an attack at the heart of our civilization, as regards the functioning of the economy and the encounter between question and answer of rights. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u8	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u9	Mr President, I rise to thank all those who have participated in the drafting, the investigation, the approval and all the stages that have led to the amendments to the decree-law in question. It has been a long and complex work, but it has led with determination and consistency, I would also say with friendship among the Groups, to effective and efficient solutions for our country: I refer first of all to the problem raised on the subject of superbonus. We can say that 40,000 Italian companies have an additional hope that their credits can be unlocked. Perhaps it will not be the final solution, but we have certainly made a huge contribution and I am really very satisfied with the work done by all the Groups, who nevertheless understood the need to intervene, to wait, to study and to understand what was the best solution, which then arrived. I do not stop here, because many changes have been approved, always thanks to the help of all, in support of those who are worse. I really thank my fellow Members because, although this is not the first time we have dealt with disability, this time in a special way we have done something extraordinary for people who were waiting for justice, in terms of compensation. This justice had already been recognised by the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately it had not yet had a concrete response from Parliament. This response came, for the sick by thalidomide, who unfortunately live a life of suffering. I must say, therefore, that the present Parliament, when it closes, has indeed done an act of goodness, loyalty, fairness and consistency, giving a concrete response to these people, who really do honour to everyone. We have also added other things: there are people always in difficulty to do the shopping and pay the bills, which unfortunately cannot reach the end of the month. These people may also have debts, they pay with pensions what they owe, but sometimes they don't. It was therefore necessary to raise the threshold for the impregnability of pensions, which was raised, thanks to the work carried out by the Commissions, from EUR 750 to EUR 1,000. At least for now, so these people may have some extra resources to do the shopping. [[Applause]] This is a measure that I think really fills this branch of Parliament with pride. We have adopted other measures for the municipalities, which will be able to spend money on work started in 2019 which they have not managed to conclude and which they can safely conclude using these resources. We have also included in the text rules for firefighters, who were waiting for the implementation of measures adopted in the budget law with regard to their pensions. So a lot of things have been done. I thank everyone once again and, after four and a half years of work, I sincerely thank the officials and all those involved who have helped us to facilitate work in the Commission and in this House. Thank you all so much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u11	Mr President, I will not go into the technical aspects of the Decree-Law on Aids, because it is to a large extent a re-statement of the first Decree-Law on Aids. These are necessary measures, but if we have to ask ourselves whether they are enough, I think the answer is negative. We get out of a difficult situation: first the pandemic, then what happened in the world with the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, and therefore the change of spheres of influence in the world, the need to provide for the diversification of our energy needs, which seemed not to fall within the first needs of governments and Italy. We have discovered how vulnerable we have been both from a health, health and energy point of view. I have also heard in these days someone who even proposed to keep the temperature at 19 degrees in the houses; I wonder how it is possible to verify it and I also wonder if the person who can pay the bill quietly keeps the temperature at 19 degrees. It seemed silly to me to have appeared in some news, and I hope it is not justified in the measures we are dealing with. Speaking of energy, let me give a small example: for the painting of a house we have a 60% reduction; for the installation of a photovoltaic panel of 50%; therefore, we should have had to affect measures that efficiently, from the energy point of view, this transition to the so-called transition and a green economy, therefore cleaner, but I believe that today the issue is more political. It seems to me that history, as always, repeats itself. You will return quickly to 1951, when the Economic Community of Coal and Steel (the so-called ECSC) was set up: De Gasperi, Adenauer, Schuman and Monnet shared the need to control and unify the supplies and supplies of what had been at the centre of the previous conflicts. From there there have been a number of treaties, including the Treaty of Rome, which is the foundation of the European Community, as we know. I agree with President Draghi's policy, which has been summed up in a formula taken from the rules of the game of tit for tat, of striking a blow at each other. It was an effective policy, which I shared. One country, Russia, has unmistakably attacked a free state such as Ukraine and has upset the world right now. We are in a difficult situation, because, as soon as we got out of the pandemic, we entered a further situation, which sees the world divided between democracies, on the one hand, and non-democratic systems, on the other. Italy, however, is also a strange country, it is Italy of the no: no TAV, no TAP, no regasifiers. It would have to be said that Italy is a country where, sometimes, the people are almost the enemy of the people. Simply see what happened in Puglia, where there have even been violent agitations and referendums that said no at the entrance of the gas pipeline from Crimea to Europe passing through Puglia, work demanded and wanted strongly by Europe. This is therefore Italy of the no. I don't know how much time I still have in my position, can I finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave her a chance to continue. BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. I do not know if we are faced with a new division of the world into spheres of influence that sees, as I said before, on the one hand democracies and on the other the non-democratic systems (China, Russia), between different models of life that I do not know how far they will live together. I do not know to what extent globalisation, which has taken many people out of hunger, will guarantee this. Allow me to say goodbye with a quote from Victor Hugo, who said in 1849: there will come a day when France, England, Germany, Italy and Russia, without losing their glorious tradition, will merge into a superior unity. There will be a day when these two immense groups, the United States of Europe and the United States of America, will be seen in front of each other, holding hands above the oceans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u13	Mr President, we are here discussing the further measure called 'aid', but which unfortunately contains nothing for families and small and medium-sized enterprises, there is nothing to overcome this very serious crisis in which they have been dragged. I say that they have been dragged because from an analysis of what has happened in the last year and a half, we see that the policies implemented during this last period have done everything to bring about this very serious economic and social condition. Indeed, all the measures that have been taken are in the direction of entering into the conflict in the heart of Europe, that between Ukraine and Russia, sending weapons - not instruments to act by diplomatic means, but weapons to continue this very serious conflict - and applying sanctions to Russia. Well, by studying history a little, it could well be known that such sanctions and political choices would be paid - as they did then - by the people, thus abandoning any possibility of putting an end to this very serious conflict by diplomatic action. Of course, I want to focus on what I have been dealing with over the last four and a half years, namely agriculture and fisheries. Once again, the requests from these two sectors, which I had translated into amendments to the measure before us, have been totally ignored. I had asked for the financial moratorium, a bonus to try to alleviate the great difficulties in which the companies are located because of the expensive diesel oil and also the renewal of the agricultural bill, considering that the measure Ismea U35, approved with the previous measure, is affected by a rate of 5%. The banks, in fact, rather than facilitating companies in this terrible situation with 100% funding guaranteed by a public institution such as Ismea, demand 5% interest. All these amendments have, of course, been rejected. In the measure under discussion we continue to find the sale of the credit, which had been granted with the previous measure that serves no purpose to the companies: it has been testified to the application that has been made, almost zero, in the first three years of the current year. Unfortunately, we have seen that, because of the measures taken, as many as 70,000 farms have already been closed. Of course all this has happened and happens with the approval of all parties that formed the majority. It is of no use now, during the election campaign, to go to the squares and say 'I no longer trust Draghi', because 58 trusts have been given that have reduced small and medium-sized enterprises and families on the pavement. Therefore, to claim no longer to be part of the majority that supports this Government is a great falsehood, because it has been supported for year and a half, bringing Italy to the edge of the abyss. Once again, even in this measure we find nothing for VAT consignments, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for agriculture, which is found to have not only bank exposures but also access by the judicial officer. That being said, my Group's vote and my own, in particular, of farmers and fishermen, will be against this measure. Given that this is my last speech, and not only in this parliamentary term, because I have not re-launched myself (even if I have not missed the opportunities), I would like to say to the people, and in particular to the whole category of farmers and fishermen, that I will continue to carry out their battles, together with them, with farmers and fishermen, in the squares, in the fields, on the docks of ports. From there we will listen and from there our voice will arrive in these palaces that I have well known for four and a half years, with the hope that there will be something good and that there will be a listening. But I'm afraid this is going to get worse and worse. I would like to thank all those who have given me their trust from the outset and who have not missed their support throughout my term of office. I have remained in contact with them; I have remained in contact with people and territories. I thank them for the honour they have given me by making myself represent myself in this House. I'm putting my warrant back in their hands. I will be with them, at their side, in their battles, first of all for the recognition of the cost of production in agriculture and fisheries. I conclude by saying: live the honest citizens of this nation and live every government that will protect the honest citizens of this nation. Thank you all again. I thank my colleagues, whom I greet with respect and some with esteem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u15	Mr President, today we are debating an important, necessary and also urgent measure, which will not, however, be sufficient intervention. We already know that we are going to need a third tranche of aid and that until we finally intervene on the price of energy, we will risk only a continuous chase. Minister Franco pointed out that taxing part of the cost of energy, as we have been doing for a year now (5 billion in 2021 and 33 billion in 2022, through bonuses, tax credits, reduced excise duties, sterilization of the system charges and the 200 euro bonus), is certainly important for the contentious effect on inflation, but it cannot be a mechanism to be repeated indefinitely, because it would have very high costs without ever being able to cover the burden for families and businesses. Action is therefore needed on the mechanisms for the formation of electricity prices at national and gas levels at European level in a decisive and decisive way. This means first of all understanding these mechanisms. Why, for example, is the price of gas rising so much and why is it reflected in the energy bill? Let's start with the title transfer facility (TTF), the Amsterdam stock exchange's natural gas market index - I would like to say the Amsterdam market - where, in the end, only 3 or 4 percent of real gas trading is traded. The TTF then consists, in turn, of the TTF spot, the price of gas delivered in the short term or the day after, and of the futures TTF, for long-term contracts. Attention, however, we are talking about a virtual gas market. You don't buy gas with futures, but you buy bets on the prices and future deliveries of the raw material and it's not even the only market where this happens. On energy, then, as in other sectors, a financial market has developed over the years where financial products are bought and sold and are the subject of huge speculations and huge returns from the hedge fund on the shoulders of European citizens and businesses. These markets function perfectly until they produce a financial bubble or, as in this case, do not change the external conditions, such as the international tensions that have occurred since the invasion of Ukraine. The financial speculation that is developing today in Amsterdam has some similarities with the financial storm of 2008 and certainly has the same type of financial incursors that caused that disaster. Everyone claims the freedom of markets, but national governments and European organisations cannot fail to act quickly and harshly when the economic survival and social cohesion of the peoples who have expressed them are at stake. Is it therefore mandatory to adhere to the so-called Dutch TTF gas price? No. And so it is good for the Italian Government to demand a European price cap, overcoming the resistance of some clever government that at other times professed to be rigorist. If we have not yet achieved the desired result of a roof at the price of Russian gas, it is because of the pressure of two European countries; in particular, Germany, whose industry cannot survive without Russian gas and which probably pays a third of what we and Hungary pay for. We are not talking about Holland, which has everything to gain from the status quo. The delay in European intervention is damaging Italian citizens and businesses, with entire production chains that risk death by suffocation. With regard to electricity, however, we can also make another national intervention on the formation of the national single price (PUN), surpassing the system of marginal price. This system means that the same price will also be paid to production plants able to offer energy at lower costs, has so far been an indirect incentive to renewable energy production, but today it creates an unjustified extra profit for electricity producers against any increase in production costs. Where is the solution? Dividing the electricity market produced by gas from that of other energy sources. Renewable sources would in any case have the advantage of selling at the highest price offered, but avoiding the current distortion of the market. We need, therefore, a very courageous intervention. The current situation, as you know, is the result of several mistakes in the energy strategy and, above all, of delays in infrastructure development over the last few years. All the political forces present today in Parliament have turned to the government of the country, in different formations or alliances: from the 5 Star Movement, which on the Nimby movements, has built its fortune; to the center-left, which has often lingered on environmental ideological positions; to the center-right, which in the past has allowed itself to go on some occasion to rearguard battles. We only hope that the new Government will put our country in a position to take advantage of all technological innovations through the impulse to research. I am thinking of storage systems, fundamental for the full use of discontinuous sources, as well as the development of wave production or the underwater cooling mechanisms of data centers. The national energy bill, as has already been said, has risen from 43 billion in 2021 to probably 100 billion at the end of this year. This, of course, also affects the balance of trade. Finally, it is certainly useful, as the Government has decided, to prepare a plan of reduction of the consumption that promotes the good practices, like the use of the appliances in the evening and night working hours and the energy efficiency of the buildings and the houses, also through reductions of the taxation on the real estate. In this short and summer election campaign we should all get rid of unnecessary controversy, avoid unrealistic promises and instead noun ourselves with concreteness and differentiate ourselves in contrasts of recipes and visions of the country, which, I hope and we all hope, have as their objective the growth of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the scenario is as follows. We live in bad times and it's not over. Russian Winter General defeated Napoleon and Hitler. In the coming autumn-winter, by closing the taps to us, he can win again. The decree before our examination, apart from various bonuses that we cannot fail to approve (tax credit, VAT reduction on gas, cut of the tax wedge, early revaluation of pensions), contains the necessary and desired regulations on the superbonus 110%. I open a parenthesis: bonuses are a temporary palliative; they will serve more and more, unfortunately due. The system must be overturned: to avoid, contain and create conditions for increases to be reduced, first of all by working towards the cessation of war and to determine a powerful economic growth with the increase of GDP. Unfortunately, in the decree, once again attacked by too many amendments of all kinds ten days after the elections, the matter of superbonus 110% is important. The text, reworded by the Government in this regard, which also contains an amendment of Forza Italia, 42.0.2, is vital for the release of credits. We are besieged in every way by citizens, associations and businesses that are likely to fail: there are 40,000 companies. The elimination of joint responsibility, except for malice or gross negligence, is a breath of oxygen for the banks' ability to acquire and liquidate the claims, I hope under conditions that are not vexatory. It was also necessary to extend by 39 or to reduce to 30 percent of the work to be carried out by that date. In fact, the superbonus has been very tortured: decrees-laws to abundantiam, amendments of all kinds, circulars of the Revenue Agency beyond the limits, in my opinion, of interpretations, opinions different from other bodies. Appropriate certainty and timing are needed, including to cool prices, from which inflation results. If everyone asks for the same article because the work for which the superbonus was requested is to be completed, and also the PNRR is in place for public administrations, prices can only rise. I hope that the new Government will carry out a general simplification review with a reduction of 80% - or so - and realistic time for execution. For current practices, with certain dates, it is essential to approve the decree-law now in the reformulated text with regard to the superbonus 110%: it is a partial solution to a harmful situation and a source of concern for so many citizens, who are also voters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u18	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u19	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the last session of this Parliament and we are faced with a very worrying picture of the situation in Italy and the Italians. We are about to vote on the conversion into law of this so-called aid decree. There is a great need for aid, but it must be real aid, which can be structural and lasting. We don't need any confections. We need a real change of pace. Unfortunately, on the other hand, we continue to talk about drops, about minor interventions. It seems that much of the Government does not realize the extreme need for immediate solutions, useful for a real recovery and not only to keep everyone nailed to the edge of a cliff, families and businesses. The measure provides for a package of measures of 17 billion and it is already known that it will be insufficient. We are still talking about the 200 euro bonus, now rightly extended to another 300,000 workers, including PhD students and PhD students who have so far been excluded from it, but which is absolutely irrelevant. For the increase of bills and fuels, 8.4 billion are allocated for the extension of the discounts provided for in the previous decrees, now due, but the increases are expected to exceed the past. The solutions that are needed must be others and in the long term. Almost 195 million were allocated for the exercise of agricultural and fisheries activities to extend the tax credit to 20% of the costs incurred for fuel purchases in the third quarter of 2022 and a further extraordinary contribution, again as a tax credit, for the purchase of electricity and natural gas in favour of companies that have experienced an increase in the cost per kilowatt greater than 30 per cent for the same period of 2019. To aggravate all this, these increases in agriculture add to the damage caused by natural disasters and for this reason the National Solidarity Fund has been increased with an additional EUR 200 million to be shared between the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces that have suffered and denounced the damage. The aim of the measure is to allow the companies to access the planned interventions in order to promote the resumption of economic and productive activity, to protect livestock and permanent crops and to recover the advances for the damages suffered. Another measure in support of agriculture is the transversal measure which provides some benefit to agricultural undertakings with employees, as provided for in Article 19, which contains the partial exemption of social security contributions up to the end of the year, including the thirteenth. The impact on the sector's direct economy is almost nothing, however, because the costs faced by farmers erode the already low income: an old problem that of the too low cost of agricultural products, which has now reached the limit. The farmers of my land, Puglia, and not only them, are ready to give up the harvest of grapes and the sowing of wheat, given the increase of the general costs and at the same time the decrease of the selling price. Of fundamental importance is to ensure a reasonable price for agricultural products, by securing them from speculation or from a lack of planning that leads to a difficult management on the market: this in order to avoid the enormous problems that would result, not least the loss of food sovereignty that would see us dependent from abroad not only on energy. The downward race must be stopped. The speculations in place are to be condemned and brought to justice. There has been so much talk of recovering funds by taxing extra profits from energy companies, but the established rule has proved wrong. What has been done is of no use. The EUR 9 billion provided for by these taxes did not even enter. A corrective action is now being tried by giving the companies obliged to pay the tax and which did not do so by 31 August for the advance and 15 December for the balance of no longer being able to enjoy the provisions on active repentance. The 5 Star Movement was the only forward-looking political force. We have been aiming our feet for six months now to get our hands on the solutions that have largely listed and represented the rapporteur just now, not least the solution on the transfer of credits for the works carried out with the bonus of 110%. I would like to emphasise another very important aspect that can be the solution for the dear energy, namely the European joint purchasing plan, always aiming at strengthening European solidarity (so everything to be done in Europe). The calmer roof is indispensable, but it will not be enough: we have to assert ourselves in Europe, as did President Giuseppe Conte in the pandemic period. Italy needs good representatives to get the respect we deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u20	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last decree-law to be converted by this Parliament. It's all very singular and unreleased. We are in the election campaign, everything is very fast and the period is worrying (I refer in particular to the crisis, especially of an economic nature). My personal opinion is that today we must demonstrate more than ever our seriousness and our sense of responsibility, by converting an important decree-law, which is worth over 17 billion euros. The Lega Group has worked on improving issues left unresolved by the decree, with the submission of amendments and trying to share common themes with the other groups. We have strongly proposed solutions to the problems of superbonus 110%. In particular, mediation has enabled us to reach agreement on the amendment on joint responsibility, which is the crucial issue that has blocked the transfer of tax credit to households and businesses. At least this problem will be resolved here in this House. Our amendments accepted in the Commission contain simplification measures in the area of exceptional transport and installation of photovoltaic systems, as well as provisions in favour of the municipalities. Of course, much remained outside the decree. I am thinking, in particular, of the issue of drought, which could be addressed here. However, I hope that the appeal on the agenda on which the Government has committed itself will be accepted in the next aid decree. Let us return to Parliament's responsibility in converting the decree which - let us not forget - contains measures which are certainly inadequate but necessary. I would like to point out that this measure extended the 30 cent discount on fuel excise duties to 20 September. It will be little, but who this summer has been in countries like Spain and France has been surprised positively that there the fuels cost (and cost) just 30 cents more than Italy. In addition, the cancellation of the system charges on household bills was extended to the fourth quarter. Also in this case, it may be a small measure (in the sense that we know very well that the household bills have increased enormously), but if you do not convert this decree also decays this measure that still goes to help the families. The social bonus for electricity and gas has also been strengthened, even though we have learned what we know. For this reason, my appeal to Parliament is always to be concrete, going to see the efficiency and effectiveness of the regulations that are adopted here. In the real world, this measure faces great difficulties, because families have problems obtaining it because of the ISEE communication mechanism: paradoxically, in fact, it is automatic only for citizens' income recipients, while families have great difficulty getting this bonus. The possibility for companies to provide corporate benefits of up to 600 euros has also been raised. This is good because wages and salaries are losing purchasing power very quickly. Our idea, which I also expressed in an amendment that I proposed, is to be able to combat inflation, and to act accordingly on the tax wedge, giving the employer the opportunity to provide tax-free increases. I mean that when a company spends 100 euros on an increase, it is impossible for the worker to receive about 40 euros in the paycheck. So you have to think about taxing what you want to give the worker extra. They are all measures that can be improved, but we cannot do without them. With another amendment we had asked to give a further possibility of remission of the deferred payment of the maxirate at the end of July of the scrap-b. We have also proposed to eliminate the deadline of 30 September as regards the superbonus 110% on the villas. These are all measures which the next so-called aid-b measure should take into account. I would just like to end by saying that it takes a great deal of sense of reality at the moment, with respect for families and businesses that really see inflation rampant. The government must therefore find solutions to this situation which I would venture to call dramatic. In conclusion, I would like to thank all my colleagues, offices, Commissions 5a and 6a and their respective Presidents for the great work they have done over the years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u23	Mr President, today I would have liked to spend some time with my 87-year-old mother Rina, because, as you know, at that age every moment is precious, but duty calls me once again in this House for one of the last speeches of this legislature. This was a legislature that has seen us discuss and approve so many epochal measures wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars in favor of the citizens, but it certainly cannot be defined in the same way the decree-law today under discussion. It is the second decree-law aid that does not help anyone, or at least does not help enough, as it should have done. One of the many recurring mantras that you have certainly heard us say for at least a year now is that an extraordinary situation such as the one we are experiencing requires extraordinary measures. Well, the decree-law under consideration has nothing extraordinary at all, yet the current crisis was all but unpredictable. It is very strange that the government of the best has not been so prudent. [[Applause]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost a year since we asked for measures against expensive energy, which were further exacerbated by the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, but already present following the post-pandemic reopenings. Last March, even our proposals were put in black and white in a motion signed by my colleagues Pesco and Cioffi, but signed by a large part of the Movimento 5 Star Group. Those last spring were complex months, we remember them well. We remember above all what the priorities of the other parties were: someone was intent on preparing the norm on the incinerator of Rome, which would then be surreptitiously inserted within the decree-law aid. There were also those who worked to increase military spending, bringing it up to 2% of GDP. [[Applause]] , which you are returning to today in the general silence at the end of the parliamentary term. Tell the citizens how you intend to spend their money. These were and are the priorities of the parties, while our country continues to experience a devastating economic and energy crisis. No one really deals with the needs of the citizens, no one but us, who have always had them as the polar star of our political action. We have tried to convince you of the goodness of our proposals in every possible forum, in the Council of Ministers, in the Commission, here in this House: we have done so even by means of the famous letter that our President Giuseppe Conte sent to Prime Minister Draghi in July. Our words have always fallen into the void, until the President-in-Office of the Council has decided to throw away the mask and attack us frontally. [[Applause]] Do you remember that? It was only a few weeks ago in this House: an unworthy, intellectually dishonest and even institutionally disconcerted attack, which focused precisely on one of our most important measures, the superbonus. It is a shame that the State does not honor a legitimate contract. [[Applause]] We were accused of being irresponsible just a few days ago because we asked to put to the vote the amendments which would unblock the mechanism for the movement of tax credits and save thousands of companies on the brink of the abyss. Now, as if of enchantment, everything has changed and those who threw at us those slanderous accusations, today, in fact, we are right: the election campaign does miracles. [[Applause]] Yet it seems from the agencies that this result is due to the parties that until yesterday have completely ignored the problems of the construction sectors, the same parties that, together with the Government, have buried the superbonus, endorsing their worsening and schizophrenic changes. Just to restore the truth, in all these months alongside the thousands of businesses, professionals and citizens blocked because of these changes there was only the Movimento 5 Stars - let's be clear - the only party that can take the merits of this measure and the corrective approved today, which hopefully can unlock its functioning. At the same time, however, I have to admit that I am envious of all those who have the courage to go and take not their own merits, looking into the eyes of the entrepreneurs that they themselves have brought on the brink of failure and the citizens who have found themselves insolvent for having relied on this measure. I mean to all of them, it doesn't end here and it doesn't end like this. History will give us reason, a story that will start again from September 25, when citizens will restore our trust, allowing us to continue to change the country, projecting it towards an economically sustainable future. If that's the case, who wants to take him back to the old charms? We are on the right side; We have Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u24	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u25	I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u26	Madam President, I would like to say that in this case the reply does not reply, but it does note and photograph the great work we have done, as well as a widespread convergence that has become the heritage of the work of this House and of the legal order. It would be nice to compose each time this spirit from the end of the legislature with the awareness of the gravity that has concerned us. If this could happen every time, we would have capacious rules, capable of covering and, above all, with a motivation that really generates its full functioning. I do not forget that the rules establish the virtuous line of collective conduct: in this case on the bill of conversion of the aid-a decree there really was a construction site converging with a constitutional spirit. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u27	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u28	Madam President, I agree with what Mr D'Alfonso said. In the work of the Commission, there was indeed a spirit of full sharing among the Groups: there was no majority, there was no opposition, but only the desire to share the most appropriate, fair and correct choices for Italian citizens, especially for those most in difficulty. Much still remains to be done, for example on the superbonus. We know that unfortunately, as many Members have said, the deadline of 30 September has not been changed. But I do not despair, in the sense that, given that awareness and reasonableness have arrived at such a late moment on the part of the Government, I am confident that much can still be done. I know it is under discussion and a new decree-law is being drafted. In my opinion, many things on the superbonus could be done by decree aid ter. I can only thank everyone again, including the members of the Government, who helped us to carry out the work and facilitate the discussion. I see here all the Undersecretaries of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and their relations with Parliament. I would like to thank everyone once again, and that concludes my speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u29	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I suspend the sitting pending the opinion of the 5th Commission on the amendments and conclusions of the Conference of Leaders, which is currently under way. (The sitting was suspended at 13.26 a.m. and resumed at 14.15 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u30	Colleagues, the Conference of the Leaders has re-modulated the time of discussion of the decree-aid law- bis, in order to reach the final vote of the measure by 5 p.m. today. Therefore, for the final explanations of vote each group will have five minutes; ten minutes for the amendments. At the end of the discussion of the decree-law, the Assembly will examine the report on the updating of public finance objectives, for the approval of which is required the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. Following the rapporteur's statement, we will proceed directly to the final explanations of vote, for which five minutes have been allocated to each group. The vote on the report will take place at around 6 p.m. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.17 p.m. and resumed at 14.38 p.m.) Since the Commission has not yet completed its work, I shall suspend the sitting until 3.10 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.38 p.m. and resumed at 3.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u32	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3.8. In order to allow for a smooth understanding also to my fellow Members, I would point out that on all the amendments tabled by the Commissions together the opinion of the rapporteurs is in favour. We therefore reject all the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u33	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u36	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u37	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senators Causin and Pacific. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.15 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur has expressed an opinion against it. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.22, tabled by Senator Causin, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the Government representative to give an opinion on the G6.1 agenda, on which the rapporteur gave a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u38	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u39	Having been accepted by the Government, the G6.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.0.19, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.24, tabled by Senator Richetti and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Lannutti and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Richetti and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator Abate and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u40	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u42	ABATE (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 7.0.8. The fishermen can no longer go out at sea for the very high cost of diesel. With the amendment to our examination, I asked for a bonus to at least try to resume fishing, given the current standstill. Otherwise, we will have a large number of small and medium-sized fishing enterprises that are going to skip because, as we know, the costs of gas oil with regard to fishing are an important item, which would prevent the resumption of activity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u43	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.8, tabled by Senator Abbot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.0.0.9 tabled by Senator Abate and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.00, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Let us move on to Amendment 9.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u44	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u46	ABATE (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, Amendment 9.1 is crucial this day. I asked for an increase of EUR 2 million for bus companies in the transport sector, because they are making redundancies. At this very moment, I have received 70 letters of dismissal from a bus company in my province and others will arrive later. This means that, within a week, 140 families, mainly single-income, will remain absolutely without sustenance. Here too, therefore, support and help should be given to the most fragile families, victims of this very serious crisis. But I see that nobody cares.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u47	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.150 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.0.2 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.0.7 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which the rapporteurs have already expressed a favourable opinion. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 11.12 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Pacifico, on which the 5 The Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G13.150 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u48	Mr President, on this parliamentary initiative, at the first signature of Senator Briziarelli, who recovers Amendment 13.0.2, there was a commitment in the Commissions to turn it into a demanding agenda and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u49	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u50	I ask Senator Briziarelli if he insists on voting on the agenda G13.150.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u51	Mr President, in these terms I welcome the transformation of the agenda. I am speaking out of respect, not only for the House, in particular for the Members of all the Groups who have signed the amendment, but for all those who are waiting for an intervention on the subject of drought outside the Chamber: not only for the citizens, the categories and in particular the farmers and the tourism sector, but also for the local authorities and the regions, who alone cannot deal with such an issue. The theme of water, together with that of energy, is not a theme; it is the theme, from here to the future. In this decree there is only one article, which was recovered from what was to be the decree drought, which the Government as a whole, even with the support of the opposition, should have submitted. We can't just take care of the damage and redo it. We need to work in prevention to prevent and understand what can happen. The government had proposed a technical table. In the election campaign a technical table may be useful, but I believe that it is more just and more correct for an entire Parliament to express itself and, in front of the country, make a commitment to the next Government, in a framework that looks to the future and sees us, at least on a subject like this, all united and committed. Of course, everyone looks at their territory. I look at the Trasimeno; others look at the Po, the lakes or the rivers and at a problem that is really common. For this reason, I believe that we need, on the one hand, seriousness, but, on the other, also responsibility and courage to express themselves on this. That is why I call for the House to express itself and vote, so that those who wish to put this issue as an item on the priority agenda from here to the future will remain in the record. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u52	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G13.150, presented by Senator Briziarielli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u53	I address the greeting of the Presidency and the Assembly to the students and teachers of the Law degree course of the University of Innsbruck, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u54	We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.5 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.7 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16.8, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 16.11 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.12 tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.19, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.18, by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 16.21 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.22 tabled by Senator Lannotti, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.0.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u55	Mr President, I rise to draw the attention of this House, thanking my fellow Members, the Commissions and the Ministers of Education, for we finally have a plan for regulating the subsoil of Italian territories. Through this registry, we will know exactly what is underground in Italy on the level of structures, infrastructures and networks and this will facilitate the realization of public works, even those financed by the PNRR.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u56	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.0.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 16.0.8 tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 17.3 (text 3), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.4 tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 19 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.2, tabled by Senator Lannutti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.4, tabled by Senator Presutto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 20 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.0.1, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.0.3 tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 20.0.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 21 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 21,1000, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 21.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u59	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for this amendment, which is a gesture of humanity towards people who have truly ridiculous pensions, who will now be able to enjoy a limit to a little higher impregnability (from EUR 750 to EUR 1,000), and in favour of their needs, because they really do not have the resources to get to the end of the month. So thank you, Mr President, and thank you to all colleagues. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u60	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 21.0.2 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 22 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.0.1, tabled by Senators Causin and Pacific, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 22.0.3 (text 2) has been put aside. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 23 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u63	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I know that the G23.150 agenda received the rapporteur's favourable opinion. However, the order of business was changed by mistake. I prefer to maintain the amendment, understanding that it can have a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u64	Amendment 23.0.7 comes back to life and the rapporteur confirms my opposition. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G23.1 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.0.7 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 23.0.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 23.0.1000, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.0.10 tabled by Senator Cangini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.0.11 tabled by Senator Cangini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.0.13 tabled by Senator Cangini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 24 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.1 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 24.2 tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.2a, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.3 tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the government is in favour of the G24.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u67	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u68	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment G24.1, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.0.4 tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.6 tabled by Senator Gallicchio and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 24.0.9 tabled by Senators Causin and Pacific, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 24.0.11 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to ask you to go into more detail on Amendment No 24.0.6, because the dossier does not correspond to what has happened. I have to understand if the same amendment is included in the file with other numbers.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u70	We voted - and rejected - on Amendment 24.0.6, on which the Budget Committee had expressed an opinion. , rapporteur. There is a discrepancy between the dossier and what has been decided in the Commission. I therefore call for it to be re-analysed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would there be a discrasing attitude to the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission? PESCO, rapporteur. Yes, it is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Will you give me your opinion, please? The opinion written by the 5th Commission is contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, so I confirm the previous vote as well as the opinion. OIL. I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. OIL. Mr President, we had sent a message to withdraw all these amendments, so we find it odd that it was included in the file. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All that was previously requested to be withdrawn is no longer in the file.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u73	D'ALFONSO, rapporteur. Mr President, as Mr Pesco points out, there is a documentary mismatch and there are moments of verification for this discrepancy in the documentation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u74	It seems that the amendment has also been withdrawn, but in the document which has been forwarded to me by the Budget Commission, Amendment 24.0.6 appears to be contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. D'ALFONSO (PD). Let us proceed then, because the clarification has arrived. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 25 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The rapporteur's opinion on the G25.1 agenda is in favour. I call on the Government representative to express his views on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u75	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u76	Having been accepted by the Government, the G25.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.0.1, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u79	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, because of the misalignment that was noted by the rapporteur, I believe that we have voted on the G24.1 agenda, signed by Senator Ciampolillo. In this regard, we want to make it clear that the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u80	We take note of that. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 25.0.9 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 27 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.1, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.1, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 27.0.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u83	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, I rise to clarify briefly the scope of amendment 27.0.02. First, however, I would like to thank Minister Giovannini, who has repeatedly urged me on the importance of this work for the territory, not only Piedmont, but also Ligurian, as well as the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a which approved this text. The amendment in fact makes it possible for the extraordinary Commissioner to create a masterplan that develops the whole area in economic and social terms, regenerating development and the environment, both urban and environmental. This will allow new prospects for economic and social development throughout the area, as well as other European retroports. We are talking about sustainability in transport, but in this case also about economic sustainability, because on this amendment no additional resources have been set aside - I would like to say this - but those already present in the fund allocated in 2018 by Minister Toninelli are used simply. It is therefore an amendment of vision and development of an area that concerns the logistics of Piedmont, Liguria and, I would say, the entire North-West.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u84	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 27.0.2 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 30 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.1, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u87	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to thank the Group, which has enabled me to table this amendment, as well as the many Members of the Commission who wanted to sign it. I would also like to thank the representative of the Government, because we are working towards a company undergoing restructuring and that, with this amendment, can see the future more rosy. We are talking about a society that is interested in aluminium and that is located in a territory that is among the poorest in Italy. Thank you very much, therefore, to everyone, to the Presidents of the Commission, who wanted to encourage the process of this amendment and to all the Members who wanted to sign it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u88	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 30.4 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to agenda G30.1, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u89	Mr President, the opinion on the agenda is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u90	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G30.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u91	Having been accepted by the Government, the G30.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 31 of the Decree-Law, which are described. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 31.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u94	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I have maintained this amendment, which is very important as far as we are concerned, which has been directly related to another decision taken in Decree-Law No 36 of 2022, which established company 3-I, with the aim of making databases interoperable. As I have already said in the Commission - and I remind the Government and the Undersecretary - I withdraw the amendment and ask for it to be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u95	I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u96	Mr President, in order to make it easier to understand those who are currently working in this House and who have not participated in the Commission's work, we have worked on a number of thematic issues to turn the amendments into agendas for consideration in this House. Mrs De Petris has made a great gesture on this front and it is right to recognize that effort. In the same way, there are other initiatives that I have previously represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u97	In view of the way in which the text of the measure has arrived in this House and which many of the amendments have been withdrawn and changed to the agenda, I shall proceed to the vote on all the amendments in order to resume the discussion of the agenda at the end. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 31.0.3 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us now turn to the amendment and the agenda relating to Article 32 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 32.1 tabled by Senator Causin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the order of business, Mr G32,150.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u100	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Senator Craxi and I would like to add the signature to the agenda G32.150, to Senator Salvini's first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u101	I see no objection, so the agenda is intended to be signed. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the G32.150 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u102	Mr President, I am in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u103	Mr President, I accept the agenda for G32.150.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u104	Having been accepted by the Government, the G32.150 agenda will not be put to the vote. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G33.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u105	Mr President, I am in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u106	Mr President, I accept the agenda G33.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u109	FENU (M5S). Mr President, I am only speaking to highlight this agenda. We have tabled an amendment; I imagine that all parties agree on the need for the commitment of the government - or the next one - to extend the deadlines for the work of the superbonus, both for the individual houses (the subject of this agenda) and for the condominiums, because there are many owners who are even out of the house at the moment, because the companies have interrupted the work. [[Applause]] The consequences of a failure to extend would certainly be harmful, both for them and for businesses and for the economic system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u110	Having been accepted by the Government, the G33.3 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 33.0.5, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 33.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u113	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to express our satisfaction at the achievement of this unified text. Today is a good day, when we are really saving thousands of businesses that were on the brink of failure. [[Applause]] And this - let me say this, Mr President - we owe it above all to our stubbornness and not to having accepted, last week, to withdraw all the amendments. [[Applause]] So, as we tried to say, it could be done; in fact, it was done. We have achieved a very good result. I really want to thank those who have worked on this text: Senator Fenu, Senator Dell'Olio, all the members of the Budget Commission, the Government and all the other colleagues. Allow me to say, Mr President, since this is the last speech in this House, that I would like to thank the Senate Offices and all the colleagues of all the political forces with whom I have and have had the honour of working over the years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u116	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, we are also very pleased with this amendment, which responds in a concrete way to a critical situation: 6 billion stranded tax credits, tens of thousands of families and businesses in apprehension. But today we are debating a measure that we could have adopted a week ago, with a meeting point on an amendment that we could have built several days ago. We're doing it now, that's good. We have all worked on it, so I thank the rapporteurs and thank the Government, and we have all voted for it in the Commission. I believe that the fundamental point, beyond the exploitations, is the merit: let us limit the field of responsibility jointly and severally to the dole and grave fault. [[Applause]] and we avoid a pardon, which others would have liked, because we must respond to those families and businesses, but we cannot condone the cons. With this amendment, the solution we all wanted to achieve a serious balance: no condoning and a serious response to the families and businesses that work in compliance with the rules. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u117	Colleagues, be quiet. I don't want to put anyone behind the board, especially those who are standing and undisciplined sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u120	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the result of the unblocking of the sale of credits is certainly not due to a single political force, which has speculated on the issue of superbonus. [[Applause]] , but it is the result of various political forces and in particular of the League, thanks to the mediation work done by the Undersecretary Freni. [[Applause]] If it had not been for the Undersecretary Freni, there would have been the red light in front not only of this amendment, but also of the amendment of the League. An important result has therefore been achieved, allowing thousands of businesses, hundreds of thousands of homeowners and tens of thousands of professionals to get out of the ford. It is regrettable that within the framework of the League's amendments package on the superbonus, the proposed removal of the SAL at 30% has been rejected. [[Applause]] , planned in September, which would allow those who left with work on single-family villas to get out of the swamp where great responsibility certainly has the Movimento 5 Stars, which on the superbonus has deceived thousands and thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of citizens. [[Applause]] The League therefore strongly votes for this amendment, which is certainly due also to the amendment of the League, of Italy alive and of Forza Italia. [[Applause. Vivaci commentati]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, do I begin to send someone out to close up beautifully?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u124	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, I would like to thank everyone, as I did before the Commissions meeting, and also to thank the Government for the adoption of this very important amendment. I think it is everyone's merit, partly because the Government, in a sort of industrious repentance, as I said in the Commission, had previously been prejudiced, in the sense that it claimed that there had been scams. However, the scams were physiological, as we found in the Finance and Treasure Commission, with the Director of the Ruffini Revenue Agency and with the General Commander of the Finance Guard. I feel like thanking all the groups and also the government, because this is an amendment that saves so many companies that they would have closed down, so the credit is for everyone! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u127	I would remind my colleagues, as a warning to sailors, that at 5 p.m. we should have voted on this measure and we are already going further. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, of course the result we have achieved in the Commission is important, but I would like to remind everyone of what happened only last week: it was then seen in the press releases and in everything that happened. The truth is this and in my last speech I am forced to tell you: if the Movimento 5 Stars had not insisted on having this thing, the Government until the last one, until this morning at 9 a.m., would not have produced results. [[Applause]] Having said that, everyone then pushed, convinced that it was necessary to save 40,000 businesses, families and condominiums, because the State had given a word and was not keeping it. But you must always know how to reconstruct things as they are: go and see also the communications you have done in the previous days. [[Applause. Senator Castaldi's comments. Laughter]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u128	Senator Castaldi, I've heard it and I've seen it!
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u131	DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr President, I too would like to thank Parliament as a whole for the work it has done during the examination of the amendments, in particular on the famous superbonus amendment. The satisfaction of a Member of Parliament, who has been calling for a spirit of national unity in the face of the many emergencies for years, comes from the fact that it was also a result at the end of a initially tiring path, but which has borne fruit in the Committee on Finance where, faced with the need to unblock this system, unfortunately blocked by a misconceived norm at the beginning, the barriers between majority and opposition have fallen. I remember that as members of the Finance Committee of all the Groups we asked President D'Alfonso to write - and he is witnessing this - a letter, so to speak, of a call to the government, to the people of the President of the Council and of the Minister for Economic Affairs, because this was a necessary measure. Let me tell you something, colleagues. Attention! I do not understand the great satisfaction that seems to have grasped the essence of the problem and solved all the problems of the superbonus. [[Brusio.]] Now, if, by chance, in everyone's mind, the matter of the superbonus were to hide an electoral treasure, I mean: beware, we must tell the truth to the citizens because we took only one first step, rewriting an elementary norm that had to be so conceived when it was launched. There is all work to be done, in my opinion - and hence satisfaction, but also the warning to citizens who use superbonus and businesses that there is still a lot to do - because we have solved a problem, but we must make an overall speech addressed to the credit system that was, of course, waiting for such a rule, but waiting for more full-bodied ones. This is therefore the beginning of a path which I hope will also be taken by Parliament in the next parliamentary term, because we have not solved all the problems. Therefore, I would like to thank all my colleagues, starting with Senator De Bertoldi, who, despite opposition to everything with his party, in the Finance Committee had the sensitivity to grasp the importance of this issue, causing the wall between majority and opposition to fall for the first time. I invite those who will be there in the next legislature to continue to deepen the criticalities of this measure in order to remove all the difficulties. [[Applause.]] (16:00 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u134	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I was pleased to hear the words of my esteemed colleague, Mr De Petris, when he spoke of rebuilding what happened. And who more than Brothers of Italy does so and with great pleasure? I could list at least 10 speeches which contain the considerations that have led us today to adopt a single and united amendment on this subject: at least 10 times in this House and as many times in the Commission, Brothers of Italy has called on colleagues from other political forces to put an end to the absurd blockade in the transfer of appropriations that were not objectively standing. A block that the Government has repeated and continued for months, supported also and above all by the Movimento 5 Stars that was its first political force. And then out loud we say: well, finally you also realized that that bond was to be removed, because in the superbonus there were no scams, because it was evident that with the visa of conformity of the qualified and insured professionals there could not be scams, as it was evident that the banks carried out an investigative activity in the acquisition of credits. Despite this, despite the fact that the many interventions of Brothers of Italy and myself on this subject are in the archives, a year has passed in which we have blocked most of the works in progress. This is simply an objective demonstration of truth, and it is obviously a reason for complacency, because finally the rest of Parliament also realized that Giorgia Meloni and the Brothers of Italy had seen us just for months, but unfortunately the Government Draghi has been supported on this issue in a truly unacceptable way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u137	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Forza Italia would not have wanted to wave flags, because this was a choral act, but at this point it is the text presented precisely by Forza Italia that will settle the distortions of an original measure misconceived by those who above all would like to make themselves and say themselves paladin of that people that today is denied the transfer of credit because it has no luxury homes or is not solvent according to the banks. Well, Forza Italia is surprised by the exaltation and joy of a Movimento 5 Star that today has wasted so much time on the decree aid. [[Comments.]] You're not letting us lose it, you're letting the country lose it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u138	Senator Gallone, do not accept a dialogue, you are conducting your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u139	Colleagues, I invite you to let Senator Gallone finish. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Addressing the President, I say that they have made the country lose the urgency with which this measure should have been approved and today they are exalted because we are going to approve, thanks to the contribution of Forza Italia and the other Groups, a badly done and badly written measure by people who probably have not even attended the benches of a council of zone or circuit before arriving in Parliament. [[Applause.]] [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u140	I understand there's been a climate since the last day of school, but it seems to me that Senator Gallone's intervention deserved a greater courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u142	Senator, Mr De Bertoldi has already spoken. What do you mean? Drago (FdI). Thank you for giving me the floor. My speech is not an intervention, because my colleague has spoken. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What do you want to intervene on? Drago (FdI). I would like to show concrete support and gratitude for the president. No, Senator, you don't have to prove it. You could only have intervened on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u143	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 33.0.6 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u146	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to add the signature to Amendment 33.0.6 (text 3), with the approval of the Movimento 5 Star Groups and the League.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u147	I take note of your words. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 33.0.6a, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 34 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 34.0.10 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to agenda G34.1, on which I would ask the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u148	Mr President, we have a favourable opinion on the G34.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u149	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u150	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G34.1, tabled by Senators Vanin and Croatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 35 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 35.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 35.0.2 tabled by Senator De Falco, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, to the following words: "Working Report". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 35.0.2-a are therefore excluded. We now come to the examination of the additional amendment to Article 36 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be explained. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 36.0.1, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 37 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.0.1, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.0.2 tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.0.3, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 37.0.6 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 37.0.7 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u153	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I would just like to stress the importance of Amendment 37.0.7 (text 2) which incorporates a draft law signed by me and Senator Urso, which at the time had the accession of virtually all the Groups. We believe it is important to ensure the continuity of the work of the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic also during the period between the date of the elections and the establishment of the new Government, which was not possible to date. This fact, for obvious reasons, goes in the sense of providing a safeguard to our institutional balances and does so with a series of measures that avoid disruptions. A broad consensus has been expressed on this measure, and I welcome it and thank all those who have made it possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u154	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 37.0.7 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 37.0.1000 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 38 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 38.2 tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 38.3 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u157	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that thanks to the rewording of amendment 38.3 the unacceptable qualification as an experienced teacher is no longer there. It has been a rather long journey, but it has led to the failure of the unacceptable form of career defined outside its natural seat, that is, that of bargaining. We have finally been able to put it back in that place. We regret, Mr President, that we have not been heard before because if our amendments had been well read, the Government could also have found a wording capable of resolving those critical issues which we regret and have remained present in the amendment. However, the Government had told us that any other reformulation would receive an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and we did not intend to jeopardise the PNRR's payment. However, we also said that we would not accept a wording that still contained the problems I outlined earlier. However, let me conclude by pointing out the aspects on which we in the Democratic Party will continue to insist. First of all, the act of address must be updated immediately in order to renew the new contract, which is still blocked. We also strongly point out the concern about the legal quantification of the amount of the ad personam cheque, because that is also a contractual prerogative and from our point of view is a precedent that we would have wished to avoid. We still point out that the beneficiaries' audience is too low, 32,000 out of 850,000 teachers. We think there's work to be done here, too. I shall conclude on an extremely illogical aspect, which we have pointed out, but which has not been heard. It is not conceivable that the teacher who receives this type of incentive will remain at the premises for three years. Since the incentive is not linked to any different professional figure, it is not clear why. We wanted these issues to be left to the record, because they are the elements on which we have worked and we will continue to work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u158	Colleagues, I would remind all the Groups that there is an agreement to limit the speaking time for explanations of vote on the amendments to ten minutes and the time for final explanations of vote to five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u161	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we have tabled both a deleterious amendment and a rewording of the expert teacher. We have worked very hard on it and we have insisted very much that the rule should be changed in substance, also making very precise proposals, and this is borne out by the rewording that we had presented. The figure of the experienced teacher did not convince us, does not convince us and will never convince us. By the way, I would like to make it clear that it would be a matter of telling about 800,000 people who are doing their job honestly, that only 5 percent of them could have had this qualification. The changes that have been made are certainly a bit better, although they are not satisfactory from the point of view of the issues that we have raised. At least we were able to include a reference to collective bargaining, which was one of the fundamental elements for us. So, we can say that we are partially satisfied with these small changes. It is in fact, however, and I say this quite clearly, that this whole part of the incentives and this system must absolutely be changed. It has nothing to do with the European Commission, but with the efficient and effective management of how we really want to make school take a step forward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u164	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, I share the concerns expressed on this imaginative Article 38 by the previous Members. Moreover, we had tabled, like Movimento 5 Stars, an amendment that completely expunged the article, since we did not think that such a fundamental issue for the school and for the meritocracy, which would probably have to be included in the school, could be dealt with in a decree called the aid decree. We cannot understand how such a small percentage of teachers can help the school. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u165	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 38.3 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested to do so, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 38.4 tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators until the words " 2022', on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 38.5. are therefore excluded. As a request has been made, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 38.6 tabled by Senator Granato and other Senators, until the words "are" are deleted, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 38.7. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.8 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.11 tabled by Senators Causin and Pacific. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.19 tabled by Senators Russo and Vaccaro, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.201, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G38.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.0.2, tabled by Senators Causin and Pacific. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 39 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 39.0.1, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 41 of the Decree-Law, which are described. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 41.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.0.2, tabled by Senator Sbrana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 41.0.4 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 42 of the Decree-Law, which are described. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 42.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u166	Mr President, I will be essential. We are about to vote on a rule that will allow the insecure call center of the INPS to finally find a path of conclusion and job stabilization. I would like to thank the staff of the vigilant ministry who has investigated, the ministries who have participated in the cognitive work and the parliamentary groups that have conducted a course of convergence, just as many of these precarious ones have waited.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u169	OIL (M5S). Mr President, on this amendment I wanted to make it clear - and I thank President D'Alfonso for pointing out - that it was born out of a will at the time of President Tridico to internalise the multichannel contact center of the INPS. Moving on, unfortunately, for various vicissitudes the number of people has increased; therefore, in order not to leave anyone out, this change has been made and tried to save it, together with the Government, making it not burdensome to the INPS, so that the institute could welcome all the people who had remained outside (about one hundred), take them inside and grow the contact center properly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u170	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.0.3 tabled by Senator Lonardo, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.0.4 tabled by Senator Causin, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.0.6 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 42.0.10 (correct text), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 42.0.15 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 42.0.16 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.0.18, tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u173	Drago (FdI). Mr President, by mistake I abstained on Amendment 42.0.18, while my vote wanted to be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u174	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to Amendment No 22.0.3 (text 3) which was previously put aside and on which I would ask the President of the Budget Committee to report on the coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u175	Mr President, with reference to the reworded and deposited version, there is coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u176	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 22.0.3 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to Article 44 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be illustrated and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u177	The opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u178	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u181	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to remind you that the Joint Commissions specifically wanted to reject Amendment 35.0.3, the content of which is proposed again on the G44.1 agenda. The agenda under consideration in fact commits the Government to provide, by administrative act, that the general managers charged with implementing the projects of the PNRR whose service contract expires on 31 December 2022, may continue in the activities indicated above for the purposes that also commit the Governments to different political direction until 31 December 2023. We were against voting on an amendment and now we have a politically similar agenda. Let us be careful to vote on it because, in the end, it provides for the same basically. I would remind you that this issue had also been addressed at a Conference of Leaders, and my colleagues said that they should be careful because the future Government will eventually make the extensions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u182	If that is why there is also the anomaly that Senator D'Alfonso gives his opinion to himself, but it is not a rare case. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G44.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G44.2 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day from G44.3 to G44.12 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposed coordination C1 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u185	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, of course, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this measure. More resources must be found immediately to save businesses and families: it is a real emergency that risks causing almost 9 million Italians to plunge into energy poverty. Compared with the requests made in recent weeks for a new budgetary deviation, we have appreciated the government's prudential approach. It is in the eyes of all that at this moment Italy is being held by the markets and a new debt at a time of political and institutional transition would be ate by the probable increase in interest rates. Unfortunately, the issue of extra-profits is not without its criticality: the possible retroactive application to the February-August period raises a question of constitutional legitimacy and possible litigation. On this point I tabled an amendment which unfortunately has not been accepted, but on this issue it must be made clear, also in order to have a certain picture of the revenue that may derive from this item. In any case, we believe that this issue can only be resolved in Europe by setting a ceiling on the price of gas purchases and by imagining a new recovery plan with aid to deal with the emergency and more massive investments for the energy autonomy of the Member States. At the same time, we must continue to work to free small plants from bureaucracy and we must find a way to provide new aid right from the start. If companies are not saved, in a few months the account will be ten times higher for public funds, between social shock absorbers, lack of tax revenue and a devastating employment crisis. For the rest, Mr President, we welcome the mediation we have been able to find on the transfer of the claims of the superbonus 110%. Again, on the one hand, the alarm regarding distortions and frauds against the State has always been acceptable, because an incentive may be 70 or 80 per cent, but it cannot exceed the amount of investment. We have found a fair point of fall: no safe conduct for those who have evidently worked with dole and protection for those businesses and those honest citizens who have acted correctly and who do not deserve to be penalized by the continuous changes in regulations. It is yet another test of pragmatism and common sense that have always guided the Government even in the most complicated choices and of this once again must be acknowledged to President Draghi. I announce the Group's vote in favour for the Autonomies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u188	DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on is in line with the previous aid decree and with the legislative and administrative actions that the government has taken in recent months to deal with the serious economic crisis that we are going through, triggered by the criminal invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. We must therefore be clear, also in the light of the terrible economic crisis that is taking place in Europe, in the world and - I would say - especially in our country. We must be clear because I think it is the dawn of a difficult time. We are faced with a real national emergency and, even if we do not like to say so, because, having to go to ask voters for votes, we do not want to alarm them, we are in the framework of a war economy that spares no one and that, with the rations in view, presents us with an absolutely difficult winter. I am therefore thinking of companies in crisis which, because of the costs of the bills, see production at risk. I think with great anguish of low-income families, who are slipping further and further below the poverty line and no longer know whether to have breakfast, pay bills or maybe send their children to college. These are times, ladies and gentlemen, in which a high sense of responsibility is required to meet the needs of citizens, always maintaining faith in the founding principles of the Republic and its position in the international chessboard; which we did by working a split with the Movimento 5 Stars, which wanted to take us out of our traditional alliances, out of that framework of international collaborations that in Italy is bringing so many resources. I believe that we need responsibility, cohesion and that spirit of national unity which has been missed in this parliamentary term, to which the President of the Republic called us and which - I hope - finds precious seeds in the next one. I am not here to list the many measures contained in the decree aid, in which we offered all the collaboration in the republican spirit that has always distinguished us, despite being aware that the call to rescue that the parties that wanted to demolish national unity, to put the government in crisis and bring the country to adventurous lessons, perhaps would have deserved a different treatment. But we are like this, we are faithful to the Republic and attentive to the needs of citizens. We arrive with a government in charge of current affairs, yet we have managed to do important things with this last decree. We are in the middle of an electoral campaign that has assumed disintegrating, irresponsible and propagandistic tones precisely at the moment when responsibility, cohesion and seriousness were required; commitment - alas - but not respected by those who wanted to lead the country to adventure - as I said - to win votes and to bring - who knows - the greatest number of parliamentarians to the Chambers that will come. Let me say, in conclusion, that what happened with the Draghi Government, with the President of the Republic who was forced to point out a President of the Council to make a government, with the displacement of the majority and the fall of the Executive, has brought us within a framework of system crisis that I hope the next Parliament will be able to collect. From this point of view - let me say this, Mr President - there remains one issue, that of the appropriate reforms that the political system needs: electoral laws, but I would also say institutional reforms, which must be put in place and thought out in the next parliamentary term, perhaps with a constituent Assembly. I hope, dear President, that the left and the progressive front, finding the courage that belongs to them, will not give the theme of institutional reforms to an adventurist right, to make reforms that need first and foremost to clean up the system from... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u189	Thank you, Senator Di Nicola. It was very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u192	DESSI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, I begin by thanking you, the whole Presidency and the Offices. I thank all those who have allowed us to carry out five years' term of office and who now allow us to conclude our experience. I thank them, however, dutylessly remembering a sentence - I will be grateful to our dean, Senator Elio Lannotti - of Ferdinand Impostimato: democracy and government of the majority in respect of the rights of the opposition and not tyranny of the majority in contempt of the opposition. Unfortunately, President, this sentence has been fully fulfilled in this end of the legislature: dozens of decrees, whether urgent or not, put to the attention of tacit Chambers, placed in the presence of a party now unique that goes from Brothers of Italy, which you worthyly represent, up to the extreme left of the Democratic Party, which I define as extreme left only for the positioning in this Chamber, but which is in fact the worst right-wing conservative party in the current political landscape. We, President, have tried to do what every citizen, every person who is attentive to constitutional values (for this reason we have given ourselves the name of "United for the Constitution") should have done in this House: defend our articles, repudiate war and never send weapons to territories where there is war; defend, with the important role to which we are called, the interests of the Italian people, the interests of families, small and medium-sized enterprises and of our community. So, in any way, never, never, ever from this House, sanctions should have been granted to resource-producing countries that become necessary for us and whose lack seriously endangers our socio-economic fabric. You've seen everything, ma'am. We have seen a President of the Council who has made pig meat with the constituent values of our country. [[Applause]] , focusing on itself all the powers and doing everything to secure the US system and the European system of banks and finances, but putting Italy, its people and its families in serious crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u194	DESSI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). No, ma'am, let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finally, perhaps with a little more parliamentary words. DESSI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Having said that, Mr President, I hope that - as we did in this parliamentary term, with what little these thirteen heroes could do, a handful of heroes who fought to the end [[Applause]] to counter a system that now has no interest in guaranteeing constitutional principles - the Italians continue our work and in the next elections always vote an anti-system party, alternative to the system, alternative to all of you who have not properly represented these institutions and the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u197	Evangelist (IV-PSI). Mr President, the energy crisis and the water emergency have brought out a number of issues and structural problems. So, in order to cope with the alarm launched by families, businesses and farmers, the Government has foreseen and issued Decree-Law No 115 of 2022, which today we are preparing to convert and which provides for the allocation of public resources to contain the expensive bills, to promote reforms consistent with the objectives of social and industrial policy and thus to allow greater support to families and the Italian production system. This is a package of measures for which EUR 15 billion has been allocated, plus an additional EUR 2 billion for long-term interventions. As a Parliament and as a parliamentary group, we have been able to add some 50 amendments, and for this I thank the Presidents of the Budget and Finance and Treasury Commissions and all my colleagues. It was a very heavy job, which engaged us and involved us in long and exhausting political meetings, because - as we know - in the middle of the electoral campaign and without a majority, an agreement had to be reached on all the amendments, involving all the political groups or at least those of greater numerical weight. And so it was. It also takes intellectual honesty to say that what was happening in these meetings should have remained within the meetings, such as the fact that, if a unanimous and clear agreement had not been reached, the basic decree-law should have been voted in the Chamber. On the other hand, the agreement has been reached and has been reached on important regulations, such as those relating to school and superbonus. It is therefore an agreement that has concerned and involved all the parliamentary groups. I would like to mention some of the most important measures, such as, specifically, those against the increase in bills and fuels. The benefits of electricity tariffs already recognised for economically disadvantaged domestic customers and domestic customers in serious health conditions are strengthened. To the companies with high electricity consumption the Government recognizes an extraordinary contribution, to partial compensation of the greater burdens incurred, in the form of tax credit. For the fourth quarter of 2022, general system charges in the electricity sector will be zero, VAT and general charges in the gas sector will be reduced and excise duties on fuels will be reduced by one month until 20 September 2022. We must also remember the urgent measures relating to the emergency of water, in particular the compensation to farmers damaged by drought. A comprehensive reform is expected to strengthen governance of the management of the integrated water service. The decree-law also provides for the increase of the extraordinary contribution in favour of Municipalities, Metropolitan Cities and Provinces, in order to cope with the dear bills. There is a double intervention on pensions, with revaluation in the last quarter 2022 of all pension allowances, equal to 1.9 percent, and 2 percentage points for allowances up to 34.000, from 1 October 2022, based on inflation, thus adjusting to the cost of living. We also remember the 200 euro bonus for all employees and the psychological bonus that has been integrated. With regard to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we have adopted a number of amendments, of course with all our colleagues in the Commission, as I said before... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We recall the simplified administrative regime for the installation of photovoltaic systems for thermal tourist facilities, also in historic centers and subject to landscape constraints. We have corrected and therefore also contributed to the superbonus rule, which allowed us to reuse the disposals, that is the credits that were now in the drawer, giving breath to the companies, that instead had been blocked because of the scams. Finally, I would like to mention, on my behalf, the amendment that, for the years 2023, 2024 and 2025, provided that the unused amounts of the ordinary Fund for the financing of the budgets of local authorities, within the limit of EUR 30 million per year, would be allocated to all local authorities in financial distress. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u200	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I begin by thanking my colleagues and the structures of the Senate for the cooperation of these years. synthetically I want to emphasize that, also in the decree-law in question, we have seen the characteristic of the Brothers of Italy Group. For four and a half years - including this phase - we have been a constructive, serious opposition, which has tried never to obstruct, but to improve as much as possible the legislative production of this House, both in this House and in the Commissions. Of course, we would have expected even more from this decree-law. By the government that has been called the best - and I think this adjective will probably be used very rarely - we would have expected some strategic vision. We would have expected, perhaps, Mr President, that, alongside the due and due bonuses and aid to businesses and citizens, obviously not enough - but we are waiting to see the next measure too - there would be some hints of energy policy. We would have expected answers in relation to national gas fields. For months, Brothers of Italy has been at the ribs of the Ministry and the Government asking for it to start again with the extraction of national gas: nothing even in this decree-law. The same can be said about thermo-towers. There is no mention of any prospect, even of clean nuclear power. Basically, we see the immediate content, but nothing strategic, of that strategy that this country needs so much. Surely, if the Italians give us the chance, we will be able to demonstrate, in the first days of the next legislature, that we will carry out paths of strategy and of energy and industrial policy for the growth of the country. As far as the subject of the superbonus is concerned, Brothers of Italy expressed appreciation - as I said in my previous speech - after pressing for almost a year the majority in parliamentary committees and classrooms, saying that it did not make sense to prevent the free movement of tax credits and limit the tax currency, which is still one of the strategies to avoid the country's indebtedness and for the future. Well, we have said this and repeated it for months and finally, in this decree-law that was born in the electoral campaign, the entire Parliament in fact complied with the requests of Brothers of Italy. Maybe if they listened to us a little earlier, if maybe those who supported the government of the best had listened to us, today we would have fewer companies in crisis and fewer construction sites blocked. In the light of all this, I would have appreciated from the Government that, in the face of these serious mistakes, it had granted at least an extension - today to 30 September - for the achievement of the 30% of the work in single-family homes. It was because of that blockage to the credits that crippled the system. The government had to extend it, and despite our pressure, it didn't grant it. Brothers of Italy - I repeat - has been constructive, it has brought its own contribution, but for the reasons mentioned above can only abstain in the face of the decree-law in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u201	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u203	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, the aid-a-law that we are about to convert into law has provided for extraordinary interventions against carovita and energy. From August last there are more funds to calm the bills; to extend the discount gasoline; to extend the cut of the tax wedge from July to December; to extend the bonus 200 euros; to strengthen the social bonus electricity and gas for the fourth quarter 2022; to anticipate the revaluation of pensions and there are many other specific measures. A total of 15 billion has been allocated to the package of measures, plus 2 billion for long-term interventions. The Senate of the Republic, however, despite the extraordinary political condition and the peculiarity of the moment that we are living, in these weeks has been able to put aside the potential criticalities and frictions related to the electoral campaign and focus on the search for additional solutions to those developed by the Government Draghi, in some cases thanks to the political dialectic and the power of direction of Parliament, going to change positions assumed by the Executive that seemed to be scaling. We were thus able to find media solutions that were high and useful to the needs of the country. For the release of the sale of the superbonus credits, we have identified suitable solutions for families and businesses without sacrificing the need not to leave unpunished those who have cheated the State, with a position therefore certainly responsible. Let me say a word about the game of the three cards, almost as a proven magician, that has been put in place this last week by the former President of the Council Giuseppe Conte and also by some colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, trying to find a solution that could represent a sort of tombalacious pardon for all issues both for those who had operated correctly, and for those who had operated scams. [[Applause]] The amendment that had been proposed completely excluded joint responsibility without distinguishing between those who had acted correctly and those who had conned the State. This week, however, we have not moved from the political position of mediation reached a week ago, namely that of distinguishing between those who had acted correctly and those who had not done so. And, after a week, even the Movimento 5 Stars had to recognize that there was no chance of moving on differently, and so the solution was found on this point. [[Applause]] Today attacking the PD and its secretary Enrico Letta is truly disqualifying and inappropriate, because your position on this subject has changed not Parliament's position, but your position on it. [[Applause]] This decree, with the amendments approved, also found a solution to the controversial question of the expert teacher, certainly avoiding any risk of losing the third tranche of the PNRR, but at the same time without sacrificing the consolidated Italian legislation, which puts in charge of the national collective agreements of work the burden of defining career paths. On this subject it would have been much better to see the ministries more attentive and open to confrontation, because the mediation found in the last - in fact is what the PD was proposing for a month, but finding doors blocked in the high bureaucracy of the state - could have done even more and better if we had the time and the necessary, adequate collaboration. We have found resources for the development of chip production in our country, a very delicate and fundamental theme for economic and digital development in this certainly complicated geopolitical framework; there are also proposals on agile work measures for fragile workers; a response to thalidomide patients, for entertainment workers; a working perspective for state officials engaged in the implementation of the PNRR and yet other important measures such as the underground regulatory plan. I believe that the Democratic Party with its senators - in particular I want to thank President D'Alfonso, Senators Misiani, Missa, Nannicini, Rojc, Parrini, Mirabelli, Ferrari and Malpezzi - has made a positive contribution to improving this decree. For all these reasons, the PD will vote in favour. Finally, Mr President, I should like to thank you for taking my leave. I have dealt with the commitment of these years in Parliament with discipline and honour, representing the nation and making my political contribution. I will not be present in the next Parliament, but I want to wish good work to those who will be there and to invite from the outset to take care and protect the valorisation of the legislative power, which is an indispensable necessity for the country and for anyone who represents it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u204	Thank you and the best wish I can give you is to have, after those of parliamentary life, successes in non-parliamentary life.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u206	Senator De Petris, you were the most present in the intervention phase and we recognize your absolute record. You have the right to do so. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, this will be my last explanation of vote and, therefore, you will no longer be displeased to listen to me. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank you. I spent long years here in the Senate, during which I learned a lot and I really want to thank all the officials - as well as all the staff of the Senate - for me were teachers and guides. I also thank all my colleagues with whom I have shared many of these years. The decree-law that we are about to convert today seeks, as far as possible - of course they are all quite partial interventions - to intervene on a dramatic crisis, which is energy and therefore social, because of the combination of inflation and energy crisis. These are measures that serve to cushion a situation and not to solve it, so the social bonus is fine, the stop to changes to the energy contracts, the extension of the cuts to the bills, the energy bonus to the enterprises, the excise cut, the 40 million for the local public transport that obviously has had an increase of costs. There are a number of absolutely fundamental interventions: I also think about the drought bonus and the state of emergency for water risk. These are, of course, decrees of a government that is in office only for current affairs. We have done our duty in Parliament and I also thank you for the work done over the last few days, which has not been simple and complicated, but has led to the improvement of the decree-law in question and - even though we have had to suffer until the last day - to find a solution, an indication as regards the superbonus. I want to say clearly here that there has been an hostility on a matter that could have been resolved a long time ago, as undersecretary Freni knows perfectly well. I repeat: on this issue hostilities have never been hidden. A few months ago, things would have been different if they had dealt with each other. I say this at least by thinking of the anguish that we have produced in many companies that risked failure and by putting thousands and thousands of workers and their families on the road. Is it a solution that solves everything? No, but it certainly gives you some certainty right now. The other question is that of the school. We insisted on finding a better solution until the last minute. I have to say that in the end we have made changes which do not solve all the problems, but which are a starting point for eliminating standards which, in our opinion, only harm school and teachers. Having said that, we announce our vote in favour and I renew my greeting. I'll see you outside the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u207	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u208	Thank you, Senator De Petris. If you will allow me, I would like to say that we will miss you, the whole House will miss you.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u209	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u212	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, colleagues, doing quickly and well is the objective of Forza Italia to help the country. Parliament's work does not stop. The country, citizens, businesses, families, craftsmen, farmers, professionals in every sector, school, university and health care need immediate support and structural vision measures in the medium and long term. Today we think about the immediate support. We approve the second decree-law that follows the first emergency measure already approved, both with the aim of intervening to counter the expensive energy, the expensive fuel and the water emergency caused by the summer drought, but also to support the local authorities in favour of social policies, in order to protect the purchasing power and relaunch investments. The causes of the exponential increases are known, the effects are devastating, but we are ready to face them with the hope that the next will be a government that looks all in the same direction and will face with commitment, determination and competent and concrete vision all open issues. Now the necessary counter-measures must be put in place in the immediate, short, medium and long term. The sum of the aid provided by this and by the previous decrees exceeds EUR 34 billion, to which should be joined another 13.6 announced by the Government; over 47 billion injected into the real economy, more than a whole budget maneuver. More will probably be needed, since the higher energy charges are around 3 points of GDP. Soon after, we will vote on this change in the budget to allow the new government to intervene again. We know the issues: the fight against expensive energy and fuels; support for problems arising after the long water crisis and for local authorities; support for social policies and to protect the purchasing power of families; measures to revive investment. We were able to close this decree on time, despite a difficult construction due to the usual dissonant positions of some Groups. [[Applause]] However, this is proof that without divisive themes to slow down, without the fear of mistrust and with a true sense of responsibility, one can intervene with the necessary care and that is why I reiterate the need for a Government that looks at everything in the same direction. The country needs today more than ever a political government, supported by a parliament in which the majority is homogeneous; a government with the soul and clear ideas to give precise guidelines is fundamental, because photography is merciless. I focus quickly on the issue that slowed down the approval process of the measure, the bonus 110, the superbonus that was the main object of the fight. Thanks to the contribution of Forza Italia and the necessary mediation is provided the responsibility of the ceasefires for malice and serious guilt and, therefore, stop the scams that had slowed the superbonus. And now we should unlock the tax credits that were still, allowing the many companies that were left without liquidity to restart. This is important and, like Forza Italia, we proudly claim it. [[Applause.]] In short, a solution path has been found to the previous approach. Thanks to our amendment, the government in its... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] In conclusion Forza Italia had tabled very concrete and useful amendments, which today we have transformed into agendas: the extension of the installment of bills for companies based in Italy, the doubling of tax credits rather than the simplification on renewables. I'm really gonna finish. Forza Italia, a movement that has a profound culture of government, will vote in favour of this measure that we believe is due; a measure whose rules must be extended and implemented. We will make every effort to ensure that, thanks to the advent of the new Parliament and the new Government, the support must last for a short time. He'll leave again. Come on, Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u215	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group. We have seen that the diligent Member of Parliament makes the list in these circumstances: not the electoral list that occupied us so much last month, but he does a bit of the shopping list and a little of the list of regrets. Everyone has done theirs and I will only add some political considerations. I am in an uncomfortable situation for once, because those who spoke before me have basically already made the considerations I wanted to make and I repeat. The first consideration is as follows: we come from a parliamentary term which is seeing an early end, during which several times, even at the events that then led to its end, the issue emerged in the political debate that could not go to the vote because one could not interrupt an emotion or at least one could not interrupt the parliamentary work. The fact that we are here, more or less reluctant, but that we have worked, more or less efficiently, shows what Mr Gallone said before: the exercise of democracy takes place in the vote and in the electoral campaign; that election campaign, which some competent people wanted to suspend in the name of the emergency, is in fact not at all incompatible with the orderly functioning of the institutions. I would like to stress this so that we remember it where ever - I hope not before five years - we find ourselves in such a gruesome need to work in loose rooms. I would also like to remind you here - in particular to some of our voters who have legitimately contested some of the choices we made during this parliamentary term - that the presence of the Government is important in resolving the problems such as, for example, the turmoil created around the theme of the superbonus. Having a competent presence, such as that of the Undersecretary Freni, which we have the honour to have expressed in this government, in Parliament is unfortunately crucial. It has always been, and has been, all the more so in this parliamentary term, during which we have seen that the legislative initiative is essentially in the hands of the Government. That of the superbonus was not an easy theme to dissolve and still remains a theme on which many knots should be loosened. The point is that the problem of superbonus is not its cost, as someone claims. It would be hypocritical to think that. If we like the environment, we have to spend on the environment. Neither are scams, which are obviously a problem, but could be dealt with with by appropriate controls. The problem is the confrontation between two losing ideologies, which see us both opposed: on the one hand, the ideology of bonuses, that is, free meals; on the other hand, the ideology of commodity money. They're two ideologies that are both failing. In five minutes - lucky for you - I cannot explain why, but what I can say is that, when the elections have returned us a more ideologically compact and cohesive government, we will remedy the damage these ideologies have created. Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group - the Sardinian Action Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u216	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u218	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, with the vote on this decree-law aid- bis we solve a huge problem, that of the joint responsibility for the transfer of tax credits of building bonuses, and therefore not only of the super bonus, but also of all other building bonuses. It was a real economic and social bomb, which we managed to unlock. Today we do it together, voting in the same way, but in reality this result has been achieved only and exclusively thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I want to explain it in detail, since those who preceded me told a story never happened or maybe happened in his dreams the past nights. I'll take a step back. Last week, with respect to the amendments of the Movimento 5 Stars, who wanted to unblock the responsibility for solidarity, the amendments of the Government that not only did not solve the problem, but perhaps aggravated it. In that situation of impasse, we have almost been asked to withdraw the amendments. Well, all the political forces, all except the 5 Star Movement, had given their assent to the withdrawal. But we have gone backwards and said that we would not withdraw anything; but we would have brought our amendments to the House and that, if they had the courage to vote otherwise, they would have had to do so before the Italian citizens. [[Applause]] You have to take responsibility for telling companies, about 40,000 companies, that they will have to fail. We asked them to take responsibility for voting against and to send hundreds of thousands of workers home. Magically, after our position, we decided to take a week of reflection. However, in this week of reflection, all the parties, I must say in a special way, the Democratic Party, have turned on us and have pointed out us as responsible for blocking aid. [[Applause]] , demonstrating, among other things, a constitutional ignorance that is truly surprising, because the decrees law - as we should all know - come into force immediately, starting from the day of their publication in the Official Journal. We are doing the conversion into law: you should know that, dear colleagues in the Democratic Party. Well, the Democratic Party, starting with its secretary, took this position and pointed us out as irresponsible. The result is this: we had challenged the parties, we had invited them to take their responsibilities and magically the solution came out: a solution that we have been calling for months, but this Government has been deaf to our demands. This Government, at the mouth of President Draghi and Minister Franco, has always been opposed both to the superbonus and, above all, to the mechanism of the tax circulation of credits, to the fiscal currency. That's what I'm firmly opposed to. I shall conclude, Mr President. We are, of course, voting in favour of the measure, because even if it is not a decree aid from our point of view, it is a decree aid, better than nothing. [[Applause]] However, we hope that in the coming months, it will be possible thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars and this Parliamentary Group, to give a help to this country that is in great difficulty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u219	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 115 of 9 August 2022 on urgent measures in the field of energy, water emergency, social and industrial policies." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u220	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] At the request of some of my colleagues, particularly Senators Lannutti, Castaldi and Calderoli, I believe that the whole House is pleased to recall a figure who has accompanied our days for many years, even those who before me were senators when I was in the Chamber of Deputies, and who left us a few days ago. Which one of you has no memory of Salvatore Biamonte's presence at the buvette? Who of you doesn't always remember him ready to help each of us in the moments when we went to rest or chat sometimes at the buvette? A figure who continued to be present in this palace, specifically at the buvette, even when he was retired, even when he no longer received - as I know - a salary, but only the pension, because for him the Senate was his home, his life. He leaves a family with two children: his son, who works in the Senate, to whom we offer our condolences, and his daughter, a doctor at the Umberto I Hospital in Rome, who will ideally continue his closeness to the institutions, which is humble, but which sometimes teaches us more than many words. Thank you, Salvatore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u221	The next item is the debate on document LVII- bis, No 6. The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u222	Mr President, I am not going to bore my fellow Members, as there is a well-written report with the help of the Offices. I just want to remind you that the Government intends to prepare a new decree-law of about 13 billion euros always in aid to families and businesses. To this end it will use the approximately 6.2 billion that have become available from the higher tax revenues, especially with regard to VAT, the Irpef and the Ires, and others about 7 billion from a rationalization of the expenses, as well as from the famous revenues deriving from the greater burdens on those who trade energy. Thanks to these resources you will be able to approve this decree-law, without changing the level of indebtedness. This is the most important thing: no new debt will be created. I would like to thank the Parliamentary Budget Office, which has supported us in supporting the Government's choices thanks to the report we have received these days. That is all I would like to add, and I would like to thank all my colleagues once again for the work they have done together. It was really an honor for me to work with you and I hope everything went well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u223	I recall that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of Law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the use of debt is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the final explanations of vote on the motions for resolutions will be taken directly. I would like to inform you that a motion for a resolution has been tabled by Senators Manca, Ferrero, Dell'Olio, Modena, Errani, Conzatti, Presutto, Steger and Calandrini, whose text is being distributed. I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u224	Mr President, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u225	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u226	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u228	LANNUTTI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, one of the many headlines in a newspaper: Dear energy, Pirinoli paper mill launches fund integration: a year ago we paid 400,000 euros per bill, now 5 million, with a more than tenfold increase, i.e. more than 12 times. Dozens of thousands of companies, due to the high price increases on electricity and gas bills, have already closed or will be forced to close while the Draghi Government, the worst disaster for the rights and interests of the Italian people since 1992, when as Director General of the Treasury inaugurated on Britannia the state sales sold for privatizations, has resorted to damaged derivatives, real clandestine bets heartbroken with scalp contracts not to ensure the issue of the public debt, whose sole interests cost the Erario 40 billion euros, unlike other layers that have earned us, but to guarantee his golden career, thus poisoning the state budget, whose moral gambling model then begat the crack of the Lehman Brothers in 2008 and the failures in chain of flourishing healthy companies brought to discord. On 21 June in this House Draghi said that the sanctions were working, that time was coming and that those measures would be increasingly effective. Instead, it is not so, as told by Bloomberg and relaunched by the agency AGI on September 2 with the title "Few consequences for Russia by the stop" which blatantly denies the effectiveness of sanctions. I shall end my speech, Mr President, because I do not want to use all five minutes at my disposal, but it has been calculated that households will pay on average EUR 2.975 on an annual basis for the deadly impact on tens of thousands of businesses. In essence, according to the analysis published in Bloomberg, Russia can afford to close the gas tap to Europe for a year without consequences for its public budget. The obsessive propaganda of the Italian media, among the top places for corruption and among the last ones for freedom of information (two sides of the same coin), on the impact of sanctions on the Russians, ignoring the dramatic consequences on the Italian people, who will face a harsh winter to the frost. We must go to the roots of the problem, in addition to the palliatives of the decree-laws and the budgetary deviation, with a robust self-criticism on the increase of military spending by 16 billion and the sending of weapons. What must be done, at the root of the problem, is to send fewer weapons and resort more to diplomacy, to pursue a single path, that of peace, as Pope Francis also says. I would like to thank my colleagues, because this will really be my last speech. It takes a budgetary deviation, because in five or six months it will be too late. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u229	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u231	MANCA (PD). Mr President, the report presented to Parliament starts from the need to urgently put in place measures that are essential for families and businesses, to support the growth of our country, to combat forms of inequality and loneliness that lurk in too high inflation, which gradually becomes unsustainable for wages and pensions, with the consequent loss of their purchasing power, thus in a dangerous twist to the 2021 growth trend of 6,6%. The report on the agenda, together with the resolution tabled, which, of course, the Democratic Party supports and will vote, has an important objective: it shows the face of responsibility, a very important principle to which we must strive. We are in the presence of a resigning Government and loose Chambers, however we are in the presence of an important measure that frees resources without producing new debt, because talking about budgetary deviations at this stage means being irresponsible in the management of public accounts. Everyone knows that at the economic and social level, with inflation above 10% and with a very complex programmatic path, it is not compatible with the credibility of our public finance balances being maintained, asking for additional measures compared to the need that we have to stand in the parameters without a deviation from the medium-term objective. This means that responsibility and reliability are pre-political principles. It is essential to maintain responsibility and reliability in the management of public accounts because this serves Italy to ensure a future, hope and economic growth. Italy needs to maintain in the European dimension elements of reliability, seriousness and compatibility, because it is in Europe that we have to make decisive choices, starting with the gas roof. It is clear, in fact, that only through immediate and rapid European measures will we be able to tackle in a structural way a problem that risks opening up serious social conflicts in our country that must be resolved. This is therefore an important measure: 6.2 billion euros on net debt, over 13 billion on the balances of needs to be financed will allow the Government to submit a decree that will immediately respond to the needs of the families and of course to the needs of the enterprises. It is therefore natural for us to respond to this responsibility: it means that the Government had placed economic policies on the right track because, as President Pesco said, we are in the presence of more revenue, which allows us to use resources without producing new debt on the younger generations. It is too easy to imagine governing a country by promoting a debt on the younger generations. This means that the economic policy choices we made required responsibility, called for a Parliament to renew the confidence of the Government in order to continue to work in the direction of reliability, re-launching investments and keeping public accounts. It is therefore an urgent and important first intervention with which today Parliament, also thanks to the unanimous sharing of all political forces, allows the Government to work on the decree of urgency at the service of companies, families, territorial authorities, growth and social cohesion of our country. Our vote will therefore be a favorable one to support this difficult step and to give a first response to our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u234	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia believes that the use of the increased resources identified for policy objectives is right. We believe that this is appropriate and necessary in view of the emergency, which is known to us all, concerning price increases, particularly for energy and gas. It is good to clarify that we are not faced with a sort of deviation manoeuvre, just to understand ourselves; it is a different operation, which takes into account an improvement in the general framework of public finance in the first eight months of the year, an improvement that has generated more tax revenue and consequently less debt. Thanks to this we can identify the resources to intervene with reference to the specific emergencies of the energy and the prices of the gas. That is why we are in favour of this measure, which does not touch the overall frameworks that have been defined and which are relevant to the forecasts identified for public finance. Above all, as I said, this is a measure which is based on a clear improvement - I want to stress this once again - of the debt of our public finances. So, to understand it, it is not creating new debt; it is an operation that we are in a position to do precisely because we have a positive framework of public finance from which we can draw resources for families and businesses. We know the figures: we are talking about 0.3% compared to the forecasts. It is, of course, a necessary measure for the general framework, which is therefore justified by the exceptional nature of the situation, which we will vote with conviction. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the Offices and all of you for this piece of road we have made together and above all for sharing with you the honour of having served the country in this legislature. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u235	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u237	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this choice, which is a more than indispensable choice. To be honest, I would just like to make two very brief political considerations: we do it without debt (this is a positive fact), but we also have to realize (maybe a few months ago it was not so clear) that we are in a very serious social crisis. We have inflation on the one hand and energy costs on the other: thousands of companies are at risk of closing down, while millions of households are in a situation of difficulty that cannot pay the bill and at the same time the rent or the expense. There is an objective delay in the awareness of this situation and we know that even these 13 billion will not be enough to give a strategic response. I have heard before some colleagues, during the explanations of vote on the decree-law aid- bis, proclaim and announce that the new political government will do and resolve. I just want to make two points. The first is that we must pay the greatest attention to these 13 billion, in order to avoid - as happened with other measures on the Covid - that the resources are distributed indistinguishably, so much so that - as the parliamentary budgetary office has told us - 60% of the resources allocated to those measures have gone to those who did not need them. The government's commitment cannot be bureaucratic: it must be chosen, starting first of all from those businesses and those families that really cannot do business or arrive at the end of the month. Then it will have to be decided at some point. Very well the European gas ceiling, very well this commitment of the Government and President Draghi, but, if we continue not to achieve this result, we will have to decide to do something, because we will not be able to chase with public spending the situation of the bills. I am talking about the extra profit and the adoption of fundamental measures, such as arriving for a period at an administered price, at least on gas and light, because otherwise this pursuit will not come to the result. Let me add another point. Looks like we forgot about the Covid emergency. Look, if the next government doesn't quickly fund the health fund, at least eight regions will default. [[Applause]] I do not know how to explain it: by default! Mr President, all the words about the heroes of doctors and nurses of the National Health Service have been forgotten. Look, this is going to be a big problem, which needs to be addressed. I repeat our vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u238	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u240	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to a few speeches before me, in which, for example, my colleague in the PD said that we must be within the limits and parameters, that we must be responsible and reliable and that we must wait for Europe: talking about budgetary deviations and money to be given to Italians and businesses, in order to pay the bills of light and gas, would even be irresponsible. Senator, have you seen a light bill this time of year? [[Applause]] Have you seen a gas bill from the bar below your house, from the nursing home, from the restaurant, from the hotel, from the glass factory, from the stationery or from the carpentry shop? There are two ways of understanding politics. There is to be in the parameters and limits, with a nice tie knot, and to go to Brussels saying that he did his homework and that he had lost the job to 2 million workers and workers, but that he was polite and responsible. For me to make politics is to save the work of Italians and Italians. [[Applause]] Oh, my God! The League has been demanding 30 billion euros for months. I read the CGIA of Mestre, which is not the study office of the League, according to which the higher costs for energy, this year, for families and businesses, will be 82 billion euros. While on the banks of the PD they squeal, in many Italian factories the workers have nothing to laugh about: I assure you! They have a lot of other problems right now. [[Applause]] I quote: It is clear that if we want to secure the country by the end of the year we will have to intervene with at least 30 billion euros of deviation. I would also like to mention Confcommercio: "We have already suspended 40% of the activities" denounce the companies that recycle plastics. Here we are crazy that, because of the green ideology, which has little to do with environmental protection, we have brought on our knees a production system and we have led to the increase of electricity and gas bills and the world's greenest companies, because of these crazy European choices, are stopping being green. Therefore, either we intervene now to block the increases of light and gas, or green will remain the pockets of Italians. Let's turn to Boccia, former president Confindustria, current president of the University Luiss (thus dangerous subversive, Legist and Putinian), who says that to save the country does not need 30 billion euros, but it takes 60, otherwise the Italian economy will be on its knees. Coldiretti complains that 70,000 farms are likely to stop. I could go on: I see a Senate Assembly a little vacationary, a little redemptive and a little absent. [[Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u241	Senator Salvini, please stick to the theme. It seems to me that this House is doing its job to the full.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u242	[[Comments.]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). May I? I'm in no hurry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd like everyone to play their part. Please, Senator Salvini. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I don't know if you live in the real country, which is in danger of closing... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u243	Senator, please speak to the Presidency, as the Rules of Procedure require, not to colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u244	Colleagues, it's okay. We're not at the stadium. You're welcome, Senator. Please do not stimulate comments, to use euphemism. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). May I conclude, please by the noisy senators on the left? If I can finish, I would simply like to bring the voices of farmers, bartenders, entrepreneurs, carpenters, pensioners. [[Comments]] Don't complain if they don't vote for you next week! [[Applause.]] Don't complain if they vote for the center-right. And they wonder why they vote for the center-right! [[Comments.]] (17.50) (Salvini followed). Friends of the PD and the 5 Stars, the problem is not Salvini. The problem is one million workers and workers who, if you lose more weeks, will no longer have the salary to take home at the end of the month. [[Applause]] That's the problem right now. And it seems to me that part of the politics lives on Mars, because maybe someone's bill is going to pay her maid, so the shopping goes to someone else. We are happy, I say it to the Government: better 13 billion than zero, but if we think that these billions secure the Italian industrial system we have failed to understand, if France blocks the increases in the bills and so Germany, if Spain and Great Britain block the increases in the bills putting money to debt and we do not. I am interested in bringing the workers' and workers' voices to this House as a League, and I say to you: "Shame yourselves!". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u247	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - those who usually come - I only want to address those who actually work. [[Applause]] , not to those who show up on cameras and then go away -, today we are called to approve the financing of a new tranche of aid for families and companies suffering from inflation due to the increase in energy costs, we know, and raw material prices. It is the third decree-law aid, using this time the greater fiscal space that the Government finds itself thanks to the evolution of the revenues. We do not say no to help, nor can we say no to what is, however, a fake deviation. Yes, unfortunately, it is a fake deviation, it is not a deviation, and once again we scrape the bottom of the barrel, of the greater fiscal space available to put on the field not aid, but, as my colleague Pellegrini said, only aid. So we have to define them in relation to the enormity of the problems that we have to solve at this negative economic stage. We of the Movimento 5 Stars, who certainly did not have the glass ball, but simply verified the daily difficulties of the socio-economic fabric and read all the most accredited forecasts, from December 2021 we asked for a budgetary deviation: a true deviation, and not fake like this. We've been asking for more than eight months. It would have been and still would have been useful, even if late; it would be a more effective tool to quickly find massive resources to be allocated to households and businesses, to support high multiplier investments. Over the months, then, several political forces have complied with this request, even the only party of alleged opposition, always well aligned with Prime Minister Draghi in supporting a dry no to the budgetary deviation, which in recent hours realizes that, instead, something more should be done. Good, bad, because we would have liked this awareness from other political forces to have matured much earlier. Unfortunately, the same canovaccio followed for the superbonus, whose changes we called for, also these, for months, but today, only thanks to our tenacity, within the decree aid bis we achieved an important result. Only the strong position of the Movement to protect tens of thousands of construction companies finally allowed us to take a big step towards the unblocking of the movement of tax credits related to the superbonus and other building bonuses. A simple truth has emerged: in the Commission only we in the Movimento strongly opposed the request of the Ministry of the Economy to withdraw all the amendments to the aid-a decree, when all the other political forces had already quietly sat down without debate. It is only because of our refusal that we now have the rewording of our amendment that finally removes the excess of solidarity responsibility that had blocked the transfer of tax credits. Everyone knows who fought for this result: the Movimento 5 Stars, while in here it is full of political forces desperately trying to claim the merit of this result by doing only electoral falsehoods. But this is not simply our victory, it is a victory of thousands of workers and families brought to the brink of the abyss by this Ministry of Economics and I say it proudly. On the use of the greater fiscal space, I conclude by saying that we must put ourselves in the head that not investing today involves costs destined to multiply in the future. That is why we must not now fear an extra-account deficit, if anything we must fear environmental deficits, energy security and independence, the deficits of our health infrastructures, those of social protection and labour. These are the deficits and debts we must be afraid of. [[Applause]] In conclusion, we certainly do not oppose the use of greater fiscal space to go to finance another aid decree, but it is the umpteenth non-courageous buffer measure, not decisive of this Government which lacks the vision of the whole, a Government that too long has remained inert in the face of the urgency of the country. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u248	Before we proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, Senators, because this is the last sitting of my Presidency, I would like to thank you all, because even in an undoubtedly difficult legislature, I have always felt the support of all of you and I thank you very much for that. [[Applause]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. I would remind you that this resolution requires an absolute majority of the members of this House. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Missa, Ferrero, Dell'Olio, Modena, Errani, Conzatti, Presutto, Steger and Calandrini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u251	[[Brusio.]] Speak, Senator, your voice will certainly be able to overcome the noise in this House. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to join with all of you for your thanks, but at the same time I would like to stress at least two critical points that could easily be put on the agenda at the beginning of the new parliamentary term. One of these is the huge number of unanswered questions in this parliamentary term. The problem is not so much that of the Member asking a question to the Government and not receiving an answer; the problem is the relationship that the Member has with the community, with the territory and with their specific problems, to which today at the end of the legislature we are not able to answer. People ask us what happens to a particular question, an act which represented a kind of hope for them, but which, on the other hand, has remained completely unanswered. This is perhaps a small thing: it would be enough to amend the Rules of Procedure, because it is not enough one hour a week, even with the television set, with the media importance that it can have. It is rather necessary to have a re-evaluation of the parliamentarians' relationship with their territories in order to be points of mediation and integration between the parliamentarians and the Government. This is a small thing, which I don't think requires much complexity. The second point that I would like to address, and which in the same way does not seem difficult to me, is the ability to assess the percentage of the draft laws presented by Members of Parliament in relation to the decree-laws. There must be a balance. We must also be able to find Parliament's presence and value in this respect in the face of very simple indicators, setting a percentage and a proportion. If we do not re-launch the new Parliament and the new legislature in order to exploit, even in small matters, the relationship of Members with their respective territories, then it seems to me that any kind of reform will not have all the positive impact it could have to restore confidence between the citizens and Parliament, and this can only result in yet another increase in absenteeism. Thank you, Mr President, and I thank all my colleagues. It is evident that the confusion is that of the last day of school.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u254	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, we will leave Parliament now, but unfortunately the natural risks will not leave us. Scientists have a moral obligation to warn humanity of any catastrophic threat and to tell things as they are. On the basis of this and the research conducted, we clearly and unequivocally declare that planet Earth is facing a climate emergency: 11,000 scientists from 153 nations said it in November 2019. In Italy the petition "A vote for the climate" of Italian societies for the climate sciences, signed by 221,000 people today, echoes these days, so that the climate crisis is a priority political problem. The emergency is hitting the entire Globo hard, and certainly Italy, both for its location in the Mediterranean area in the process of tropicalization, both for its geological fragility, and for the extreme vulnerability of the built. In this last summer, first drought and fires devastated fields and forests, then came the turn of floods and storms; Lake Como, Trentino, Monteforte Irpino, Stromboli and Scilla, August 12, Liguria, Tuscany, Emilia-Romagna and Veneto, August 18, with impetuous winds. There were two victims in Tuscany and tornades in Spinea, Chioggia and Bondeno. Caserta, Capri, Vieste and Bitti were then hit. Yeah, still a flood nightmare in Bitti. This year has created the most extreme combination of hot and dry ever seen since the beginning of the nineteenth century. The Mediterranean is warmer than 5-6 degrees and the available energy could trigger clouds and autumn floods, near floods, air trumpets, supercells and mesocyclons, causing deaths, injuries and damage. The latest report from the Institute for Environmental Protection and Research reminds us that 94 percent of Italian municipalities are at risk for landslides, floods or coastal erosions. Yeah, 94 percent, almost all of it. If we do not want the ever more frequent and intense weather events to turn into disasters, the path of prevention is forced, even more in times of climate change that requires both a strong global contrast and a local adaptation. In conclusion, the focus of hydrogeological risk prevention is knowledge and the cornerstone of knowledge... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-464.ana.u255	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 18.06 a.m.
