ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.42 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 14 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: I would like to inform you, Mr President, that today I have resigned to the Head of State the resignation of the government I chaired. The President of the Republic did not accept my resignation and invited the Government to present itself to Parliament to make communications. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, established the articulation of the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. After the intervention of the President of the Council, the sitting will be suspended to allow the delivery to the Chamber of Deputies of the text of the communications given to the Senate. The sitting will resume at 11 a.m. with the debate, for which the following times have been allocated to the Groups, taking into account also specific requests, for a total of five hours and thirty minutes. The President-in-Office's reply and explanations of vote on any policy instruments presented will follow. The Conference of Leaders will be convened again at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u5	The next item is the communication by the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that the direct television broadcast with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I resigned last Thursday in the hands of the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella. This decision was followed by the failure of the majority of national unity which supported this Government since its inception. The President of the Republic rejected my resignation and asked me to inform Parliament of what happened, a decision I shared. Today's communications allow me to explain to you and to all Italians the reasons for a choice as distressed as due. Last February the President of the Republic entrusted me with the task of forming a Government to deal with the three emergencies that Italy had before: pandemic, economic and social. A government - these were his words - of high profile, that should not identify with any political formula; a government that responds promptly to serious emergencies that cannot be postponed. All major parties, with one exception, decided to respond positively to that appeal. In my address to this House, I made explicit reference to the Republican spirit of the Government, which would be based on the assumption of national unity. In recent months, national unity has been the best guarantee of the democratic legitimacy of this Executive and its effectiveness. I believe that a President-in-Office of the Council who has never stood before the voters should have the broadest possible support in Parliament. This assumption is even more important in a context of emergency, in which the Government must make decisions that have a profound impact on the life of Italians. The very broad consensus that the Government has enjoyed in Parliament has allowed it to have that timeliness in the decisions that the President of the Republic had requested. For a long time the forces of the majority have been able to set aside divisions and converge with a sense of state and generosity towards rapid and effective interventions for the good of all citizens. Thanks to health containment measures, vaccination campaigns, economic support measures for families and businesses, we have managed to overcome the most acute phase of the pandemic and to boost economic recovery. The drive to invest and the protection of household incomes has enabled us to get out of the pandemic recession faster than other countries. Last year the economy grew by 6.6%; the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product fell by 4.5 percentage points. The drafting of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, approved by a very large majority by this Parliament, has started a path of reforms and investments that has no precedent in recent history. The reforms of justice, competition, taxation and procurement, in addition to the comprehensive simplification agenda, are an essential step forward in modernising Italy. To date, all the objectives of the first two semesters of the PNRR have been achieved. We have already received EUR 45.9 billion from the European Commission, to which will be added in the coming weeks a further EUR 21 billion, a total of almost EUR 67 billion. With the strong parliamentary support of the majority and the opposition, we have reacted with absolute firmness to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. The condemnation of Russian atrocities and full support for Ukraine have shown how Italy can and should have a leading role within the European Union and the G7. [[Applause]] At the same time, we have never ceased our quest for peace; a peace that must be acceptable to Ukraine, sustainable, lasting. We were among the first to work so that Russia and Ukraine could work together to avoid a food disaster and at the same time open a negotiating window. The progress made last week in Turkey is encouraging and we hope that it can be consolidated. We have moved very quickly to overcome the unacceptable energy dependence on Russia, as a result of decades of short-sighted and dangerous choices. In a few months we have reduced our Russian gas imports from 40% to less than 25% of the total and we intend to cancel them within a year and a half: it seemed unthinkable, which gives tranquillity to the future of industry and to families; it strengthens our national security, our credibility in the world. We have accelerated, with profound simplifications and massive investments, on the renewable energy front to defend the environment and increase our energy independence and we have taken decisive action to protect citizens and businesses from the consequences of the energy crisis, with particular attention to the weakest. We have allocated 33 billion in just over a year, almost two percentage points of GDP, although our margins of public finance were narrow. We have been able to do this thanks to a renewed collective credibility, which has contained the increase in the cost of debt even at a period of rise in interest rates. The merit of these results was yours, your willingness to put aside differences and work for the good of the country, with equal dignity, in mutual respect. Yours was the best response to last February's appeal by the President of the Republic and to the call for seriousness, the need for protection, the concerns for the future that come from the citizens. The Italians in turn supported this civil miracle and have become the real protagonists of the policies that, from time to time, we put on the field. I am thinking of the patient respect for restrictions to curb the pandemic and the extraordinary participation in the vaccination campaign. I am thinking of the spontaneous welcome offered to Ukrainian refugees, welcomed in homes and schools, with affection and solidarity. I am thinking of the involvement of local communities at the PNRR, which has made it the largest transformation project from the bottom of recent history. Never before have I been proud to be Italian. [[Applause]] Italy is strong when it knows how to be united. Unfortunately, with the passing of the months, this demand for cohesion coming from the citizens, the political forces have opposed an increasing desire for distinction, for division. The reforms of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, of the land registry, of the bathing concessions have shown a progressive offset of the majority on the agenda of modernization of the Country. In foreign policy, we have seen attempts to weaken the government's support for Ukraine, to break our opposition to President Putin's plan. The demands for further debt have become stronger, just when the need for attention to debt sustainability was greatest. The desire to move forward together has been progressively exhausted and with it the ability to act effectively, promptly, in the interest of the country. As I said in the Council of Ministers, last Thursday's vote confirmed the end of the confidence pact that this majority held together. Not to vote for a government to which you belong is a clear political gesture, which has a clear meaning. It is not possible to ignore it, because it would be tantamount to ignoring Parliament. It is not possible to contain it, because it would mean that anyone can repeat it. [[Applause]] It is not possible to minimize it, because it comes after months of tearing and ultimatum. The only way, if we still want to stay together, is to rebuild this pact again with courage, altruism and credibility. [[Applause.]] [[Comments from the FdI Group]] It is the Italians who ask for it. The mobilization of these days by citizens, associations and territories in favor of the continuation of the Government is unprecedented and impossible to ignore. [[Applause]] It has involved the third sector, school, university, the world of the economy, the professions, entrepreneurship and sport: it is an undeserved support, but for which I am greatly grateful. Two appeals struck me in a particular way: the first is that of about two thousand mayors [[Applause]] , authorities accustomed to dealing daily with the problems of their communities. The second is that of health workers, the heroes of the pandemic, to whom our gratitude is immense. [[Applause. Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] This question of stability requires us all to decide whether it is possible to recreate the conditions under which the Government can really govern. That is the heart of our debate today, and that is the sense of commitment that we must confront before the citizens. Italy needs a Government capable of moving effectively and promptly on at least four fronts. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan is a unique opportunity to improve our long-term growth, to create opportunities for young people and women, to heal inequalities from those between North and South. By the end of this year we must achieve 55 targets, which will enable us to receive a new EUR 19 billion instalment. The objectives concern key issues such as digital infrastructure, support for tourism, the creation of university housing and research grants, and the fight against undeclared work. Completing the PNRR is a matter of seriousness towards our citizens and our European partners. If we do not show that we can spend this money efficiently and honestly, it will be impossible to ask for new common crisis management tools. The progress of the PNRR requires the realization of many investments that make it up, from railways to broadband, from kindergartens to community homes. We must commit ourselves to carrying out all the projects we have designed with the decisive contribution of the local communities. We must be united against unnecessary bureaucracy, that which too often delays the development of the country, and we must make sure that the territorial authorities, starting with the municipalities, have all the tools necessary to overcome any problems of implementation. At the same time, we must move forward with reforms, which together with investments are the heart of the PNRR. The reform of the Public Procurement Code aims to ensure the rapid implementation of public works and the strengthening of anti-corruption instruments. We need to keep the mobs away from the PNRR. [[Applause]] It is the best way to honor the memory of Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino. [[Live and prolonged applause. The Assembly stands]] It is the best way to honor the memory of John Falcone, Paolo Borsellino and the men and women of their stocks, thirty years after their barbaric killing. The reform of the Procurement Code has been approved and the work is under way to prepare the plans of delegated decrees, which must be dismissed by March of next year. The reform of competition serves to promote growth, reduce incomes, promote investment and employment. In this spirit, we have adopted rules to remove barriers to market opening and consumer protection. The reform concerns local public services, including taxis and concessions of goods and services, including bathing concessions. The draft law must be approved before the summer break in order to allow further approval of the decrees delegated by the PNRR by the end of the year. We now need strong support for the Commission's action, not support for unauthorized and sometimes violent protests against the majority in government. [[Applause. Comments. Recalls of the President]] As far as justice is concerned, we have approved the reform of the criminal process, the civil process and bankruptcy procedures, and we have brought tax justice reform to Parliament. These reforms are essential to have fair and rapid processes, as the Italians ask us. It is a question of freedom, democracy and also prosperity. The deadlines set by the PNRR are very precise: we must complete by the end of the year the procedure for implementing the decrees of civil and criminal delegation law; the law of tax reform is under discussion in the Senate and must be approved by the end of the year. Finally, last autumn the Government started the bill delegates for the revision of the tax. We are aware that in Italy the tax system is complex and often unfair: for this reason we have never increased taxes on citizens; however, for this reason we must proceed with an effort of transparency. We intend to reduce IRPEF rates from medium to low incomes, to exceed IRAP, to rationalise VAT. The first steps were taken by the last budget law, which initiated the revision of the IRPEF and the reform of the collection system. In Italy, the Revenue-Risk Agency has 1,100 billion euros of residual credits, i.e. not collected, equal to more than 60% of the national gross domestic product: an impressive figure. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo.]] We must therefore approve as soon as possible the tax reform, which includes the completion of the collection reform, and launch immediately after the implementing decrees. Alongside the PNRR, there is a need for a real social agenda that starts with the weakest, such as the disabled and the elderly who are not self-sufficient. The increase in energy costs and the return of inflation have caused new inequalities that aggravate those produced by the pandemic. Since the start of the Government we have shared with trade unions and business associations a working method that includes regular meetings and work tables. This method has already been used to manage some of the country's emergencies: from the resumption of production activities in the pandemic phase to the safety of work, on which much has been done and much remains to be done. Today it is essential to continue this discussion and to define, from a shared perspective, the actions to be carried out in the next budget law. This year the development of public finance is better than expected and allows us to intervene, as we have done so far, without any new budgetary deviations. It is necessary to adopt within the first days of August - and I stress within the first days of August - a full measure to mitigate the impact on citizens and businesses of rising energy costs and then strengthen purchasing power, especially of the weakest sections of the population. Reducing the tax burden on workers, starting with lower wages, is a medium-term objective. This is a point on which trade unions and entrepreneurs agree. With the last budget law, we have adopted a first and temporary intervention. We must add another one quickly, within the limits of our financial resources. There is also a need to push for the renewal of collective agreements: many, including trade and services, have expired for too many years. Collective bargaining is one of the strengths of our industrial model for the extension and quality of protection, but it does not yet reach all workers. At European level, a directive on minimum wages is finally being adopted, and it is in this direction that we must move, together with the social partners, ensuring decent wage levels for the most suffering groups of workers. [[Applause]] Citizenship income is an important measure to reduce poverty, but it can be improved to help those in greatest need [[Applause]] and reduce negative effects on the labour market. There is a need for pension reform to ensure exit flexibility mechanisms [[Comments of Senator Paragon]] and a sustainable plant anchored to the contributory system. Italy must continue to redesign its energy policy as it has done in recent months. This week's summit in Algiers confirms our absolute determination to diversify suppliers, to push renewable energy firmly. To do this, we need the necessary infrastructure. We must speed up the installation of regasifiers in Piombino and Ravenna. It is not possible to claim to want the energy security of Italians and then at the same time protest against this infrastructure. [[Applause]] These plants are safe, essential for our energy needs, for the maintenance of our production fabric. In particular, we must complete the installation of the Piombino regasifier by next spring: it is a matter of national security. [[Applause]] At the same time, we urgently need to continue the energy transition to clean sources: by 2030, we need to install about 70 gigawatts of renewable energy plants. The drought and waves of abnormal heat that have hit Europe in recent weeks remind us of the urgency of dealing seriously with the climate crisis as a whole. I am also thinking of measures to improve the management of water resources, the maintenance of which has often been seriously lacking. The PNRR allocates more than 4 billion for these investments, with a more urgent water plan. With regard to measures for energy efficiency and, more generally, building bonuses, we intend to address the critical issues in the transfer of tax credits, but at the same time reduce the generosity of contributions. As promised in my inaugural speech and supported by you in this House, this Government fully identifies itself in the European Union, in the transatlantic link. Our position is clear and strong in the heart of the European Union, of the G7, of NATO. We must continue to support Ukraine in any way, as this Parliament has committed the Government to do with a parliamentary resolution. [[Applause]] As President Zelensky told me yesterday on the phone, arming Ukraine is the only way to allow Ukrainians to defend themselves. [[Applause. Comments]] PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Come on! Draghi, President of the Council of Ministers. At the same time, we must continue to work towards negotiating solutions, starting with the wheat crisis. We need to step up our efforts to combat interference from Russia and other autocracies in our politics and our society. Italy is a free and democratic country. [[Comments.]] In the face of those who want to try to seduce us with their authoritarian model, we must respond with the strength of European values. [[Applause. Comments of Senators Giarrusso and Paragon]] The European Union is our home and within it we must bring forward ambitious challenges. We must continue to fight for a roof at the price of Russian gas, which we would all benefit from, and for the reform of the electricity market, which can begin with the domestic market, even before European agreements. These measures are essential to defend the purchasing power of households and to protect business levels of production. The reform of the common budgetary and defence rules and the overcoming of the principle of unanimity will also soon be discussed in Europe. In all these fields Italy has much to say with credibility, constructive spirit and without any subalternity. There are other commitments that the Commission wants to make, such as the reform of the basic medical system and the debate on the recognition of different forms of autonomy. But all this requires a Government that is really strong and cohesive and a Parliament that accompanies it with conviction, in mutual respect for roles. Italy does not need a confidence in the façade that disappears before the uncomfortable measures: a new pact of sincere and concrete trust is needed, such as that which has allowed us to change the country for the better so far. Are the parties and you parliamentarians ready to rebuild this pact? [[Applause]] Are you ready? Are you ready to confirm that effort you made in the first few months and that you then faded? We are in this House today - I am here today in this House - at this point in the debate just because the Italians have asked for it. [[Comments by Senators De Bertoldi and La Russa.]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Let them vote! Draghi, President of the Council of Ministers. That answer... [[Comments.]] This answer to these questions you don't have to give to me... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u7	Colleagues, please, you have five and a half hours to discuss and there are not a few.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u8	Please, President Draghi. Draghi, President of the Council of Ministers. The answer to these questions must be given not to me, but to all Italians. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u9	The sitting will now be suspended to allow the delivery to the Chamber of Deputies of the text of the communications rendered to the Senate. The sitting will resume at 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.21 a.m. and resumed at 11.07 a.m.) The session is resumed. I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u10	Madam President, I think that it will take even less than the minutes that have been allocated to me to make the speech, because things are not as complicated and confused as they seem, but - as in every decisive moment for the country - they have their own linearity. We parliamentarians are here today for an assumption of responsibility that is individual and collective [[Applause]] We are here, ladies and gentlemen, not only on behalf of the parliamentary groups - I have the honour of representing the Group for the Autonomies - but also as individual parliamentarians. Allow me to make a note that I do not know whether it is comical or tragic and perhaps it is neither so comical nor so tragic. Perhaps someone outside this House has already solved the problem of individual and collective responsibility. I see that there are two Members of Parliament who should stand here and represent the battles of their voters, particularly against a President who has always opposed, who I understand is in Nicaragua to give solidarity to the Sandinista revolution. [[Applause]] Madam President, this is the comedian. But, if anti-politics is reduced to this dimension, I am not afraid to say "live the old politics," which in terms of decorum and dignity can certainly give a lesson of etiquette. Colleagues, once I've solved Petrocelli and Dessì's problem, I'd like to talk about what I read in some newspaper this morning coming here. Newspapers usually end up getting almost more informed about crises than we do. There was someone asking President Draghi for a signal, waiting for President Draghi to signal. I asked myself: as a Member of Parliament and as a Senator, do I expect a signal? But what a sign, I'm sorry. Are we talking smoke signals? Are we playing? What's the signal we're waiting for from Dragons? Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is no sign that we are waiting for. We must answer the crucial question of the President-in-Office of the Council's intervention, in particular we who voted for confidence a few days ago. We are called to re-vote trust in the Draghi Government - let's say - to save conscience, as a kind of facade trust, or are we willing to say that, a few months before the end of the legislature, we want the Government to be able to govern in these months to respond to the problems of Italians? [[Applause]] The question is just this. Are we making a pantomime? In other words, do we trust President Draghi this evening and tomorrow morning we are in the streets to demonstrate with the taxi drivers, who are putting cities in fire and ironing, or are we willing to loyally support, even in the country, the Government we support with our vote in Parliament? That's just the point. This is not the message that the President-in-Office of the Council must give us. The problem is politics, whose dignity we are called upon to respect with our vote in Parliament. [[Applause]] The reasons why we are prepared to vote on it, Mr President, are the reasons that I now summarize, which are largely what you said: we believe that the PNRR should be completed; We want to secure and protect the incomes of families that are under stress from all points of view; we want to complete the reforms that are underway; we want to react to the energy and food crisis caused by the war on Ukraine and not in Ukraine, nor Ukraine. [[Applause]] What you have done, assisted by your Ministers, Foreign Affairs and other Dicasteries, is in the right direction. Algeria: great. What happened yesterday is not part of the ordinary administration of a government, but of Italy's strategic choice to diversify an energy dependence that we irresponsibly bent on a Russian hegemony. The theme of regasifiers is fundamental and applies to Ravenna and Piombino. We cannot fail to respond immediately to a problem called a national emergency. We are not in an age of ordinaryity: we are in a dramatic era, even for reasons completely independent of Italy, but for the global context in which we are living. I want to make a note to you, President-in-Office of the Council. You know that real friends always have to expect that little help to the truth that each of us thinks we can bring, and maybe I'm wrong. You are here today not only because the Italians asked you: you are here because there was no vote of no confidence in Parliament. [[Applause]] In fact, despite the decoupling of a parliamentary group, we have had numbers that have, in any case, consolidated the relationship of trust between the Government and Parliament. Parliament, in turn, has another connection, which is the relationship of trust that binds it to the people. If we evoke the Italians, we follow the path of those who legitimately evoke the elections. But today we believe that this evocation would be irresponsible, in the presence of those emergencies you have spoken of and that have been the basis for creating a government, which is not a government of political allies. And I would like to make a comment on that. Colleagues, I address myself to the PD, to the League, to Forza Italia, to all of us, to say that we must understand that a Government of this type is a Government of armistice, in which it is difficult to find the understanding and it is logical that it is so. In fact, if we were in a position to create an understanding from morning to evening, it would mean that we are completely sick, that our democracy no longer works. If alternative parties were in a position to easily reach agreements on divisive topics such as those we are talking about, it would mean that we no longer have divisiveness, while democracy, if it works, is conflictual, of course competitive between different parties. However, if we are all aware - and we are - that this is a Government of Armistice and that there are emergencies that have not invented Draghi, but unfortunately are determined by the conditions of the world, in giving confidence we must - yes - make a pact between us and avoid proposing in these months some flag measures that may be sacred, but are divisive in Parliament. In 2003, as President of the Chamber elected by a center-right majority, I declared myself in favour of ius soli. It was my personal and political choice that I am convinced of. I am convinced that the ius scholae, which we are now talking about, is sacrosanct, because it is a matter of uniting in a common destiny of sharing Italianity millions of children who are at school with our children. However, if this measure has a generalized ostracism of a part of the House, it is clear that it cannot become a further divisive element, because regasifiers cannot wait, as well as energy diversification. Perhaps on some points we are forced to take note of the reality. I say this by quoting the measure of which I am most convinced: of all the measures of which the PD is making itself a bishop, this is what sees me emotionally, sentimentally and rationally more convinced. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have only six months, after which the evocation of Italians will be natural. It is clear, in fact, that we are discussing whether this Government has to resolve some emergencies or whether we are so adventurists that we are determined by an electoral campaign in which the whole world wonders whether the Italians, in the conditions in which they are found, have gone crazy. More than the sacred appeals of all categories, I am concerned about the judgment of the world, which wonders whether we are discussing whether to go to the elections two months before or two months later. However, holding them two months earlier, there is also the impossibility of enacting the budget law, because this is a further emergency that would force Italy to go into a sort of financial and economic provisionality, with markets ready to beat us, and not for the faults of Draghi, that if anything is the shield against a traditional debt of Italy that puts us objectively in the conditions of being observed special. Colleagues, I conclude my speech by making just one last remark, which relates to Europe, to the G7, to NATO and also to the phrase, from someone with irony, that Zelensky told the President of the Council - as has rightly been reported - that the only way to defend them is that we arm them. That's right. Colleagues, as I said last time, democracy requires time, while dictatorships can wait as long as they want. The dictatorships, moreover, trust in our divisions: I am very happy that Johnson has fallen in the United Kingdom, that Macron has a majority difficult to find in Parliament and would celebrate if the Italian Government fell today. We must also show that democracy can have moments of difficulty, as we have had and as perhaps we are having with the present problems to come to an agreement in Parliament. However, democracies are stronger and stronger and deserve to be defended. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u11	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u12	Mr President, the two minutes I have at my disposal are few to deal with such an important government crisis and, therefore, I will go for commercials on some government slogans: with the green pass we return to normal, except for the suspended workers, the economy, the restaurateurs, a real blackmail to the civil rights of people. Again: the vaccine is salvation, but - according to data from the Ministry of Health - we are still in emergency, a total failure. The EU is stability: we are at war, a war that has caused an economic and energy crisis. Besides, we want peace and we send weapons. [[Applause from Senator Martelli]] Changing topic: ITA (Alitalia) will be nationalized, and we are selling it to foreign companies. These are some points that demonstrate the failure of this majority. In addition, the Movimento 5 Stars opens a crisis on the thermoenergy plant in Rome. Well, the Raggi has created an open-air dump in Rome: you should pay a waste-to-energy to pay for the damage of your former mayor. An appeal: taxi drivers are not criminals, they are not putting our cities in fire, but they are defending their families. This is a fake. Long live the protesting workers! We will go to the square to protest, even if today I am convinced that you will fall. [[Applause from Senators Giarrusso and Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u13	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, President-in-Office of the Council, if we get to a vote today, as I believe - even if it is not taken for granted - I will ultimately vote for the trust of the Draghi Government. However, I must say that in recent months I have never damaged criticism of the action of this Government, which has characterized itself for some particular choices. I am referring, for example, to the Alitalia-ITA issue or also to the choice, which was also mentioned in the President-in-Office's speech, on differentiated autonomy. We know what we're talking about, but we don't know where we're going with that choice. That was an unholy 2001 choice of a left-wing majority. If we go on in that choice, Minister Gelmini, consolidating and confirming temporarily - for the temporaryity that characterizes us in Italy - at least twenty years, we will go towards breakdown. We will go towards a legislative regionalization that will no longer allow us to say that every Italian citizen is equal before the law, because there will be as many laws as there are the Regions; there will be so much concentration of resources in the Regions that have more resources today and there will be no more possibility of equalization. These are just a few hints for which I have not damaged and I will never harm this Government, President Draghi, and yet today politics - that of today's parties - is not capable of offering an alternative. It was said. Before us, in the event of a confirmed resignation from the Dragons Government, we have months of emptiness, in an absolutely critical period, in a situation that no one could call normal. I shall therefore vote for the Government of the Dragons, which, however, cannot be subject to the blackmail of the various political parties. President Draghi, I was sorry to hear about differentiated autonomy in your speech, because it is something that upsets the republican institutions, putting at a certain point in crisis the same article 5 of the Constitution that - yes - speaks of forms of autonomy, but as residuals, to mark the specificities of some territories, as has been done with Sicily and Sardinia. We, on the other hand, are now giving rise to formal inequality before the law. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the fact that you have no alternative does not allow you and does not allow anyone to question the institutions. In conclusion, since my time is running out, you have spoken of the need to have a majority corresponding to the one that set it up: a national unity. Here, well, a symmetry is necessary between the concept of national unity and the unity of the Republic, and not only. His personal view of the majority, for which he believes that he may have to resign, if he does not have a plebiscite majority from this branch of Parliament and from the House of Deputies, I believe that it is absolutely legitimate, but absolutely questionable, of the institutional forms. Mr President, if you have a majority, whatever it is, you cannot give a personal interpretation, which is absolutely questionable, and resign. He cannot do this: he must assume the responsibility of the Government and move forward, even if he will not have obtained the majority he wishes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u15	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you first came to this House for a vote of confidence at the beginning of your term of office, perhaps you will remember that I said that I will be with you and with you, in good and bad luck. Not because you had to do the begging, of course, but because I know a little bit about things. Everyone has a period, more or less long, of honeymoon and then trouble begins, especially in a pre-election year. I would like to tell you right away that I expect you to stay and, more than that, I also think that you have a duty to stay, because Parliament, neither here nor there, has ever distrusted you, on the contrary. I'm not part of the "Back home, Lassie!" intergroup. And not even that other "Stay with us!". [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]] I want to be part of a megagroup that shared and shares his words and program, even in its hardness, which for me is simply clarity. [[Applause]] So all of us, ladies and gentlemen, if we approve, then we must take charge - all of us - of this programme. We don't have to start, after a week, the pull and drop, the spring and pull, add this or add to the other: frankly we have already given! [[Applause]] And you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have already given. It is true that a strong request came from the country, but let us not confuse it with populism: therefore calm, because this is seen in the elections. [[Applause from Senator Faithful]] I hate appeals, think about it. I think, however, that the decision must come from us Members of Parliament, together with you, knowing the responsibilities that we assume. Let's not pretend that, after a week, we're back and we're back at Tarallucci and wine. I hope that this awareness is there, because there is too much at stake for our country, in Europe, and for Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u16	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u17	Mr President, President Draghi, the firmness and consistency with which you have faced the crisis that has been opened these days by the lack of confidence in Movimento 5 Stars has lifted the veil of hypocrisy that for too long surrounds Italian politics, a continuous and unbearable mismatch between words and action, between declarations and concrete choices, which can be summed up in a simplification: all for word reforms, all for the preservation of choices; all for the necessary change, but it is always better to start with others. The plastic representation of this inconsistency - ironic of fate - is precisely in these days: all the parties to ask her to remain as the only bulwark of seriousness at this difficult moment and, while she was working in Algeria for the closure of necessary and fundamental agreements to guarantee energy for our country, in Piombino, under the flags of Italian Left, Democratic Party, League, Brothers of Italy and Movimento 5 Stars were all united to say "to the regasifier." [[Applause]] You were committed to the real needs of Italians, the parties instead to block what is necessary for the country: the easiest way to collect consent. Moreover, this crisis has begun just like this, with the umpteenth act of the comedy - or tragedy - populist: the lawyer of the people announces that they will not vote for the trust on the decree-law aid and links that gesture with the difficulties that will come in the homes and families of the Italians in autumn. He forgot - or deliberately failed to say - that a government crisis is the best way to aggravate those incoming conditions, which are already difficult in themselves. Then there are Ukraine and the conflict that is dangerously slipping out of our attention and also out - or strongly at the margins - of our media in everyday life. You have guaranteed an authoritative and determined position for our country to assure the Ukrainian people and the Government of Kiev of all the necessary support. It is no coincidence that those who provoked and stirred up ambiguity in the difficulties of these days were also those who, precisely on the firmness of their position towards Ukraine's support and the sanctions against Russia, built up the most smoky and ambiguous arguments. [[Applause]] You see, President, Italy is not all in this cleverness, it is not all in this ambiguity. There has been a cry these days, from associations to businesses, from the world of school to university, from mayors to so many individual citizens, which shows that to have the right to try again together are not parties, parliamentary groups or politics in the broad sense. The right to try again together to overcome the difficulties of an uncertain time... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . . which will give this Parliament, at the next electoral deadline, a more consistent representation of this demand for seriousness and concreteness. Breaking this cage built by an inconclusive bipolarism is a duty, but doing so without making the Italians and future generations pay the bill is a responsibility that we carry with you, President, from the first day, and we will continue to do so by your side for the entire duration of your Government, with the pride of those with populists and sovereign alliances never made it for a minute of this legislature and never will. [[Applause from Senators Grimani and Masini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u18	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u19	Mr President, after listening to President Draghi's communications, which I greatly appreciated for the punctuality of the issues and the frankness of the situation, I have even more the impression that politics is now risking the bone of the neck, because, when there is collective credibility and a sense of national unity at stake, this happens: politics risks the bone of the neck. The outcome of this crisis will not be neutral on the judgement that Italians will give of the politics and institutions of this country in the coming months. So there are two sides of politics that we can show today: the first wants to represent the needs of the country, regardless of anything else; the second is the constant search for the relationship between needs and solutions and responsibility in the given context. In the abstract, both are legitimate, but if the context is pandemic, PNRR, war in Europe, inflation close to 10%, wages to the minimum for decades, energy crisis and water crisis, then those two sides of politics are not legitimately equal. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Four months without government: if you stop and dissolve the Chambers today, with in the middle of a budget law to do, they are a serious damage to the country. And if so, to represent needs without working equally on solutions means to ride social fragility, not to heal them. We support this Government to heal social fragility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President Draghi, whether to continue or not should then be a much simpler matter than you think: if emergency conditions have failed - and I do not think so - or if you have lost your harmony with the country - and I do not think so - your government must stop; otherwise, you must continue. For the Democratic Party, its Government must continue [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because no partisan interest can upset this duty. That pact of national responsibility of only eighteen months ago we signed it for something perhaps even higher than our individual political identities, namely the awareness that we could all do better for Italy at such an exceptional stage. We are ready and available, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, again. I hope and hope that they all are. I could also finish my speech here, but the delicacy of the situation requires us to try to grasp some deeper motivations about today's passage, also to avoid - I add - someone speculating on the word "responsibility." The responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is never cold, but always has a soul, if you want to give it to him. During the pandemic, we discussed for a long time new paradigms for the economy, for the environment, for health, for work. And now let us abandon everything like this and let our democracy - not all democracies, but ours - undergo the great transformations that are taking place in the global world and be helpless in the face of new social fractures and individual insecurities? Pandemics and war in Ukraine - or Ukraine - have pushed Europe towards a more supportive and social face, but if President Draghi's authoritative voice is missing and if Italy's international role fails, do we really think that such fragile, though urgent, cultural evolution can continue? If we stop now, other than reforms; other than 19 billion PNRR; the meaning of common instruments and common debt is missing, therefore the substantial sovereignty of Italy. [[Applause]] That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next four months are not just any four months; they are four months of present and future. We're all worried about an autumn that might be difficult. We in the Democratic Party believe that we need to intervene quickly and with all possible resources to support wages and work and to avoid new inequalities. However, as you have, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is no social agenda or employment and wages without Italy being a more modern country, without investment or a solid axis between trade unions and companies. Let us be honest, colleagues: only if the government continues, will there be new billions for social interventions, otherwise not. [[Applause]] I repeat: otherwise, no. This, my friends on the left, wherever you are in this Chamber, should be worth double for the left. I am beginning to conclude on this very point, Mr President. When Enrico Berlinguer, in 1977, responds to Monsignor Bettazzi's letter, he does not mark the distances between his people and that of Christian Democracy. To better represent him, his people do not mark distances from others, but speak of the common challenge of a secular and democratic state, to represent everyone better. This is the figure of the left: not a part, but all. President Draghi, Italy needs a policy that is up to date and needs you. Today the two things coincide. Go on. [[Applause from the PD Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u20	She's registered to speak with Senator Pacific. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u21	President, colleagues, Government. President Draghi, in recent months you have been able to face, together with Parliament, unimaginable challenges until yesterday: Russia's unjustified and unprecedented aggression against Ukraine has exposed the European Union and Italy in particular more than other parts of the world, given the strong energy dependence of our country on Russian gas. Monday's mission to Algeria was the last stage of a successful diplomatic action that allowed Italy to regain its natural role as protagonist in the Mediterranean. It is time to make strategic and courageous choices, starting with a great energy plan, as you mentioned in your report. A crisis of government in the dark could lead to a serious rationalization of gas in the autumn; families and businesses expect concrete answers, not endless meetings and electoral debates. The mission to Ankara, then, ten years after the last summit in Rome, saw the commitment of the whole Government to unblock food and fertilizers in cities on the Black Sea to prevent a global food crisis. You, President Draghi, have been able to restore dialogue with Turkey, which is essential in giving impetus to the process of reconciliation with Libya, as well as in building a more coordinated management of migration flows, for the benefit of all. Italy, thanks to you, President Draghi, has moved quickly to dialogue with all the actors in the region, even those who often do not have good relations with each other. This commendable work, carried out internationally to ensure the security of energy supplies already in the short term, is before everyone's eyes and on behalf of all Italians I thank you. We of Courage Italy think that it is necessary to continue the legislature until the natural deadline, but, if the Chambers are to be dissolved, then we will face the ballot boxes firmly to give the sovereign people the opportunity to choose a new parliamentary and government representation. The appeal of the mayors of the largest cities of Italy, which you have mentioned, to which others have been added, almost 2,000 on the whole, of different political orientations, is proof that this Government can be proud of what it has achieved to date. But now, Mr Draghi, it is time for responsibility. The management and resolution of citizens' problems must be the priority of all political forces and not only of the President-in-Office of the Council, who has seen his commitment and determination clash with the irresponsibility of a majority. In this particular historical moment, characterized by major emergencies, such as drought, pandemic, war and economic, energy and food crisis, it is necessary to put the supreme good of the community before the internal problems of the parties. We need action, credibility and seriousness. I ask you, Mr Draghi, but above all my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has the magic wand to solve the challenges that concern citizens. We must work to avoid further increase in energy prices and to formulate a fair budgetary law. We have less than eight months to work on the current challenges in a spirit of cohesion, including by sacrificing individual party programmes. Time is short and we have already lost too much of it; we cannot turn our backs on citizens now. President Draghi, I am sure you will not do that. We of the MAIE-Coraggio Italia component of the Mixed Group will be at your side so that you can continue until the end of the legislature. It is with this spirit that we also address the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella. [[Applause from Senator Causin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u23	Mr Draghi, in your speech you said that we must keep the mobs away from the PNRR. But how do you intend to keep them away from the PNRR, we ask ourselves about Italexit? Freeing the mobsters from life? By freeing the capimafia from the 41-a regime and allowing them to weave their relationships again? Is that how you intend to keep them away from the PNRR? President Draghi, you made a field choice and included in your team the main responsible for disorganization of the main rules that presided over the fight against the Mafia and that were the legacy of the sacrifice of Falcone and Borsellino: 41- bis and life imprisonment. [[Applause from Senators De Vecchis and Martelli.]] She is there next to you who is responsible for all this: the Minister of Justice. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV Group and Senator Paragon. Comments from PD and IV-PSI Groups]] Those rules were written with the blood of the one who gave his life and you are erasing them. [[Applause from Senator Paragon. Comments from PD and IV-PSI Groups]] You, Mr Draghi, had the courage to quote the great reform of the criminal trial, as if you did not know that a few days ago your European friends rejected it, considering it dangerous. [[Applause from Senators Paragon and Hammers]] You know what for? For the corruption trials. Europe says so. Thanks to you and your bad Minister of Justice, we have become special Europeans because corruption trials risk being wiped out of Cartabia. This is a shame! [[Applause from Senators Paragon and Hammers]] Finally, Mr Draghi, forgive me, but you in this House have once again shown your old and never forgotten face, namely that of rigour and ferocity towards the last who do not arrive at the end of the month, talking about the insustainability of pensions. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]] I say to you, on behalf of the Italians, that the unsustainable pensions are those like yours and the privileged like you, that Italexit wants to abolish. [[Applause from the Mixed-IPI-PVU and UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u24	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u25	Mr President, our choices show what we are much more than our abilities. I begin with this quotation, President Draghi, because your speech reminded me of it. President Draghi, thank you for your speech and I say straightaway that I am my own - I wish I could say that we are making our own, with great seriousness and a spirit of discipline - the call that you have made to everyone today about our commitment to the role we have. You, Mr Draghi, have clearly told us where we have arrived this year and a half of your Government, what we have managed to put in place thanks to your work and your ministers, but also thanks to the work of all of us: and we thank you for saying so. We have accepted with seriousness and with a great spirit of responsibility the challenge of the resources that the PNRR requires us to accept, also and especially towards our mayors, that here I want to thank, first citizens and first citizens who daily, in their cities, especially in small municipalities, really put themselves at the service of their community. In these two years they have always been at the forefront, every day, especially during the pandemic, to face unimaginable challenges and have done so in a spirit of dedication, a spirit to which we must absolutely look. We still have so many reforms - which you have mentioned, Mr President - to take to the end and to carry out, in order to make the PNRR truly complete and to be able to apply it completely. We have infrastructure, of a material and immaterial type, which demands our commitment and on which we still have to work in a spirit of total self-denial. And only with you in charge, President Draghi, with your Government and its Ministers, who have always worked with us, until now, with this sense of absolute willingness towards the country, can we move forward. You, President Draghi, gave us an idea of a country, an idea of a community, not only as far as Italy is concerned but - I add - also the international community. Its presence at those tables and in Europe, especially at this time of serious international crisis, and its precise direction, together with its Ministers, have certainly given the idea of a strong and determined Italy, which, even at the international level, has gained much strength. We are ready, President Draghi, together with you and your Government, to take up again the challenge of carrying forward what you have defined, with great "impact" (the term is given to me), a civil miracle. Being part of a civil miracle imposes a great sense of responsibility on us. They almost shake their arms to think that they are part of it at this historic moment and that they can therefore help bring it forward, together with the citizens and the citizens, who we also thank, as you did, for making themselves available and for being so involved, especially in these two years of pandemics. We have the task of healing inequalities, as the President-in-Office of the Council said. I repeat that we have a unique opportunity at this time, because, thanks to the resources of the PNRR, perhaps we can take a step forward with respect to the implementation of Article 3 of the Constitution which, in paragraph 2, clearly states that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, so that all citizens can be equally equal. [[Applause]] We have this challenge to face, President Draghi. All of us, colleagues and colleagues, have it. I also appeal to our pride: we do not only have the great reforms to carry out together with the Government. Each of us, in the Commissions to which he belongs, has taken care of measures that we must take to the end. I could mention a lot of them, but I am referring only to a few: the reform of justice, also mentioned by President Draghi, the minimum wage and the bill on flowering (and here I also appeal to my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture). How many issues each of us is pursuing, even on issues that may seem secondary at this time, but that are not. Each of us, ladies and gentlemen, must have the ambition, at this moment, to say that we have not only planted flags, but that we believe in the measures that each of us must take at the end of this parliamentary term. We have a draft law on community businesses and one on the expenses of children in communities, colleagues of the league. We have an important draft law on the end of life, of which I am rapporteur with other colleagues; this issue cannot be postponed any longer. For us, for the Democratic Party, civil rights, infrastructure and social rights are all on the same level. [[Applause]] and we have the ambition, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we can do everything together. Yes, Mr President, we are faced with a mirror that we can no longer avoid: the whole of Italy and the international community nail us to the image that we are giving and that we reflect. Do we want to continue to compete and increase, to prolong the civil miracle that President Draghi has told us that so far we have competed to carry on or do we want to quit? We have realised that we have little time to do this, so we must absolutely rely on this Government and move forward. The concreteness that imposes on us the moment is absolutely what must guide us and it is the concreteness that the Government has carried out so far and that the Democratic Party intends to continue to carry on. I conclude with the quotation of a saint very dear to me, St. Ignatius of Loyola, a warrior who in his vigil of arms abandons the spirit of battle to put himself at the service of someone greater, but above all of the citizens: "whoever wants to reform the world begins with himself." We are in this position; perhaps, colleagues and colleagues, looking at us in the mirror and thinking about what we can change each of us, we will all be able to change this country together, together with the government that we ask to move forward. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u27	Mr President, Government, colleagues, there are precise moments in the history of a country in which the ruling class is called not only to respond to the present, but also and above all to the future. There are historical moments, as you all know, in which some decisions overpower much more than others. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to put it in the words of a well-known Italian singer-songwriter, 'Here we make history', a story that is all in our behaviors and decisions. Then I ask you and me how to make these decisions, what feelings to be guided and what is at the basis of our choices. Everyone in this House today can make a different personal and political calculation. If we were to think of the electoral data alone, the polls and the ephemeral popularity of likes on social media, which fascinate everyone a bit in our contemporary era, then there is no doubt that someone could agree to "push to go to the vote and blow it up." This could certainly guide us in our decisions: polls, electoral calculations and the opportunism that also exists, as we all know, in politics. Not today, however: at the time when our country is coming out of a pandemic that has upset us and is facing the effects of a war that is closer than it may seem, in the era in which we are called to spend the greatest amount of investment to us destined for the post-war period, I firmly believe that we cannot afford to reason on the basis of electoral calculations and a belly that risks only clouding our mind. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are only called to reason on the basis of our conscience and our responsibility. Today we must not decide whether we want to be considered by history as mere politicians or, as one would say in a derogatory, political way; today we want to try to become, as Sir Winston Churchill would say, men of state. As the man who raided the Nazi advance at the darkest hour had to say, the politician becomes a man of state when he begins to think about the next generations instead of the next elections. On the one hand, there is our responsibility; on the other hand, there are the national and international appeals of companies and the third sector that strongly demand the continuation of the Dragon Government. To these appeals I would like to add the voices of the citizens I have met: the mayors, the workers, the pensioner who fears that he will no longer be able to pay the bill, but also the student who would like the process of research reform not to be interrupted. They are citizens who ask this Parliament not to throw everything away. President Draghi, today we can make history, giving strength to this Executive, to which we will confirm, we of Together for the future Democratic Center, our trust. [[Applause from the Ipf-CD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u29	Mr President, on 17 February 2021, considering it to be one of the greatest architects of neoliberalism, that spectrum theorized by Milton Friedman, applied in Italy since 1992 to privatise and sell Italy, I did not vote for her trust. You recently said that the results achieved so far by the Government are due to the majority and the Italians. Let's see them, these disastrous results, albeit sweetened by the narration of media and newsreels "Rai Luce," to her genuflexi, which censor and conceal reality, pretending not to see millions of impoverished families, small and medium-sized enterprises staggered, commercial activities depleted, forced to choose whether to eat or pay the debitorial records, strangled by the sanctions boomerang and financial speculations on the price of gas, oil and raw materials, in the greatest mystification of the post-war period. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] The economic data on his seventeen months of government are pitiful, more than when, as president of the Financial Stability Fund (which had the task of preventing the moral hazard of bankers and systemic crises), he helped to overwhelm in 2008 the globalized world by the crack of Lehman Brothers, in one of the most serious recessions in history. You had been summoned as the man of providence seventeen months ago, after the farce consultations of the President of the House, to solve ancient problems; like a Robin Hood upside down, instead, in the country devoured by corruption and lawlessness, punishing honests and servants of the State, rewarding cracks and chores, instead of the expected miracles, has worsened economic indicators, dragging Italy into the foolish war for U.S.-NATO proxy [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] , which strengthened the United States, weakened Europe, impoverished the Italians. In January 2021 the public debt was 2,603 billion euros; the latest data of Bankitalia recorded, in May, 2,755 billion, an increase of 149 billion, 9,3 billion per month, 307 million per day, 12,8 million per hour. The spread below 100 basis points, instead of falling to 50 (title of the "Corriere della sera" of 15 February 2021), in its miracle upside down has more than doubled to 242 points. Inflation, which stops at 0.4 per cent, has reached 8 per cent, with 10 per cent projections. The euro-dollar exchange rate, at 1,2158, came under parity, at 0,99. The average fixed rates on global annual effective rate loans (TAEG) were 0.78, today is 3.67 percent. "Draghi" has written the "Wall Street Journal" has been one of the strongest voices among European leaders in favor of economic sanctions against Moscow and arms shipments to Ukraine. On June 21 in the Senate, after the press conferences with selected questions and prepared answers, in an impulse of involuntary comedy, she reiterated: The sanctions against Russia are working. Sure, they're working on Italians, choked by bills of light and tripled gas. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] On July 2, a newspaper wrote that current inflation translates, for a couple with two children, into a batter of 2.667 euros on an annual basis. In theory, she, with her magical touches, had to save the country, but in practice, as shown by the data, she dragged Italy into the antechamber of preferential bankruptcy, similar to Monte dei Paschi di Siena, when, in 2007, she deliberated Antonveneta's purchase at the crazy final price of 17 billion euros, giving the stroke of grace to the oldest bank, overwhelmed by a crack of 65.7 billion. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] Since 2006, she, together with her palace talents, headed by Javazzi and the supporters of the Chicago School, possessed by a contagious virus, similar to Covid-19, that totalitarian doctrine of dictatorial neoliberalism that spread poverty, poverty and despair to the globalized world, has accentuated poverty and social inequalities. In 2021, 5 million people employed in the private sector and young people under the age of 34 had the lowest wage levels, less than 12,000 euros, such as the 4 million INPS pensioners, 40% of the total. On pension reform, despite the promises to open three tables, one year has been lost; contractual renewals are on the stake, while workers see the purchasing power erode; it was well known its opposition to the superbonus at 110 percent, a measure that instead re-launched the construction sector, the occupation and the entire economy; the ecological transition, which was to be the banner of its government, has translated into actions pro nuclear energy, coal, regasifiers, incinerators and drills. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] You, with your government action, in Tax Decree-Law No 234 of 30 December 2021 exhumed the unfortunate use of financial bets with derivatives, even for local authorities, which in 2008 we succeeded in repealing after the financial failure. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] These are the same toxic instruments that the Director-General of the Treasury introduced in 1992 into the debt of the State, whose capestro contracts cost over 40 billion euros of interest only, while they fattened the budgets of JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs and other business banks dear to her. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] Days ago, the praised reform of justice, smuggled by Minister Cartabia as required by the European Union, was cut off by the Commission in its report on the rule of law 2022, because it weakens the fight against corruption and endangers the independence of judges. It also censored the reform of the CSM, whose ad hoc exclusion rule on Nino Di Matteo, one of the most intense magistrates in the fight against mafias, is a mark of shame. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group),]] Not to mention the tax law reform scheme under the direct control of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which, in addition to consolidating the prevalence of economic interests over law and constitution, as theorized by JP Morgan in 2013, puts at risk the legal principle of the tripartition of power, which has been in force for three centuries in liberal democracies, as admonished by Montesquieu. However, you, allergic to democratic principles, used as it is to be obeyed silently with your eyebrow raised [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] , transformed the Executive into the Third Chamber, humiliating Parliament with the trusted vote record (55, over three per month). She, after having arranged the sale to foreigners of essential public services, nullifying the referendum on public water, by ministerial decree of February 2022 has arranged the contest of the flag company ITA Airways, and then give 21,3 billion euros to Benetton as prize for the tragedy of the Morandi bridge [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] , proving once again faithful executor of international finance. Following President Biden, he helped weaken Europe, putting the knot behind the citizens' necks with sanctions; he strengthened the US, forcing us to pay their most polluting gas at a double price; he was a Caporetto for the obedient European soldiers of NATO, notorious exporters of democracy in the world with bombs, with the fact that he had first called Erdogan a dictator, except then go arm in arms on the Kurdish people. [[Applause]] You are painted with the Savior of the Homeland, but with his government action he has favored elite and strong powers, to the detriment of the people and the last, increasing poverty, misery and despair. In conclusion, Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, unlike the priests of one thought, who are begging you to remain, despite the great damage and disaster caused by the rights and interest of the Italian people, with due respect and without acrimony, I invite you to keep your promise and confirm your resignation. Citizens and Italian families, strangled and strangled by sanctions and its arbitrary economic action, contrary to what you have just said in this House, will be grateful to you. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u30	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the day we are going to live today and the decisions we are going to take could finally turn this country into a turning point. I am sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council has now absent himself, but I am addressing his ministers, and I am addressing the Government. I make a reflection, Brothers of Italy makes a reflection after listening to the words of the President of the Council, a very clear reflection. The President made a clear contradiction: on the one hand, he reiterated that this was a government that was once called national unity; on the other hand, he confirmed in fact - and I will prove it - that this is a government that is direct and determined by the Democratic Party. Why do I say that, ladies and gentlemen? I say this because the President-in-Office of the Council has clearly struck the so-called centre-right of government: he has referred to issues such as the land register, the Bolkestein directive, taxi drivers, talking about it in an irritated, grieved way; he has ignored the sentiments that the centre-right part of the government has brought in these months. On the other hand, the President of the Council has made no reference to the divisive elements in his government that have been bullied by the Democratic Party in recent weeks. I have not heard a word, Mr Draghi, about the legalization of drugs, about ius scholae. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I didn't hear a word, and maybe these weren't divisive themes? And then a government of national unity, as we have called it, certainly cannot be based on a party that is carried in the palm of hands and on some political force, which, moreover, is majority, which instead is almost ridiculed in its own behavior and in its own demands. One thing is clear, President Draghi: you have made a field choice; perhaps, I don't know, you are preparing to go on the field with the Democratic Party, but at least we will be happy to discuss with you on the issues of economic freedoms, meritocracy, ethics, Christian values that inspire us. We will be happy to deal with you and with the arguments of the left, but at least we will have clarity, at least the Italians, Mr President, will say which side they want to be on. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that you must stay because the Italians are asking you: it is very serious what you said, Mr President, because in democracy it is not the appeals of someone who counts, but as Giorgia Meloni said it is the vote of the Italians that must be respected, not the appeals of some area. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And as for the mayors, I want to say thanks to that clear majority of mayors (over 6,000) who have not signed any appeal, because they have respected their citizens. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] A mayor represents all citizens, even that majority of the country strongly opposed to such a government. So what are the Italians, Ministers and President-in-Office of the Council, who are asking you to remain in the government? Certainly not the majority, as is certainly not the majority of Italian mayors. I want to make some other considerations. President, let's talk about responsibility. For a few days we have read the newspapers, the whole so-called regime press, with the big newspapers, the televisions, the news, the opinionists with the Rolex on the wrist who come to talk to us about responsibility; but what responsibility? I also address President Casini with affection and friendship: what responsibility? Brothers of Italy tell you what responsibility is. I remind the mainstream that if we decide to go to the vote we have a month of election campaign because in August the Chambers are closed. So we're gonna have a month of campaigning while you guys prefer to do nine months of campaigning. You would like, for your "responsibility" to leave Italy in the election campaign for nine months, in which the Democratic Party will talk about ius scholae, ius solo and the legalization of drugs, the center-right will instead say its thesis - mocked, as it has mocked it just today, President - and Italy will remain blocked and firm. Or, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you should clarify that a little better. Today he made a list of emergencies: he spoke about the problems of the country, that we all know and that above all, believe me, know the Italians, pensioners who do not arrive at the end of the month, those who see the bills doubled, the workers of those companies that, thanks to the mess you made on the superbonus, are home without salary. There are 60,000 businesses that are failing; at the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) there are 170 crisis tables and the only ones solved I think are the Venetian ones, solved by our Councillor Donazzan, thanks to the commitment of those who really believe in work and politics. So, Mr President, either you think you can solve all these problems in September, having failed to resolve them in a year and a half of government, or perhaps a government elected by Italians and citizens should solve them. Or perhaps some of you - I happen to address the Democratic Party - believe that a government elected by citizens is not entitled to resolve the emergencies of the country? Do you think that, having on September 26 a government finally expressed by the majority of Italians, it is not legitimate to solve the problems? Perhaps you want the Italians to believe that the Government, even in that month in which it would not be in full power, could not carry out the activities of ordinary administration, that is, to issue the decrees that also serve for the PNRR? You know very well that you can work until the new government is installed. Then read the Constitution, since you mentioned it so much, work, but give the word to the Italians, because from early October we will finally have a Parliament expressing the will of the people and a Government finally expressing a cohesive parliamentary majority. The majority will be center-right: we are confirmed by all this ardour, all this assault that is coming from the consolidated powers, those powers that for years have not won the elections, but that for years badly administer the country for the Italians and well administer it for themselves. Here the comparison is between the real responsible, that it is us, between those who really want the good of the country, and those who instead want the good of their armchairs and who maybe want to arrive in May to make a few hundred nominations of state. This is the discrepancy and Italians know it: they are not fooled by the empty words that are said. We are proud to be responsible, because for us the responsibility is declined by giving the floor to the citizens and the Italians: they and they alone - I am going to conclude, Mr President - will decide who will have to sit in the scans and ministries in which you now sit, in my opinion not representing the country. Long live Italy! [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u32	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u33	Mr President, I have four minutes, but I should have 40 minutes to say everything I want. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you justify the request for full powers with the undoubted fact that you were not elected by the Italians. But I update it: our Constitution provides for it. Count was the last President of the Council not elected before you, but we have a long list: Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, Lamberto Dini, Giuliano Amato, Mario Monti, Matteo Renzi and Draghi Mario. That is not why full powers have been invoked, not explicitly at least. You speak of speed of action, of timeliness, but we read only lack of parliamentary dialectic and contempt for opposition. You complain about distinctions and divisions, we complain about your stubborn denial of any parliamentary dialectics, as if you were a CEO in a financial company. Expressing extreme contempt for constitutional institutions and lack of sense of state, you went to the President of the Republic resigning after pocketing two trusts from the two Houses in two days. Then he tells us that he is here because he answers the Italians, who ask her to stay, thanks to the support of 2,000 mayors, 2,000 out of 7,904. It cites the need for urgent reforms that are inflicting on us at an unprecedented speed, picking up parliamentary democracy. He rightly denounces the very serious economic and social crisis caused by your bad choices in foreign policy, while in Trieste other companies are delocalising. Between Friday and Thursday there will be big demonstrations on this, other workers will end miserably unemployed, but you still call for flexibility of the outgoing work, while our law on relocations has stopped since October. There will be 500,000 new unemployed in Campania by the end of the year, Minister for Foreign Affairs; yet the President reassures us that we will have differentiated autonomy, of which we are unfortunately familiar with the evil design under discussion. He presents us with an energy plan that offends the intelligence of Italians. Algeria's gas, look at it, largely comes from Russia and falls into the same pockets, however, at our cost; as for regasifiers and shale gas, I understand that not everyone here knows the process, but comes from the USA and at very high cost in economic and environmental terms on the climate. Nuclear power plants due to climate change are also about to close in France. It speaks of freedom and democracy and waves Europe's values as it shakes the hand of Orban, to whom Europe leaves free the Kurds. Mr President, rather than within NATO, we are a strategic NATO base for the United States, an American colony, and you ask this colony for absolute powers and challenge Parliament to bend. He says it is the Italians who ask him, while he reiterates the repression of parliamentary dissent and in the streets. We ask you: what have the crowded streets asked of you against the war, against weapons and against NATO? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u34	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u35	Mr President, the Democratic Party assumes the historic importance of this debate. It is not the usual debate we are used to, it is not the usual passage, but it is a real watershed between responsibility and irresponsibility. We believe, in the interest of the country, that the Draghi government must continue its action. We are encouraged by the very strong drive from so many different sectors, from the social partners, from the world of work and from the European Union. This allows us to say, in addition to the fact that they are not trivializations, as someone has said these days, to be in full harmony with this part of the country that asks the Government Dragons to continue its action. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Nobody remembers it: it is a full-bodied support, quantitatively and qualitatively, from the country. President Draghi said and repeated that the confidence pact at the base of government action has failed. We think, in the light of what is happening in the country, that the country itself asks to renew that pact of trust towards Italians, towards those who have confidence in it and have appreciated everything we have done. You have recognised this, saying that it is also Parliament's merit that we have achieved. It seems obvious that a MP from the Democratic Party is going in this direction. In fact, there is a strong conviction, which I hope will be able to express, absolutely not conditioned by electoral interests or other banality that we have heard these days. As for the geopolitical position, therefore the international credibility of our country, the Atlantic Alliance is facing one of the most delicate situations since the Second World War. There are forces that question our model of development and our democracies. The contagion of our democracy is opposed and attacked with missiles and weapons. I understand the difficulty of painful choices, such as those we have taken, but they have allowed us to be on the right side of history, and it is not indifferent in everything that is happening. That international credibility has done so - as the President of the Council has acknowledged - that Italy has played a leading role in the processes of the G7 and the European Union, and will have more in the coming months and in the coming years thanks to these fundamental steps. The President of the Council sat with Scholz and Macron, while usually Germany and France lead the trials in the European Union. This is a real pride for our country [[Applause from the PD Group]] : to be in those places and forcefully to decide the geopolitical position not only of Italy, but of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. I do not miss the national unity, which has been and is an absolute value. Normally in the face of difficulties you are together, you hold hands, you deal with problems as much as possible together. Here, I think that something like this has happened in the Italian social fabric, starting with the pandemic, and I think that this strong sense of national unity has contributed to the action of this Government of national unity, this Parliament and the leadership of President Draghi. The difficulties are normal, especially in difficult times, but here we have shown that we can put aside many interests of part to do the good of the country. The things we've created are unrepeatable conditions, and we all know that. The republican spirit to which President Draghi referred, for the national unity I am talking about, has never been decisive before. And the best reforms are made when there is a strong union between Parliament, the Government and the country, as at this time. What about - I start to conclude - the economic and financial reliability of our country? Would we have been in the same condition with other governments? Would we have sat in the same fora at that level and with that leading role with other governments? Would we have gotten that big favor of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, with that crisp that has served and is serving for us to raise the country in this period of crisis? I don't think so. I will conclude with an answer. To the question of President Draghi if we are willing to rebuild this pact, for the things I have said (international credibility, financial and economic reliability and national unity), our response can only be convincingly a yes. Mr President, go ahead, we find the conditions, everyone sets aside their legitimate aspirations, but let us ensure that Italy can continue on these three canons and on these three strategic pillars that make clear the national spirit, the national unity and the pride that we are experiencing at this stage. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, today the citizens impose on us a particular assumption of responsibility, which concerns each individual Member of Parliament, because the character of this period is that of urgency and emergency, which has characterized a little 'all this troubled legislature, a little' because of the pandemic, a little 'for the characteristics of the current electoral law, that has determined the life of the different Governments that have succeeded in these four years, each with its history and its tragedies, but all however necessary to the present circumstances. The pandemic has transformed us all deeply and intimately, but above all it has changed international scenarios, with the inevitable consequences also on internal politics. In that situation, the intention to make common sense prevail and to choose profit for citizens has never been easy and the measures taken in unsuspecting times have paved the way for the catastrophic effects that have fortunately been averted. I am referring to the income of citizenship, which Mr Draghi rightly says must be improved and that we must improve. Citizenship income has enabled thousands of our citizens to support themselves, also guaranteeing a certain level of GDP. This is also a not insignificant figure, if assessed from a macro-economic point of view. To all this, the Ukrainian crisis has also been added, which has changed our daily habits and forced us to reflect on our deepest and most identity values, such as those of freedom and security. This crisis at the gates of Europe has also had devastating economic effects for our national economy and for the well-being of our citizens. Well, even today we have the responsibility to put before the sacred national good, namely that of the Italians, to provide for the careful use of the PNRR, which provides us a unique opportunity for our economic transition and to provide for the budget law in the coming autumn, but even more so not to offer the side to the aggression of the financial markets and to curb the spread and inflation that erodes the redditual capacity of our citizens. President Draghi, in thanking you I hope that this experience of government can continue until its natural end, in order to implement measures and measures necessary to meet the needs of the moment to protect citizens, who spontaneously invite you to continue. It is true that this short parliamentary term has a very short time, which therefore increases its preciousness, but there are many things that can still be done for the common interest. Thank you, President. Together for the future is with the citizens and with you. [[Applause from the Ipf-CD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u38	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u39	President Draghi, all of us in the CAL Parliamentary Group are a Group because in February 2021 we did not give confidence to you as President of the Council of Ministers and to your entire Executive, supported by a so-called enlarged majority, which resurrected political forces that the Italians, with the vote, had made irrelevant in the political context of the Nation during the elections of 2018. This government that you have captained, this anomalous and devastating majority in which all political identities and party connotations have been dissolved and liquefied, together with every democratic principle - and this is very serious - has demonstrated precisely in the last aspects and events, which are now before everyone at both national and international level, all its political inadequacy, that healthy and useful policy that should act and act at the service of the nation and its citizens. We have had a number of testimonies that this majority remains alone and exclusively to hold the seats and not because we work for the common good, for social justice, for economic recovery and for the good of the nation and of the citizens. Everything said is evident and in the eyes of all. Everything that has been done by this Government in the last year and a half has produced nothing but destruction of all the achievements achieved in recent decades in various sectors: in the environment, in school, in culture and - alas - in justice. We have seen accelerated reforms on the pretext that Europe was asking, but then rejected by Europe itself. As has been the case with the so-called Cartabia reforms, which Europe has criticised because they put at risk - I stress: they put at risk - the trials for corruption and the independence of judges. Even those small measures which have struggled to be included in the purely governmental measures (since Parliament has been deported from confidence) are not passed on to the recipients. It is an example of this, in these days, that measure U35 (a guarantee for small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture and fisheries financed 100% by ISMEA), which the banks (those banks, President Draghi, whom you know well) do not want to give with the most disparate excuses, leaving businesses and families in total despair and on their knees because of those speculations (which you, President Draghi, know as well) in place on the price of both diesel and raw materials. The policies that you and your Executive will continue to pursue are and will be aimed at destroying small and medium-sized enterprises; for you probably dry branches because you have never helped them, as you said in your speech earlier, but that have been placed in conditions incompatible with the survival of them and their families, who in everyday life struggle to put together lunch with dinner. It is those policies that will continue to widen the meshes for environmental devastation, in the name of that ecological transition that allows to cover land called for the production of food with solar panels or - worse still - to pollute them with the spread on them of potentially polluting substances (i.e. digestate) without analysis or controls. Finally, but not least, I am referring to policies that will continue to fuel the conflict between Russia and Ukraine by sending weapons. President Draghi, do a real democratic act here today, one of the rare ones in your journey as President of the Council. Reconfirm his resignation and let the Italian people return to the polls to be able to choose from whom to be ruled. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u40	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u41	Mr President Draghi, representatives of the Government and - it is above all you who I am addressing today - my fellow senators, it is time for responsibility. We are all called to make the country's interest prevail and not partisan interests. Hundreds of thousands of civil society representatives have asked us these days to make sure that President Draghi remains in his place. This is the request of the more than 100,000 citizens who have signed our petition and it is the question that comes from the many who have come to the square in Rome, Milan, Genoa and Florence. We are asked by representatives of Catholic Action, ACLI, Libera, Legambiente and many other associations, as well as entrepreneurs and the world of culture and university. I would also like to recall those 2,000 mayors who, across the board, have called for this Commission to continue its mandate. We are also very well reminded of this by ordinary people, those citizens who have created the civil miracle to which the President referred and who are struggling with everyday difficulties: the dear gasoline, the price race, the increasingly heavy bills and then the Covid, which continues to make people sick and reap victims. For two and a half years now, more and more families and businesses have got water in their throats because of the continuing emergency. That is why we cannot let Italy stumble and let us not allow ourselves to deprive the country of that authoritative guide that everyone envies us and that for a year and a half has been working well. On the contrary: it is time to stop blackmailing, high there, whining distinguish. We are called to take care of the needs of the real country. The Italy of Mario Draghi, that is our Italy, is an Italy that has raised its head, that has recovered prestige and credibility at an international level, to the point of being taken as a model in Europe for the vaccination campaign. This is for a whole series of choices: from taxes on the extra-trajective to measures in favour of economic recovery, that recovery that had allowed us to start running again. With the presidency Draghi Italy has been able to predict a PNRR capable of investing the European resources of the recovery fund to the best. It is Italy itself that has not hesitated to raise its voice for peace, against Russia and against Ukraine's illegitimate aggression. It is Italy that first suggested joint European solutions against the rise in the cost of energy and raw materials and that only yesterday the other in Algeria, without hesitation despite a possible crisis, managed to bring home strategic agreements, which have an extraordinary value, not only for Italy but for Europe as a whole. In short, the one led by Mario Draghi is a country that is held in strong consideration also at international level; it is a country that indicates objectives, values, solutions; a country that can point the way to us and to Europe. That is why right now, in such a complex phase, when Italy, thanks to Draghi's leadership, effectively leading the Europe of rights and freedoms, cannot bring the country into a crisis of government. Italians and Italians recognize and appreciate the seriousness and reliability of this Executive. Among other things, they are well aware that if there were to be a crisis, some 300 NRP implementing rules would not see the light: therefore, the investments currently being implemented could not be terminated and the next instalment of European funds would go up in smoke. As should be lost several reforms that are now in the final straight line: tax reform, competition reform and then many processes that are being implemented, such as the energy transition, the digitisation of public administration, the unblocking of infrastructure yards. All projects that would be abruptly interrupted, with the risk of no longer being carried out for years. I mean, the country needs everything but a government crisis. That is why we are grateful to you, President Draghi, for the generosity with which you are making yourself available to continue your assignment; and that is why we are even more proud today to belong to that political force that created the premises in January last year so that you could lead the country. We in Italy Viva are convinced that today there is even more need for her and her credibility. Mr Draghi, know that you can count on our full support. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u43	Mr President, President Draghi, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it seems almost paradoxical that the debate that is taking place today in this House, at such a difficult and delicate time in our republican history, with a pandemic that is absorbed, but not completely eradicated, with a war on our borders, involving our country in a global way and which risks creating serious and lasting fractures and repercussions of our own social structure. Today we are here to discuss the Italian Parliament's desire to strongly reaffirm its confidence as our President of the Council and the Government you have chaired. Our country is suffering a real shock, from which with stubbornness and commitment it is trying to get out. Our fellow citizens do not want words, discussions, confrontations, polemics that end up in themselves, obnoxious positions and dancers or, worse still, political blackmail. On the contrary, they call for concrete answers to the real and daily problems and to the difficulties with which they live and live together every day. We cannot risk the very estate of our country simply for electoral calculations or under the pressure of polls. The priorities, Mr President, are only Italy and Italian citizens. We need to be loyal and consistent, we need the compactness and availability of all political forces. A Government of national unity, born and built to deal with this global emergency, cannot be lightly abandoned without assessing the very serious effects for our country that this unilateral decision can entail. I am not here to remember all the devastating and irrecoverable effects that a crisis of government in the dark can entail, whose deleterious consequences would fall on all Italians. I just want to point out some of these pressing issues that I consider most important and significant: the failure to achieve the objectives of the PNRR, the absolute certainty of the impossibility to approve the budget law and therefore the consequent necessity of the provisional exercise, the extreme difficulty to make effective measures, able to counter the global energy crisis, the dear bills, the increase of the cost of fuels and, factor not to be underestimated, the possibility of creating new gas agreements, like the last one concluded with Algeria just these days. These agreements allow and will allow our country to have an ever greater independence from Russian gas. Finally, I would like to mention an absolutely non-secondary consequence, Mr President, the weakening of Italy's position at international tables and its leading role in the European assembly. There is no need for populism or sovereignism. Mr President, citizens want certainty and a government with full powers, not subjected to continuous blackmail and pickings that weaken it, a government capable of responding to the emergency and planning the global recovery of our country. Let us move forward with courage, a sense of responsibility, trust and consistency. Mr. President Draghi, Together for the Future there is and will be at your side for Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the Ipf-CD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u44	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u45	Mr President, today it is closed, but perhaps not, the parenthesis of a government that has not been careful to pursue an international agenda contrary to any logic, to any common sense, to any public interest, understood as the interest of the community, passing through measures of unprecedented gravity since the times of fascism. We have seen, under the cover of a majority that is largely called progressive, to carry out measures that have taken away from citizens the possibility of moving freely within their country, have taken away from workers the possibility of working, have deprived the livelihood millions of families, in order to assert a society of control based on fear. We have seen some categories of workers being forced to inoculate experimental drugs that have caused tens of thousands of deaths across Europe and millions of adverse events. We had never seen a government use the Forces of Order to strike dissent, to pay for the builders of lies by selling them as fact-checkers to censor the truth. Since the Draghi government was established, we have forgotten to live in a democracy, we are living in a totalitarian state that imposes its false narration on millions of citizens, suppressing dissent with violence and intimidation. But the thing that really hurts is that as long as these very serious measures have been carried out, the majority have been compact in maintaining such a criminal architecture, even when it came to sending weapons to Ukraine, in violation of Article 11 of the Constitution, abandoning the strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, abandoning the energy resources from which our companies are dependent and putting at risk the economic and democratic survival of our country. Even then the majority did not rebel. Suddenly, finally, on the horizon of the electoral deadline, there was an awakening in defense of the 5 Star brand. About EUR 5 billion have been thrown into doses of products that have proved ineffective and whose expiry dates are renewed automatically, the so-called anti-Covid-19 vaccines. A science bent on financial speculation, which denies itself, becomes the mantra on which a permanent emergency is organized, aimed at social control. Compared to the sacredness of human life, this majority has not split. Several warmongering leaders, who have all the more supported a policy similar to that of this Government, are losing ground within their countries and, in one way or another, are being depowered or set aside. The non-return line of the 2020-2030 agenda is failing, not to mention that it has already failed. How, in fact, can we think of going on in excess of a conflict that cannot see us as winners, already lost by Ukraine, if not at the price of transforming it into a devastating nuclear conflict for Europe and the world? What are you gonna do about that? Will you bow to the boss and say that Europe (i.e. NATO) is asking us to do so? Today it is a sense of responsibility to send this government home, especially to make the criminal agenda of which this government is the spokesperson fail. So let us welcome the fact that the 5 Stars created this crisis with last week's non-vote. But now it is necessary to be consequential and complete the work: to send Dragons home and withdraw the Ministers, to remove the system covers to those who have applied unconstitutional norms detrimental to the dignity of people. This is the epilogue the country expects of you. Set up the homeless, two thousand mayors out of eight thousand, Presidents of the Region in favor of Draghi with ridiculous commendationes, when you have not looked after the begging of the citizens that you have trampled so far, is the ridiculous performance of a mask that has now fallen. All the Italian people, kept away from the Palaces by Forces of the Order in order of war, want Draghi to close this governmental experience, even at the cost of losing the famous money of the PNRR, which will never bring refreshment to the real economy, but will constitute yet another round for the multinationals, who have programmed, thanks to the joint advice of McKinsey, the investments previewed by the measures of this Plan. Italians have now understood that Draghi wants to reduce Italy as Greece reduced in 2015. The objective set out in Agenda 2020-2030 is to increase private debt, social control, health expenditure in the hands of the Big Pharma, to alleviate social security treatment through the physical elimination of fragile and elderly people, subjected to continuous experimental vaccinations every three to four months. What this majority has stained in support of Draghi is aberrant. Now only one thing can be done to atone: to close permanently. [[UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u46	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u47	Mr President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, many of President Draghi's passages - I must say frankly - concern us very much and make us reflect on our near future. When you say "me" the Italians asked, perhaps you forget that in democracy the popular will is expressed only by the vote, not on the platforms, as the triggers used to us, and not even by the calls organized by the Democratic Party. I must tell you that even those who preceded me, like Senator Casini, from whom we are certainly divided many positions, reminded you of the centrality of Parliament. But when, Mr President, you bring up the two thousand mayors (I would like to remind you that they are a little less), you forget that in Italy there are eight thousand mayors. And what about the other 6,000 mayors who didn't sign the organized appeal? For us, Mr President-in-Office, the mayors are the representatives of the institutions, not the masters of the institutions. It's a fundamental difference. I must also say that I have thought about your story, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: a story of great commitment and certainty, the story of a man with a straight back, who has always tried to do the interests of Italians. I therefore ask you if you can explain to me in your reply what has changed in these six days, since you said a week ago that you were leaving because there were no longer any conditions for this Government to work. What has changed these six days? We have not seen any change. Since you are a man who does things if you think you can do it, because I do not think you need that chair to occupy your time, I have the doubt that perhaps you too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are not free to choose what you must and want to do. If you answer in your reply, I'll thank you. In one passage you said that there were unauthorized protests and I believe that you were referring to those for the Bolkestein directive and - I add - the protests of taxi drivers and beachmen. I therefore ask you to explain to me whether the landings are authorized and if so who authorizes them in our country. How come, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you did not say a word about the easy citizenship that the Democratic Party wants, on free drugs, that has been talked about so much these days? Perhaps you are afraid of not liking the Democratic Party, your true supporter. In my opinion three clues make a test and today you gave us all three of these clues: the first when yesterday morning you first met the secretary of the Democratic Party Letta; the second, as I told you just now, when no flag of the PD was brought up to not hit him; the third clue is his speech that was so wide in the program - perhaps I misunderstand - that I think I am the program for the next legislature. Perhaps, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you imagine training such as the so-called Ursula coalition in order to remain President of the Council, but I would also ask you to be clear on this in your reply, because six months seem to me to be a few months in order to achieve such a detailed programme. There is also a very clear point to which no one can unequivocally have understood something different. Today in your speech you said: these are my conditions, take or leave. If you want me to be the President of the Council, you parties don't count anything. I do what I want and move on. These are the conditions. These are full powers; those full powers on which the Left has had an infinite debate, while today we find ourselves with a President-in-Office of the Council who in fact calls for full powers. Starting at the conclusion, we of Brothers of Italy, as everyone knows, ask for the vote and we do not ask for it today, but we did it even when we were at 4%. We do not just ask today how someone wants to make people believe because polls are for the benefit of our political movement; we have always asked for this, because we do not like the chaos, nor the alchemies of the palace; we do not like it when the choice is taken away from the Italians. We want to vote immediately because, perhaps unlike you, we have a certainty, a vision, a program. We believe that today we would need a strong government, with a cohesive majority, with a program made together, because we must face the near future without shocks, because we know the dramatic issues and the serious problems that afflict the Italians. I'll give you some unsolicited advice, Mr. President. We expect - it would be good and fair - that, should you wish to continue this new political life, it is you, Mr President, who are now asking for the vote. Democracy - this is clear to all - can only be legitimized by the vote of the Italians; there is no other method in democracies. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u48	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u49	Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, there is no doubt that Parliament and the Government are experiencing - and the Italians accordingly - an unusual crisis, the result of a decidedly foolish choice. We were explained, voting and not voting on the decree-law aid, that the cause would be the thermo-valuer of the Capital: comment by widening the arms and without expressing opinions. On the contrary, it seems to me that the beginning of the problem is unconditional support for Ukraine, as President Draghi mentioned earlier, on the Russian attack, always having in front of surveys that constantly carried the less sign. I am not at all shocked, Madam President, if a party that has a strong presence in the government asks the President-in-Office of the Council to update the agenda; I find it perfectly normal, I would say even trivial. Rather, what is indignant is the distance between the way and the merit. If you claim that you want to defend the Italians, then you vote in favour of the decree-law and do not leave the Chamber; if you leave the Chamber and do not vote for the trust, then withdraw your ministers. A reading of the Constitution that would have given an old teacher of mine, Professor Cheli, and if you had supported this thesis, you can rest assured that he would not throw the booklet at you from the window of the third floor of Cesare Alfieri. But, above all, if you have led the government for half of the legislature, you have made international agreements, you have argued in front of the Italians that the state of emergency is a state that continues, then you cannot change clothes from morning to evening and suddenly turn into Robespierre, because you lose the remaining credibility. I have written a part of my speech, Mr President, after listening to your report. You presented today a programme, which we can define at the end of the legislature, which revolves around measures to protect the most fragile society; you spoke of minimum wages, you spoke of strong tax deductions for workers' wages, you spoke of renewal of existing contracts. It is a programme on which Parliament is asked - as I understand it - fully understood to share; indeed, better, it is calling for a new pact of confidence and for this reason it is addressing the whole House. I try to sum up using an old language, and therefore unusual: not a bathing government, but an Executive that completes its work, integrating the programme launched in this Chamber also a year and a half ago with measures to deal with and govern the new emergencies. The question that we must ask ourselves and which must be put to the whole House, Mr President, is whether the emergency is over or not. In fact, if we consider the emergency over, then the issue of the bills raining on the table of Italian families, the war against Ukraine, inflation, etc. etc., then, it is politically right - incorrect - to ask for the use of early elections. But if the emergency continues, as no one has denied, inside and outside the Chamber, then the question is whether or not we are ready to sign up to the programme that President Draghi presented this morning. We are ready to subscribe to it and to do so in a convincing and convincing way. Mr President, we are not indulged in a bonapartism of return. We are still those who believe, like you, that the Constitution is still a boulder around which we must reason, but on which we must constantly work. Article 1 reads as follows: Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. Article 94 states: "The Government must have the confidence of the two chambers." That is exactly what we are about to do in this House: to vote for trust. (Following NENCINI). One last point, Mr President, and I have concluded. It has been said - I heard it just now from my colleague, Senator Garnero Santanchè - that Parliament is sovereign and its centrality must be maintained. I fully agree, however, with the two, one: I read Mr Meloni a moment ago saying that Parliament is delegitimized and listened to by its Group that Parliament is perfectly entitled to debate and vote on trust. In conclusion, Mr President, I think that, at a time of serious emergency, all political forces should be called without limits to the sense of responsibility. I would have many quotations to make, even very ancient, from Turati to Berlinguer, but I do the most atypical one, inviting to behave like the prince of the anti-party, Marco Pannella, in 1992, in front of the murders of Falcone and Borsellino. He withdrew the oars by boat, proposed the solution for the Presidency of the Republic and associated himself with a logic of responsibility, which that vote determined, with that election. I think this should be the main way forward: exactly what some parties have done in their speeches, especially in this part of the House. I hope, however, that this part will become the whole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u50	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today, after five days of psychological thrillers, the orchestra of "appellism," as it has been defined, has finally arrived the day that should clarify Italy's political destiny. The first part of your communications, Mr President, has been straightforward, because you have finally explained the reasons for your resignation, for a choice that you have called distressed and due. He also said - and I quote this, because it is important - that a President who did not appear to the Italians needs a strong majority: exactly what you, Mr President, do not have. So we can only agree and that is why the Brothers of Italy Group, not from today, but from the beginning of this tortured legislature, which has already seen three governments - with today I would say three and a half governments - not an expression of a popular mandate, asks to return to the polls. We have been asking for this since the beginning of this parliamentary term, in order to have a strong political and popular mandate from the Italians and even more so today, Mr President, because you have a majority which is weaker and more divided than a week ago when you decided to resign. Today, in this House, to this contradictory majority of itss, which I would call its main weakness, it has asked - I quote again - to reconstruct from the outset. It doesn't show which glue you believe, if you really believe it, that you can rebuild your government from scratch. In fact, in the second and third parts of your communications, you have had - you give me the expression - a bad word for everyone, that is, a direct stocking to every force of the present government. Of course, there are also children and stepchildren there, because he has "mened" more the League and the Movimento 5 Stars, while he has pampered the PD. That's not new. Of course you, Mr President, with your speech and your communications, have taken a few pebbles off your shoes, but in this way you have also delegitimized your current Executive. When you listed - we listened carefully - the key points of the government programme in order to rebuild what you called "pact" - what you missed - you spoke about the deadlines of the PNRR, tax reform, social agenda, support for Ukraine and more. You have listed a whole series of points which are not those which your present majority has put before you these days, and you have also asked this House essentially for full powers. You also know that with regard to some of the points of your government programme, cross vetoes will soon arrive: I think for example of the fourth decree of support for Ukraine (you know what I mean), I think of the reform of the land register that the League does not share and we could continue. You, Mr President, more than a government program with a vision to pull a few months seemed to have wanted to draw an electoral program with which you could come to the elections and submit to the Italians' judgment. Then I come to another very important point, because you have argued and stressed that you have been very impressed by a kind of epidemic induced by appeals to remain that has spread over the last three days. He mentioned them, thanked them, speaking precisely of civil society and of undeserved support that would give them associations, schools, universities, the world of the economy, the world of journalism, mayors. I also remember that these are 2,000 mayors out of 8,000 and I do not think I have read an appeal from the regional Governors, or perhaps I have distracted myself. He concluded by saying, in some way delegitimizing Parliament itself, that you remain because the Italians ask you to do so. Then why don't we ask the Italians? Why don't you ask the Italians what they think? Or maybe the political thermometer polls are worth it, which don't say exactly what you came to tell us. But ask the Italians, ask the Italians how they do it in democratic systems: they are called elections and they are not exactly an apocalypse. It is not a question of letters, but it is a way of expressing consensus, political judgment and liking, because - it is worth remembering at this point - sovereignty belongs to the people, who express themselves by voting and elections. She remains, therefore, because the Italians would ask her, but she does not ask the Italians: it is strange. Then of course it remains - I forgot - because Europe asks it, like everything else, of course, Europe itself, but when you vote in other countries (because you vote in other countries, even before the deadline, if it is necessary) does not allow interference before the vote. The vote is analyzed the next day; in the case of Italy we are told who should be running, whether you should vote or not to vote. In short, Europe wants to tell us everything and we - that is you - also thank you for these advices. So, Mr President, that Europe that asks you to remain is the same Europe that does not want to share, for example, our request to put a roof at the price of gas. So when we say 'Europe' we say a lot of other things, but we move on. An intelligent journalist and fine political analyst like Antonio Padellaro, therefore above all suspicion, in a recent interview with Libero, said that in the success of Giorgia Meloni and Fratelli d'Italia (electoral success among other things recorded in the various rounds that have been there since 2018 and estimated in the polls that would make Brothers of Italy the first party) he reads the symbol of the ransom of parliamentary democracy, a revolt against the hypothesis of a Draghi-a. I suggest you read this article. Do you not think, therefore, that in addition to the letters of support Italy is different and it is also another? Well, we believe it because we know it and we meet it every day that Italy there. The problem is that that Italy you have taken hostage, with your quarrels and your begas of the Palace and you insist on dragging a legislature only for logic of electoral survival and for some important state nominations. If in today's day, after all this, everything were to remain as it is, well then you joked, while you created a collective suggestion that the vote would trigger the Apocalypse and it is not so. So, Mr President, since - let us remember - there is always a government in office that can run the ordinary administration so there is no need to make psychological terrorism, let us also say that you want to prevent elections because you are afraid of the judgment of the people and the outcome of the elections. You don't understand how in a few months you could solve all the problems that the "Government of the Best" hasn't solved and dealt with in a year and a half. I should like to conclude, and I would also like to put it mildly, ladies and gentlemen. We've discovered an unsuspecting ironic vein in you, President Draghi. In the foreign press conference, you told a delightful joke about heart transplant, saying that it would be better to choose the heart of an 80-year-old banker than a young heart because that banker the heart never used it (great laughs from the press). She certainly knows the bankers, so maybe she didn't even joke; we don't know if it was irony or self-irony. Then allow me to make a joke, and that is what I shall conclude in this House now almost depopulated, despite the importance of the subject. Colleagues, I want to draw your attention: you will all remember that memorable movie by Scola, played by Alberto Sordi and Nino Manfredi, entitled: Will our heroes be able to find the mysteriously deceased friend in Africa? The film ends with the unforgettable: "Titì, nun lascià", you will all remember. Titino in the end what did he do? He jumped off the boat, did not return to Italy and responded to the call, because in the meantime Titino had become the sorcerer of that indigenous village. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, irony aside, Brothers of Italy expect a leap of pride from Mario Draghi, so his resignation confirmed, and not a Draghi bis that, if there is, will be even paler and weaker than that begun in February 2021. In short, the scenarios change, but the fateful and not lucky "whatever it takes" by Mario Draghi remains? It is a "at any cost" that, however, does not resemble - forgive me - neither courage nor a healthy obstinacy: it is very similar to the therapeutic aggression of all those political forces that are afraid to face the elections and that, in order to keep you as a guarantee of their positions of power, have blocked the way to the Quirinale yesterday and today want to block the path of the elections and the judgment of the Italian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in an ordinary legislature. Not only because this legislature has seen three different governmental formulas, but above all because it has been characterized by two jumps in the unknown that history has proposed to us: first the pandemic and then an incredible war that no one imagined. I repeat: this is not an ordinary situation. And, in this situation, Italy asked one of its most illustrious men to preside over a government of national unity; it did so in time, when the emergency was the exit from the pandemic, the reopening of the country and the resumption. The question we have to ask ourselves is: is that emergency over? Is it behind our backs? It seems to me, Mr President, that this emergency has expanded, because the three problems before us have not failed and, in addition, the war, inflation and the economic crisis have been added. Now to this one could also add a provisional exercise, which certainly is not a joke. In this sense, perhaps one can understand why there is concern and disbelief abroad and elsewhere about what is happening in our country: when there was only one emergency, a Government of national unity was created and when the emergency is extended this Government fails? Mr President, the problem is not a conflict between sovereignists and globalists, to which I have never personally believed, but if these categories really exist. Perhaps, in fact, it should be the sovereignists who raise the problem of our international reputation, because serious sovereigns care more about this than anything else. And allow me, Mr President, compared to the idea of a crisis in this context, the controversy over the so-called early elections seems even more paradoxical. Of course I am not referring to the friends of Brothers of Italy, who have always supported this thesis and who, therefore, clearly, at such a time, cannot abandon it. However, I would like everyone else to make an effort to remember. We have opened this parliamentary term without any of the proposals presented to the citizens being able to govern themselves, and that is why a government called the 'yellow-green' was created. An oxymoron. Yet, in order to avoid early elections, it has been done. This government went into crisis and created a yellow-red government, which until a week earlier seemed like a blasphemy, once again to avoid early elections. Today, when we are talking about early elections - let us be quite clear - we are no longer talking about them, because the fact that we have to go to the elections is quite obvious, the problem is whether we are going to go four months before or four months later, whether we are allowing Draghi to conclude his programme or we are going to go into an objectively difficult situation, which should concern first of all those who are applying to govern in the next parliamentary term. Because, Mr President, the rubble is badly regulated. If then these four months in less force us to the provisional exercise, condemn us to lose international credibility, bring us objectively some difficulties, it is not conceivable from a logical point of view that the forces that have supported this Government so far, and especially those that in this legislature, unlike us - because we have never wanted to have anything to do with the Movimento 5 Stars, I say it with respect, because we consider them adversaries -, with the Movimento 5 Stars have made marriages, engagements and fuitines, today they are unpunished in search of a recovered purity, just at the moment of the emergency and in which there is a concern for the country. [[Applause]] As Senator Casini said, then, the confrontation between dictatorships and democracies is an old theme. It is said that dictatorships, in times of emergency, are in advantage because they can compress time and make decisions faster. It is a theme dealt with by a great sovereignist, Charles de Gaulle, in a book entitled "La discorde chez l'ennemi", in which the General explained why he had converted to democracy: because democracy knows how to recognize different times, knows when a problem can be posed. Democracy, for example, knows when the problem of taxi drivers or the problem of bathing boats can be posed and when these problems have to give in to bigger national and international concerns. I believe that democracy is superior to totalitarianism and dictatorships, also because it knows when it must resort to men of state who do not come from politics. When this happens (it has happened to Britain, France and all the great democracies) it is necessary to be willing to pay a price, because democracy is able to make empirical and approximate choices by putting aside even its own particular sometimes. I say this to my colleagues in the League: I know very well that it is easier for us to vote for the trust of Mario Draghi because we find ourselves in his words, from the first to the last. I am fully aware that there is an effort to be made. However, if this effort has been made to become a national force, it cannot be abandoned at the decisive moment, frustrating everything. Politics, in fact, is a resource if it knows how to travel on the legs of men and knows how to recognize the value of men. There was a moment in our history when Italy would not have made itself without Cavour; there was a moment in our history when Italy would not have come out of the condition of inferiority of an unconditional surrender without De Gasperi. Today we need a man we've called to run the government to finish his work. We must do this for politics and for the latter to be seen not as a crap, as has happened in recent years, but as a resource that can be used primarily by those who have devoted their lives to politics and parties. I believe that this is an assumption of responsibility that applies to everyone and to you too, Mr President. You told us today: you went back because you were asked. But we are in a parliamentary democracy and everyone must assume their responsibilities in this Parliament; it is not possible to allow any veto power. As far as we are concerned, we are a force that represents the center of the center of the right. We have not been invited to the summits that the centre-right has held these days. I say this without any regret or claim. But we believe that today we must be with you and your Government (in which - we say it first and you know it well - we are not represented and we do not ask to be represented) because there are times when we must know how to make choices without if and without but. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of your trust and confidence in your Government. [[Applause from the Misto-IaC Group (I-C-EU-NdC (NC))]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u54	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u55	Mr President, we have appreciated the words of President Draghi and we believe that the work of you and the government that leads deserves the Italians' gratitude for the results of the last seventeen months. The President of the Council explained in a very clear and clear way the reasons that led him to resign. This government is born not from a political alliance, but from a republican pact to deal with pandemic, economic and social emergencies. It is a pact based on a common assumption of responsibility by different forces at an exceptional stage in the history of the country and an assumption of responsibility without erase the differences. In democracy, in fact, the differences are the hall of confrontation and politics lives on the dialectic between different visions, ideas and proposals, without canceling the differences, but asking different political forces for a shared commitment. The point is that that shared commitment has gradually weakened. Mr President, the Democratic Party has been working since the beginning of these days to recompose the majority of national unity, rebuild that confidence pact and restart this Government. We did so by interpreting and collecting an instance that comes from the vast majority of the country. As recalled by President Draghi and many of those who have spoken, in these days the appeals of economic forces, trade unions, the third sector and more than 2,000 mayors have multiplied. It is an unprecedented push from the bottom, which testifies, on the one hand, to the confidence that Italians have towards President Draghi and his Government and on the other the concern for a political crisis in a very delicate phase from the geopolitical, economic and social point of view. The request that comes from the country, the request that comes from those appeals is clear: avoid the crisis today; avoid the precipitation towards the early elections; continue the path of this Government. It weighs the context, undoubtedly, in those concerns: the war that has no end, the need to work for peace, the energy crisis and inflation, which put at risk the maintenance of the productive system and which aggravate the social inequalities, the tensions on the financial markets, for which the stability and the international credibility of a government are a key factor. And the scale of the choices that would be blocked by a government crisis weighs: the next aid decree, the implementation of the PNRR, the social pact to respond to the energy crisis and inflation. The Democratic Party has worked and works for a restart in a logic of continuity, with the republican spirit that seventeen months ago led almost all parties to give life to this Government and this majority of national unity. Mr President, we share the four points that President Draghi has made clear in this House. We share the content of a new pact of trust among the majority forces: the implementation of the reforms and investments of the Plan, to improve growth and to heal inequalities; the social agenda, which we particularly hold as a Democratic Party, for minimum wages, to cut taxes on labour, to renew expired employment contracts, to improve citizenship income, to respond, Mr President, to millions of families who risk having to choose between paying bills and spending carts in the autumn. [[Applause]] We share the energy strategy to free Italy from dependence on Russian gas, accelerating the ecological transition and unlocking the transfer of tax credits and energy efficiency bonuses, and we share the coordinates of foreign policy: Europe, the Atlantic Alliance, the defence of democracies against the aggression of authoritarian regimes, the commitment to peace in Ukraine. Mr President, in those points and on that agenda of government, any political force of the majority can be recognized. Any political force that has supported this Government in these seventeen months can claim its contribution and its priorities. We are ready, Mr President. The restart of this Government is not taken for granted, but it is possible if the political forces in this House, before the Italians and before the country, express the will to continue with the same constructive spirit and the same sense of responsibility that they have shown in these seventeen months and that the Italians continue to ask us. Restarting will be possible if, in political forces, awareness of what Italy is asking of politics and institutions prevails. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, my political formation is democratic Catholic culture. One of the cornerstones of this tradition is that political understanding is true in itself. It cannot be merely an external condition for the implementation of the programme. So Aldo Moro said in 1962 in Naples. In February 2021, the Draghi Government was born not on the basis of a political formula, but on the basis of a political understanding, which aims to get Italy out of the sands of the economic, social and health crisis that the pandemic has provoked. But is there anything more political than this? This government was created for the assumption of responsibility of almost all the forces present in Parliament. Responsibility as an architrave of the parliamentary form of the Government. And it is no coincidence that the news of the Dragon Government crisis was given by the world's leading media using the term responsibility. Responsible, from the Latin responder, who has its root in the verb that means to promise. As Father Francesco Occhetta says, there is an element that refers the politician to the promise made, to the word given, to the guarantee given. To the guarantee provided, this is where we have to return. The referral to the Chambers, chosen by President Mattarella, is not only constitutionally correct, but is also right. In an article published in the Constitutional Papers dated over time, but always current, President Giuliano Amato wrote that the strengthening of the powers of the President is typical of the transition and is linked to the peculiar conditions of Parliament without a political majority able to express a political orientation. However, we are now returning to parliamentary responsibility, to the responsibility of each and every one of us. There are decisive matches at stake for Italy, as has been mentioned several times: the implementation of the PNRR, social, fiscal and industrial policies, the fight against inflation (now 8%, never so high since 1986), environmental policies, drought, energy policies (the International Monetary Fund says that prolonged interruptions in gas supply can lead to a loss of GDP of up to 6%), Italy's role in stabilising the price-cap of oil and gas. There are decisive matches at stake for the European Union and the stability of the international order. Today the spread is 2.1%, at the beginning of the year it was 1.3%. Not to mention the fact that Italy had become the pivot of European and transatlantic alliances with the Draghi Government. The questioning of the Italian leadership of the anti-Putinian front results in an unexpected gift to Putin and Medvedev, whose aim is to destabilise the governments of the European Union more determined to combat the Russian aggression against Ukraine. These are just some of the reasons that convince us of the importance of the continuity of the action of President Draghi's Government and that convince us that the civil miracle, to which you referred this morning, cannot be interrupted by a choice of pavidity or opportunism on the part of any of us. Moro, in 1968, said, "We know that things have changed, they will no longer be the same. Does this mean that we are about to be overwhelmed by events? And then he kept going, of course not. We must govern, that is, choose, graduate, guarantee, ordain, measure action against the risks that are still present in domestic and international life. I sense the distance between this thought and the statement "today we exhaust them of ugly"; I apologize for my unlikely Romanesque, but the quotation demanded it. I don't despair, though. Winston Churchill in one of his memorable speeches said that it would be a great reform of politics if sense could be spread as easily and quickly as madness. Today we have the opportunity to make sense prevail over political madness. President Draghi, you asked us today whether we are ready to rebuild a new genuine and concrete trust pact. As for the Autonomous Group, the answer is yes, let us not burn this opportunity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u58	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this parliamentary term has been marked by two major crises, the pandemic one, which has lasted two years now, and the geopolitical one, with the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Both are putting to the test the economic and social hold of our country, which has been found unprepared more than our main European partners because of thirty years of delays caused by a political system that is not attentive, perhaps distracted, and unable to catch the changes taking place at world level and the changing needs of the citizens. All this has led to the need to rush to repair quickly so that the economic and social balances and the functioning of public health can withstand these powerful waves of impact that have hit our country without interruption. As a Parliament we have worked continuously to give support and refreshment to Italian citizens, with particular attention to the weak, the municipalities and businesses, which have been most severely affected by the crisis. We have also committed ourselves to strengthening the National Health System. Then, thanks to the PNRR, we could start the program to make Italy a more modern and evolved country. President Draghi, you arrived at the government of this country, on behalf of President Mattarella, to give a strong and concrete response to a political crisis that could have even compromised the pandemic containment plan and the implementation of the PNRR. President Mattarella invited all political parties to an act of responsibility, aimed at supporting a nascent Government of national unity led by her. Almost all political forces have accepted this request, giving rise to an enlarged majority. A few months ago, Parliament decided to address the same invitation to President Mattarella, at the end of his mandate, that is to remain in the role to give political stability to the country, at one of the most difficult stages for us after the Second World War, and to allow the continuation of his mandate, in order to carry on the established program and prepare Italy to contain and manage the imminent risk of the crisis that from there to a few months would have involved Russia and Ukraine in the war plan. A conflict in the heart of Europe that, in order to be better understood, must be framed in the broader political and commercial opposition that has been in place for some time between the Asian and Western blocs for the grabbing of energy and raw materials and that is causing serious consequences worldwide, both from the socio-humanist, as well as the food and energy point of view, also strongly affecting Italy. In this changing scenario, the role of Europe will be strategic and fundamental, with regard to which Italy represents a major axis. As well as the role of Italy in the NATO Alliance will be decisive. We are all aware of how important its foreign policy is for a country, which makes it a reliable point of reference for its partners. Only a strong Europe within a strong Western bloc can, with diplomacy, push Putin to sit down at the negotiating table to stop the invasion of Ukraine and find a peace solution. Italy can only play a decisive role in achieving peace if it is politically stable and reliable in international relations. The coming months and perhaps the coming years will be more and more challenging for our country and for many other nations. Inflation will increase, the economy will probably slow down, the spread could rise further, our policies of supplying raw materials and energy will have to be revised (for the gas we are already providing) and much more will have to be done. But, on everything, the execution of the PNRR will have to proceed without any interruption. The financial resources provided by the European Union are of vital importance to the fate of our country and not one euro will have to be wasted or lost. While we have to assess with due attention the extremely complex context in which we move, we must always keep in mind the needs, needs, difficulties and needs of Italian citizens, in order to be prepared to deal more than adequately with the effects of an imminent social and economic crisis. All this must be the cornerstone of a forward-looking national policy, capable of grasping and managing what is happening at international level, combining it with the needs of citizens. Woe to fall into the trap of political propaganda for electoral purposes: an irresponsible attitude, incomprehensible to citizens, that has just produced a further moment of crisis, dangerous for the country's keeping from a social and economic point of view. The invitation I address to everyone is to face this difficult moment with a great sense of maturity, focusing on solving the complex problems of the country, which require equally complex solutions, abstaining from sterile electoral campaigns based only on polls. My invitation to you, Mr Draghi, is to resume the political activities of the Government quickly and to continue working together with Parliament to create the conditions necessary to help our citizens to address and contain in the best possible way the future problems that await us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u60	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u61	Mr President, I have anticipated the intervention in such a way as to try to be clear, because the aim of the intervention of the League is above all to make clarity. Meanwhile we start from the reason that led President Draghi to resign, after the Movimento 5 Stars de facto decided not to vote for the trust on an important measure such as the decree-law aid of 14 July last. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is clear that it is easy to give responsibility only to the 5 Stars, who from a political point of view have highlighted the lack of a vote of confidence; however, if we want to be serious, we cannot think that the PD had nothing to do with all this, since the thermovaluer was wanted by Mayor Gualtieri and that the Democratic Party was not able to eliminate the wide field that it wanted to create. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Moreover, if we want to say it all, since they then try to accuse us of the center-right, surely the split of the minister Di Maio has favored the fact that Conte could distance himself from the government; therefore even those who managed the direction of that operation has a political responsibility relative to the situation in which our country is located at this moment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I have heard so much talk about responsibility, but we also highlight the political irresponsibility of certain majority members of the Government of National Unity. The other important point to clarify, because it is right that Italians know, President Draghi, is to understand if the goal is to save the country (she is very authoritative and has all the esteem of the League Group), or if the primary interest becomes to save the wide progressive field that, as we have seen, ended up with some error. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I use a joke made by Mr Mastella: he ended up in the incinerator in Rome. We have to understand what the truth is, because if the objective is to support the broad progressive field, in the end this means showing up in this Chamber, essentially pretending that nothing has happened, with the same team of Ministers, except for a few minor adjustments and a blank delegation: take or leave. We in this case would have some problems, some concerns, also because, after all that has happened, it would not be serious towards the Italians and not even our voters, because, unlike many others, we have to account to our voters, to our base and to our citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If the goal is to save the country - and I am convinced, as we have known it in this time - we see a couple of scenarios on the horizon. The first would be to note that the 5 Star Movement is no longer part of the majority of the Government of National Unity [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] also because there is some kind of basic incompatibility. In your speech, Mr President-in-Office, you spoke about the issue of gas, the difficulties we will encounter this autumn, the budgetary manoeuvre. Thinking about the issue of energy and gas, can we face an emergency of this nature and this level with who on the other side says no to the increase in gas production, stop at drills, no to regasifiers? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is impossible to make the country's interest with these traveling companions! So I have found that the Movimento 5 Stars is outside, at this point we take note, instead, as my colleague Anna Maria Bernini said in the debate on the last vote of confidence, the one that the 5 Stars did not vote, that a new majority was born, that of 14 July. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Taking his words as a starting point, President, we need to rebuild a new pact. Of course, Mr President, we are there, but it means a new majority and we need to rebuild a new government: that is what we mean. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , with goals even new, even a little more ambitious, since there are no more 5 Stars. Mr President, you have rightly pointed out that the income of citizenship must be improved. We use a word a little more incisive that goes in the interests of the Italians: it must be thoroughly revised [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which does not mean not helping the needy or those who will have difficulty in accessing the world of work; of this we are absolutely aware, someone in the old governments had called it income of inclusion, is fine; but, if you realize that a measure designed to stimulate the job in reality discourages it in many cases, we must also have the courage to say that we want to change it, that we want to reform it! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, I am absolutely in favour of competition, we are clear, but I always say that good competition must also be balanced with the protection of jobs in our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , in line with national interests and not the interests of multinationals. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But that's not all. On the subject of immigration I have heard your statements recently: you rightly pointed out that we are the most welcoming country in the world, we can tell us; we have done so much, we have given examples of solidarity, we have incessant numbers of arrivals. Then, at some point, you also said that we have reached the limit. Mr President, if you say that we have reached the limit, you will have to have a discontinuity on the immigration policies that your Government has so far pursued. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These are basically the themes. Among other things, Mr President, it is useless for us to hide it, but the present Parliament will arrive at the elections - on which we understand it and understand it, President - substantially out of control. Imagine, nothing changes, we arrive in September, we start another pull and drop, how do we do the national interest? In the end, a government should at least have the political strength to ensure that Parliament can fully support it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That is why we need a new government, with you in charge, Mr President, because we value it and because you are authoritative. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Because the Italians said he has to stay where he is. The alternative, the second possible scenario, if the conditions of stability and strength I have just described were not to be verified, would be the one that some analysts have highlighted these days - there are people far more experienced than me, there are precedents, at the time of the Ciampi Government - that the President of the Republic, if she resigns, can always dissolve the Chambers, rejecting her resignation; she would remain in office until the new Government with full powers, which can of course be attributed to her without any problem and complete the reforms for the PNRR that serve the country, make immediately a budget law that secures the national accounts and at that point finally give the word to the Italians who have been waiting for so long. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As you can see, there is more than one way out of this crisis, but of course there must be a great force of discontinuity that only its authority can give. At this point, Mr President, it is up to you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u62	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u63	Mr President, I would like to sum up the demands of the League: President Draghi will allow me to do so. Basically, the League asked her by the Ministry of Lamorgese and claims to do immigration policy with LEU and the Democratic Party, to which she would also like to impose flat tax. It seems to me that the path they have outlined to you is more difficult than what has been done so far. Having said that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say to you that I have never trusted your Government from the outset, because I have never believed in these governments of assembly, all inside in the name of responsibility for the country, because in fact you do not think of the country. So much so that in these months, in fact, we have seen, rather than reforms, counter-reforms. When she spoke, at the time of her inauguration, I had almost a movement of optimism, because she said that no one should remain behind and spoke of the ecology, the green plan of Europe and solidarity in Europe. Well, among the first reforms there was the simplification decree, in which, with a stroke of pen - other than incinerator of Rome - was authorized the incineration of waste in cement factories, which are not even suitable plants for this purpose. In addition, the sacrosanct principle has also been deleted, so works and infrastructure must also respond to climate mitigation. So it's all funny, just a joke. You also promised the reform of the reforms, the tax reform, which would finally give the country momentum and accompany the reforms of the PNRR. Tax reform is still at stake: what the centre-right has also voted, while now claiming pardon, is 12 million letters from the Revenue Agency, which will reach small entrepreneurs and are already coming, to recover almost 12 billion euros. Most of those EUR 12 billion will be recovered precisely by small entrepreneurs, because nothing has been done against the great tax evasion, nothing has been done against tax avoidance and nothing has been done against tax havens, which are precisely in Europe itself. Yet we had the most authoritative man in Europe, who was sent home with a postponement: I am referring to the referral to the roof at the price of gas. While Minister Di Maio is reckless among palace games to be made pale even Renzi and goes on television to terrorize the Italians, about the fact that everything would stop and the flood would arrive universal, perhaps even the aliens to disassemble him from the chair that he conquered with many other intentions almost five years ago, in reality Europe sent him home and said that only in autumn maybe they will evaluate the price-cap. Where's all this authority? What would we lose if we lost Mario Draghi? Allow me, Mr Draghi, from the top of your competence, which is undisputed and indisputable, it is clear that we also need a little humility. It's not all of Italy that's asking you to stay. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group]] , are its parties, are the Calenda and the Renzi, which represent 2% of Italy and have brought a few hundred people to the squares. Yet, taking inspiration from this statement of yours, from this emotional attitude towards Italy that asks for something, why hasn't the vast majority of Italians who ask you and beg you to stop sending weapons to Ukraine? [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]] That Italy that asks you to start a real negotiation, because not only are the massacres in Ukraine increasing, but they are increasing dangerously and dramatically also the social tensions of our country. Shortly before, Mr Misiani said that in the autumn small entrepreneurs and families will not be able to pay the bills; already now small entrepreneurs cannot do it, already now families have to choose whether to pay a installment of the bill or to do the shopping. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]] Instead, only now you have awakened, because one of the forces that makes up the majority has decided to carry out a social petition and to say: it really does need a reform of the tax wedge, which allows employees to have something more in paychecks and entrepreneurs to have lightened the tax burden. And yet, we have the super brunette in this government, that brunette who was willing to have 40-50 billion coverage with the spending review. Garavaglia said he had the covers to make the flat tax, but he didn't pull them out for fear of being copied. Take them out or do this spending review: I know it's something very difficult, because the prebende and the rents of position are difficult to touch, but a man with so much authority could at least start to go this way. You, Minister Cingolani, smile. On the other hand, I am very embarrassed when I listen to it, very often on television, and panics at the real questions of journalists. It's really embarrassing. If I were you, I'd have taken a step back. Frankly, I tell you, because many Italians think so. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]] I would like to say another thing: this crisis is to be attributed entirely to Movimento 5 Stars. I was expelled from the Movimento 5 Stars, I have no reason to defend them, they kicked me out without a word, just because I did not trust this Government, but I am an honest person intellectually and I recognize that those deviations made in pandemics, when you all said that they were insufficient, helped the productive fabric and gave you growth to 6%. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]] Now, already in the forecast for 2023, Italy is back to being a taillight. Why don't you answer that, President Draghi? Yet the crisis is global, everyone suffers it. Why does Italy return to its last place in terms of growth, despite the great Mario Draghi? You should assume the responsibilities of this and say that maybe the Italians finally have the right to choose who to be governed by, because that's not good. I want to remember the attacks on the superbonus. You who have produced eleven modifications, now you say you want to open a technical table? You have brought thousands of businesses and families to their knees who had started the work. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]] Have you brought down an entire section, which has led - even that - to growth and after eleven changes you have not been able to improve it? You have only combined chaos on chaos, every month a change; yet that is the stability that serves the economy, the sectors that work and need the stability and seriousness of the rules and not these endless clowns with Draghi who accuses the promoters of this law of having been the authors of the greatest scam in the history of Italy, when instead you have produced the reform of Cartabia, that yesterday the Attorney Gratteri said it responds to the wishes of the papello of Riina. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group.]] That's the only reason you have to go home. All of you have an examination of your conscience, have courage and say no to this Government. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV Group. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u64	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u65	Mr President, I believe that precisely by taking inspiration from Senator Lezzi's speech we must find the reasons for moving forward. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] I believe, among other things, that all those who demonstrate, and have demonstrated in these months of government are intervening in this House, how much more important is "sfascism" in this country, rather than putting our Italy back on its feet, which is in a state of great difficulty. No one would have wished for a pandemic, nor for us to face a war on our continent, but that is it. Political forces have a duty to take responsibility for this so dramatic condition. There are those who come here in Parliament to say plague and horns of a government that has assumed responsibility, with parliamentary forces that have decided not to choose the easy path of propaganda, but to support a government that has to put in place important measures for this country. By the way, we did not value enough the fact that the President-in-Office could come to this House simply to say that he was going home, he resigned after a political force had stopped giving him confidence in an important measure such as the so-called aid decree-law. Or the President of the Council could have come here and told us that he was distributing prebende to all political forces. Anything that was required to go on, he would have gone along with it. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] These two roads could follow President Draghi. Fortunately, he chose the right path, that is to ask all of us to assume our responsibilities, because he is there. The President of the Council said that, in the face of a Parliament that decides to move forward on the path of responsibility, which decides to continue the programme for which this Government was born, he is there and there is the Government that has decided to follow this path. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Therefore, the responsibility lies with the political forces that have decided that this Government was born, and it is not responsible for the attitude of those who, until now, have decided not to intervene in Parliament, which is the place where we debate and where we decide the fate of this Government and of Italy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We have not heard a word from the Movimento 5 Stars: all the Members who had signed up to speak have cancelled and have decided not to say what they think. It is also not responsible for the attitude of the League, Mr President, which says, on the one hand, that the objective of this Government cannot be to legitimise the wide field and, on the other hand, that this Government only goes forward if it breaks down the wide field, as if the interest of the Italians was the wide field and not that of not having the rising prices and the costs of the bill skyrocketing. What interests the Italians is this, not the broad camps, not the electoral campaigns. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Compared to this, when we risk the provisional exercise, I believe that we cannot afford inflation, not to carry out the missions with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, not to anticipate the things we have said to ourselves (not to increase taxes, incentives for businesses, the minimum wage). While we need a government that does all this, what do we do? Shall we go to the squares and mount the amplification or the ballot boxes for the election campaign? Those squares will be our Titanic [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] , because the Italians will consider us unbelievable, compared to a country that goes deeper. While there are economic difficulties, are we insulting ourselves in the election campaign? I believe that a ruling class that transversally makes such a choice is mandatory health care. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Mr President, I appeal to all the responsible forces, the same appeal that many people have made in Italy. I would like to understand - I ask my colleagues from Brothers of Italy - why, if plastic polls can be used to drag a country to the elections by virtue of a fact that we will then check the seats if there will be, in the face of the call of thousands of mayors, the request of organizations, of the real country, of entrepreneurs, of workers, of those who struggle to move forward for the economic difficulties of their family and their economic activity, a government cannot say that it goes on because it responds to the needs of the country. The polls are more important than the appeals of the citizens, than those who ask us for a sense of responsibility. I think it was good for the President of the Council to remind us of the real country that is asking us to move forward. Unfortunately for many this Government is not the Technical Government, it is not the Government of the technocrats, it is not the Government of the bankers: this is a Government that has shown to make politics, to make difficult choices without leading this country in austerity. The Dragon Government did not "mount" itself, with all due respect for the work done by President Monti. This is a government that has decided, in difficulties, not to propose tears and blood to the Italians. We are sending home a government - for those who should assume this responsibility - at the very moment when it proposes an agenda of interventions on the tax wedge, social, middle classes, entrepreneurs, the reforms envisaged in the competition decree, in the reform of justice. By the way, clean your mouth when you mention Falcone and Borsellino [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] , when you insult Minister Cartabia, who is doing his work with great dignity. I believe it is time that political forces, like the President-in-Office of the Council, bear responsibilities. I say this to my colleagues in Forza Italia, I say this to my colleagues in the League: listen to your voters, listen to those who tell us all to respond to the needs of the country, not to do a courtesy to Putin and not to put Italy among those countries that, after that conflict, have lost their Government, an authoritative Government. Who will be there in these months, while we are in the streets doing the election campaign, asking Europe for the roof of the price of gas? Who's gonna do it? [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We will do so at our meetings, but without any chance of achieving the results. President, I appeal to the sense of responsibility of all political forces to move forward. There is time for the vote, because the vote is not canceled, thankfully. There is a precise electoral deadline, there is almost a date already set, but in these months we cannot support the electoral drive of certain parties and send the country to disaster, because we risk the provisional exercise and because we risk having those difficulties for which we have built this Government and which we have wanted to avoid in recent months. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Italy Viva-PSI confirms the trust of President Draghi and appeals to all the political forces that so far have supported him to move forward, without being dragged into populism and a perverse idea that, rather than leading us to the vote and to build a greater consensus for our political forces, would lead to the breakdown of our country. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u66	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u67	Mr President, before addressing the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to address my friend, Pharaoh, who has just spoken. Too bad that the two-thirds of his speech couldn't listen to them even President Draghi who had gone out, I imagine after the intervention of the League, giving almost a signal of what has already happened. I noticed a bit of despair in your speech, Senator Pharaoh, indeed a lot of despair. I understand that the spectre of the elections, the fear, the ghost of this democracy are approaching. Italians who choose become the fear of horror films for many in this House. When there's an election, it's almost like you're hiding in the house and putting sandbags in the window, things like that. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] President Draghi, you were very clear. I would like to begin by addressing you now. Sometimes I fear that this system, dominated by the left in the aspects of culture, the judiciary, art and journalism, will be so strong that even the freedom of the President of the Council to decide to resign. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] She had decided to resign and then threw her by her hair and feet to get her back here after six days - a record, since we usually return after twenty-four hours - to have time to orchestrate the campaign we saw, with 1,500 mayors out of 8,000 and 150 people - and no more, so what people? - in front of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan to shout "Titì nun ce lascià", recalling an ancient film by Nino Manfredi, as my colleague Rauti did before. You, President Draghi, have been corrected. Although they forced her back here, you said that without the popular vote it is no longer possible to have a government with you as President. He said that, without the popular vote, he needs to have a large majority to continue. Speaking of the latest events, he also added that the majority of people have been fed up, the desire to be together has been exhausted, there has been the end of the pact of trust with the contrary vote of the Movimento 5 Stars and that it is not possible to minimize this fact. These are his words, to which I add: is it possible to minimize what is already happening in this debate? Perhaps you did not notice, because you spoke, that the only standing ovation during your speech, to which we also associated, is when you quoted Falcone and Borsellino. For the rest, I did not see any applause - and I am pleased - from the friends of the League and also, but it was obvious, of the Movimento 5 Stars. Moreover, there was no applause - if not someone isolated - from Forza Italia. I understand that the President-in-Office of the Council has left the Chamber again because the games are played. There is not that large majority that the President considered necessary in order to continue. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] The League Leader's appeal to a new government with whom? Not with the Movimento 5 Stars - it has correctly found the responsibilities and the hard contrasts between the center right that was to the Government and the left that said that it is not part of the pact of Government and therefore we speak of free drugs and immigration or, worse, we do nothing to decrease the taxes, indeed. The government is gone. On the other hand, is there anyone - raise your finger if there is one - who really believes that the interventions that have been and will follow, in which we talk about the need to keep the Government alive for a sense of responsibility, are sincere? Do we really think that Italia Viva has as its first objective to keep the Government alive for a sense of responsibility towards Italians? Do any of you really believe that the Democratic Party is not looking with despair at nearby elections that would not finally see it, probably - will the Italians decide - the opposition? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Does anyone really believe that? Does an Italian believe that? Then I understand who is afraid abroad, President Draghi. There's a song by Gaber that says: I don't feel Italian, but luckily or unfortunately I am. I think it's a feeling, not about the President of the Republic, but about someone. We Italians are. It is clear that there is someone abroad who has reason to doubt that a change of government can be negative. What is this reason? To fear that a new government will not be clearly and compactly deployed on the side of the West, on the side of NATO, on the side of aid to Ukraine. Brothers of Italy, who will never enter this Government, if there is a center-right government, can guarantee that it will be a government on the side of the West, on the side of NATO and on the side of Ukraine's defence. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] President Draghi, then what are the reasons why we insist on voting? This is a simple reason. If it were true that interrupting the legislature today creates discomfort on some issues, but when, in a few months' time, this parliamentary term ends, will everything be done? Or even in six, seven or eight months there will be questions that would advise them to ask: but how do they vote? So what's the system you like? A system where you never vote? A system - says Ignazio La Russa - with an election ban? A system with a government appointed by the President of the Republic without a popular vote? The situation will not be different from what will be in six, seven or eight months. Even in eight months there will be questions that need a government. Another assurance, which I regret President Draghi does not listen: if Parliament is dissolved and the Government Draghi remains in office for the ordinary administration, which has very broad boundaries, when a large majority wants to define it as such, Brothers of Italy will continue to make the patriotic opposition that it has done all these years. If action is to be taken while Parliament is dissolved - you know well that Parliament, loose, can work until the new Parliament is established and the Government remains in office until the new Government is born - we will be patriotic opposition. There is no fear of power gaps in a democratic system. The power gaps are only in dictatorial systems: a dictator died, there is a crisis. There is no democratic system. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Why do we ask you to allow us to vote again? Why do we have this need? No, President Draghi. It is easy to understand that if you decide, despite everything and against the interest of Italians, to continue, for Brothers of Italy there is a continuing tendency to increase consensus. We have no private interest in that this experience of Government continues; indeed, we are convinced that the good of Italy, the good of the Italians, is to have a Government son of a program presented to the electoral consensus, a Government son of a coalition compact with a precise project. We are convinced that the good of Italians is to have a Government son of the popular vote. Let's do it! [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u68	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u69	Mr. Draghi, we are certainly at a decisive step for the country, and we are not one for this or that political force, but we are one for the country. After all, this debate has revealed that, if we are here, the responsibilities are not just on the one hand and you have said that well, Mr President. He also said that we did - we did, and you said so yourself - this majority that was born without any political formula, as the President of the Republic said. It is not that now the Government of the League can be born - I say it nicely to my colleague Romeo. No: we are trying to find an answer and each political force assumes its responsibilities. We have done important things and - I would like to remind you because we have forgotten a little - it is not that in recent months we have not had fibrillations, we have had no difficulties, there have been no majority parties who have not voted for, for example, the obligatory vaccine or government positions, such as colleagues in the League. No, we've had fibrillations, but we've always been able to build synthesis together, and maybe that's where we had to and we could work. The results were significant. Let's think about the contrast to the pandemic and the vaccination campaign. She remembered them all. And we must not forget that there is a war going on and that it is essential for Italy in Europe to carry out its initiative - we must say this, Mr President - for a ceasefire and peace. This is a fundamental point of our action and the role of Europe. Is there inflation? Beyond the political positions of the different parties and the interests of the different parties, it is clear that Italy needs a Government. But if I too want to look - as you did - outside this House at the fibrillations, clashes and positions of the various parties, I believe that there is a fundamental reason why we are here. On one verse it is the fact that elections are approaching, good or bad, and that some parties, apart from the statements of principle on responsibility, are looking for their own positioning, perhaps in an internal competition at the same center-right. There is also a much more important reason than this, which tells us that we need to redefine the agenda and we, President, are available to the new pact that it has proposed. The real situation of the country and the social crisis and the problems also posed by the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars - although I did not share what they did - are real problems that you, President, rightly picked up by proposing the social pact with the economic and social forces and the theme of addressing the dramatic salary issue of the country. Over the last thirty years the purchasing power of wages has decreased (only in Europe to have recorded this figure). This is the agenda that we must reconstruct, first of all to bring the PNRR to the ground and redefine a perspective to the country. Part of this House is now calling for a vote. But the real condition of the country is very different from that of which you speak and the ability to respond to those problems is certainly not the one, for example, of a taxation with a single rate, which would exonerate from the Constitution and progressiveness, in a country where there are 109 billions of tax evasion. This is the real, substantial debate, and it is here that everyone takes responsibility. I believe - if I understood correctly - that the League, in this debate, has sent out some messages which, objectively, from my point of view, are not admissible. Let's see if in these hours, in some villa in this city, he matures another position. Let's see, because this is not a position that is good for Italy. I do not know if it will be good for the League - I care little - but certainly it is not good for Italy. With regard to elections, Article 1 of the Constitution - and this applies to all - states that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution. What is needed is a new pact and a new capacity, even of the Government, to have a different relationship with Parliament and its majority. There have been times when the majority, together, unitedly, have made proposals and not always listened up to the serious and important work that this Parliament has done. From this point of view the fundamental message is as follows: Italy needs a Government and this Government needs a serious political majority of a Government that is able to synthesize, build a real plant, capable of responding to the problems of the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu-Echo and PD Groups]] That is why, Mr President, we are telling you with conviction that we are here. We strongly respect the social agenda and we want and hope that this will be possible, because Italy cannot go on in this way. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu-Echo and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u71	Mr Draghi, you did well - I believe - also in the light of the discussion that followed, to remember the reasons of your Government; the reasons why, in a difficult situation for the country and in the face of the need to restart it, very different political forces have chosen to accept the invitation of the President of the Republic and to do so in the interest of the country, only of the country, and not for reasons of partisanity. Those reasons have not ended - that is what we think - on the contrary, others have been added, as you mentioned. Not only is it increasingly clear that there are not only problems to be addressed, but also opportunities to be seized for the future. You did well, President Draghi - in this case too in the light of today's debate - to claim the results of these months of government. You were right to remember that we were the first to leave. You were right to remember the data on GDP and public debt. He did well to remember the 33 billion put on the field to help families and businesses. And he did well not only because it is right to oppose a narrative that denies the results obtained, but also and above all because we should all be proud to have shared them. I am thankful for the majority: Let's revenge them. Reforms are important: tax reform, simplification reform, procurement, justice. Other than reforms challenged by Europe! Reforms on justice respond to a need for this country to make processes faster and to give more certainty to citizens. We've done important things for the future. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I very much appreciated the choice to mention the fight against the Mafia among the objectives of the agenda, because I believe it is important in this context to remember that there is still a serious risk to our economy and our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You, Mr President, have proposed a new pact, which also takes into account the fact that the framework has changed: war, inflation and the energy crisis tell us that we need more responsibility, more coherence with the reasons that have led us to support this Government, knowing that many of the things we must do for the country, but especially for people, must be done now. The social agenda that you have proposed, to prevent the new crisis from affecting families, impoverishing them and increasing inequalities, cannot wait. We have to protect people, and we have to do it now, not in three months. We have to help businesses and we have to do it now, not in three months. We need clarity. We need to cut taxes on work to ensure that the purchasing power of our wages does not continue to shrink. The contracts must be closed, the minimum wage must be introduced. In order to do all this we need an authoritative and credible government to deal with the steps that - as you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, reminded us - we have before us in Europe: from the revision of the rules to the roof of the gas price. Furthermore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will support you because we want to complete the PNRR and we know that the necessary reforms are still different: the draft competition law and the reform of the tax process must be done; either the next financing of 19-20 billion is now or will be lost. We agree, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the agreement that you have proposed to us today to do these things and we are more convinced than we are to give you confidence. In the face of your proposal, therefore, we respond in this way, clearly. And I would like to make it quite clear that everyone should do the same: to say clearly whether or not they agree with this proposal. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must all have the responsibility of saying yes or no, clearly and in front of the country. It is not serious to invent other roads, or to lay conditions. We need to say yes or no to the pact that has been proposed to us. We must immediately do what is necessary for the country. Link La Russa, the horror film for us would not be the vote, which is always a celebration of democracy, as the many who fought for it have already taught. The horror film is a policy that once again, in the name of incomprehensible partisan interests, misses the opportunity to give protection and help the Italians, to do what they have to do, to help the Italians get out of difficulties. We're here. We say yes. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u72	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u73	Mr President, I do not know whether I will use all the time at my disposal, but our Group has not spoken today and, therefore, I believe that, in the exercise of democracy [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] One is worth one and one takes everyone's time. So, in the end, it's just a matter of organizing the work, but I may be speaking less, even if I've already wasted some time. I appeal to the whole Government, and therefore also to the President-in-Office of the Council, who, even in these minutes - I have understood this from a cross of eyes as an expert in the Chamber - savours the efforts of politics, because then there are the phone call, the contact, the mediation. And it is perhaps the one who has a high-quality technical profile that must continue to learn. One never finishes learning and the exams never end, even for the great competent ones who have performed functions of great prestige. The reasons for the birth of this Government clearly and soberly reminded them of President Draghi himself this morning, at the beginning of his speech. I want to say that the leader of our movement Silvio Berlusconi was among the first to hope for such a solution: the legislature had to go ahead, the formulas had all been tried; there was one who was the President of the Council of all majorities; he was also ready to do it with the so-called leaders. Then, he failed to make the third government and, since there was the emergency of the Covid, at that moment even stronger than today, there was the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience to be presented in an appropriate way in Europe, we first wanted a solution such as the one that came about. We have supported and shared it with loyalty and sincerity, because the Forza Italia Group expresses a culture of government, a culture of doing, a political choice that looks at the substance of the facts, as well as to belonging, and that has also been able to put the interest of the country in times more difficult than this. I remember when the Berlusconi Government was unjustly disassembled and arrived at the Monti Government, and for many months we shared the responsibility to support that Government because there was a delicate passage of the country's life. Therefore, lessons of seriousness and stability will not be taken from anyone, neither for the past nor for the future. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The irresponsible people sit on other benches in this House, because in the history of the political life of this movement - new, but no longer new - we have shown a sense of responsibility in so many passages, and first of all President Berlusconi with great generosity: the broad consensus, the timeliness of decisions. Today President Draghi recalled 6,6% of GDP growth and rightly - here is President Draghi coming back and saying goodbye again - he also wanted to say that it is "your merit", in our sense, of Parliament, to have supported the measures that have been adopted and that have brought that growth, which was also a bit a bounce after the years of the Covid, but that was 6,6% anyway. We are proud to have supported this government action. We are also proud to be good Italians, President Draghi, and to have made certain choices, like the last ones. A few days ago - I have to remind those who listen to us outside this House once again - we voted for the trust in that decree-law that provided EUR 20 billion to families and businesses, and it was right to support it. [[Applause.]] Then, Mr Draghi, let Parliament have the opportunity to discuss this or that article, this or that paragraph, because in the end Parliament is used to speak, to discuss and to discuss. We have ample confidence in the choices you propose, but we believe that the country is a complex reality that needs to be listened to. President Draghi, you mentioned discussions on the seaside resorts, the land registry, transport or even a little more serious about Ukraine. We are here - as you also said - because a group that was part of the majority and of the government - I see Minister D'Incà, who I quote without intent polemic, sitting there - before an important decree-law, despite having signed the founding pact of the Government that you have recalled, does not vote for trust. And yet, you have your ministers sitting at that desk. Nobody's talking today. We want clarity. We don't lend ourselves to the scenes of the Movimento 5 Stars and the triggers, and neither can she. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] So we are here for this, because on the rest, such as the competition, we discussed days and days. You know, undersecretary Garofoli knows, the Ministers, Minister Giovannini and others know. We see each other, we have meetings via Zoom and we discuss: it is the struggle of democracy. I spent days and nights in the parliamentary classrooms, when people put less trust and voted on hundreds of amendments and no one died of votes, debates and parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You know this because, allocated elsewhere, it was part of the institutions and therefore knows the hard work of democracy. So, that's why we're here. A pact of trust is over: you said so. That's what the 5 Stars broke, not voting for the government and taking positions. I open a parenthesis on the radiator, because even the leader of that Movimento said that they are nonsense - even if he did not use this expression - addressed to his own. That rule on the heat-to-energy plant - here I address my colleagues in the PD - was introduced in a waste emergency in Rome, to give powers to a mayor of Rome of the PD, because the president of the Region, Zingaretti, of the PD, did not realize the plants for the transformation of waste in Rome and Lazio. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That must be made clear. Mr. President Draghi, you are Roman and you know that in Lazio waste is sent abroad, you pay countries to be able to use as energy raw material the waste of Rome and Lazio and the citizens of Rome and Lazio pay the additional Irpef to finance all this. The responsibility, colleagues of the PD, you have it, because Zingaretti was also your secretary while he was the president of the Region: he does not come from abroad. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] So, dear President Draghi, we are the most serious and responsible of all: I say this to the Government, to the Assembly and also to public opinion. On the matter of merit, I will make a few remarks, having some time. You then spoke of the end of the confidence pact and a new confidence pact. A new confidence pact - a literal quote from your speech - is a new confidence pact. It's not what it used to be, and if someone called themselves out, Mr. Ministers, we don't want the new trust pact because some of us want the place of someone who's sitting there. There are also our representatives in this government who have worked hard. We have no need for places, but the new confidence pact means discontinuity. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] with a government in which there are ministers who do not vote for self-confidence. So, they're the ones who should take the cards and say they've changed their minds and make another choice. It is legitimate in democracy. Mr President, we are here to hear these days the splits of the Movimento 5 Stars and the diatribe on the third term of the 5 Stars, because the main problem of the triggers is the third mandate of some of the nomenclature who, arrived by bus in Montecitorio, want to travel with the blue car all their lives. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That's the truth! The President of the Chamber of Deputies on the bus saw him one day. Then we can't stay here to know if Casalino renews the contract with the Parliamentary Group and if the parliamentary groups after the split have enough money to pay the 300,000 euros to Grillo's blog. These are things we read in the papers. Then, ladies and gentlemen, these are your problems. However, since there is this emergency in the country, about which everyone spoke, first Dragons, we are facing the emergency. We can't be fooled, and no one can be fooled! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is what discontinuity with the scenery means: it really means facing the emergencies of the country, not those of Casalino, not those of the third mandate of some colleague, and doing other things. Then you will allow us, Mr President, to also point out that you finally said that you were only here because the Italians asked for it on speakerphone. Many Italians have asked for this, people are afraid of instability, we realize it, but I can remind you that not only did Parliament ask for this, but it was asked for the first of all Italians: the President of the Republic. You have therefore complied with a proper parliamentary and constitutional procedure and not because there was an appeal, otherwise here we do the populism snob, after the many basic populisms. What do we mean, clarified this need for discontinuity? Today you have made a few remarks, you have also spoken about the matches, but I say something clear about competition, we have also discussed it other times and with other colleagues of government: we are a liberal movement and we want competition, but if Amazon and Uber do not pay taxes, we defend the last artisan who pays taxes every day. [[Applause]] I do not have to explain it to you, President Draghi, who has led international bodies and has extensive experience. Today there is the theme of the great platforms and the tax-free financial potentates; a few days ago we discussed cinemas in this House - I do not see Minister Franceschini - because today cinemas and producers in individual countries are overwhelmed by platforms, which offer everything cheaply without paying taxes. It is a problem of economic democracy not to destroy the economy, the craftsman and the trader. Then, with equal taxation, progress and modernity will make their way, but we cannot add to modernity also a tax exemption, which derives from the globality of organizations. This is antisocial. So, a fiscal democracy, if it doesn't start from these things, what does it have to start from? Here too there is competition, because we Liberals want competition on equal terms; not that small people pay everything and big people pay nothing. [[Applause]] Exactly the opposite should happen. We stress a number of priorities. You certainly have to reply and I hope that you will also take us into account, because you have made a few comments and I believe that you have been generous enough with the Democratic Party. It is true that I am out of the subject of government, but you said that this majority was born at a dramatic moment, that I am not here to remember, that war and dear energy have been added, so social, economic, health and PNRR emergencies have expanded. You also said that, when you make an abnormal and exceptional majority for such a tragic moment, everyone has to give up something and set aside some flags. Then also make a few remarks to a group that has put the issues of the legalization of drugs and immigration as a priority. [[Applause]] This creates difficulties for the action of the Government and the majority. Everyone has the right to pursue his arguments, if he has a majority, has won the elections, has a programme and implements it: it is democracy. If one loses, he must accept the choices of others and vice versa; but at this delicate moment, I know that it is not a choice of the Government, but you can also invite the Groups to avoid divisive flags. You mentioned the reform of justice. Do you want us then to raise our flags to say that we need career separation and a genuine and full reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary? Do you want us to do this? [[Applause]] You are very attentive to the great issues of the economy. In today's newspapers, you can read that the Milan Public Prosecutor has given up appeal in that trial involving ENI. I don't have to defend ENI, which doesn't need me, but it's a big international group. You, as former Director General of the Treasury and Governor of Banca Italia, know all these mechanisms better than I do. There was a trial that ended with absolution. We are in an energy emergency and some areas of the judiciary are going to pursue the energy giants vainly. I don't want impunity for ENI, if it's wrong, but I also want to understand the scandal. I mentioned one not to mention other historical events that would be too easy to remember. President Draghi, we could have waved our flags on justice or tax, because today we would have expected something more about fiscal peace and the dismantling of records. He mentioned tax delegation and I also understand economic compatibility, because I am big enough to realize that between ads, propaganda and reality something goes by, but a few more words should be done. For us the true reform of justice and tax are priorities and, since we are in emergency, we do not do as colleagues of the PD and other groups: we do not wave flags to make the life and action of the government more difficult. This too is a sense of responsibility. We do not give up because we are not convinced, because we understand that the moment is this and Italy has also passed others. Everyone has made sacrifices; steps backwards must be taken by everyone, Mr Draghi, to tell the whole House, and public opinion may understand that. Then the time of the elections will come: if it comes first, we will organize ourselves first and everyone will have his own programs; those with the most votes will have the democratic right to implement his program, with the necessary temperaments. There are many other things that could be said. You spoke earlier about some discussions. When we defended the story of the land registry, we defended the house: Italy is one of the few countries in the world where 80% of families have invested their savings in the house, so it is not a caste, it is not a category, it is not a sector. You have all received in these times: just receive Landini and the unions, less just receive Uber. Speak a little more to traders, to tourism operators, to the categories of the autonomous world or to VAT matches. VAT Game is not a bad word [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , but a condition of those who do not have an income certainty and every day they have to get on the market resources for their own family. [[Applause]] Yes, VAT matches, there are also those. We therefore take the opportunity to claim these issues with the wisdom and moderation that the times allow. Otherwise, if we're gonna pull out the flags, we're gonna make the folk festivals of our beautiful municipalities pale, too. I also want to tell you that there are serious issues. You know what worried me the most yesterday? Not the renewal of Casalino's contract, which I understand you're very agitated. Yesterday I saw a photograph that you also saw in the newspapers: Iran's president Raisi, Putin and Erdoğan; three powerful, like it or not, who have oil and gas. The Turkish Navy has 60,000 staff, while our Navy has 24,000. Mr Guerini knows these things and knows why we are asking for more money: not to bomb children, but to avoid not counting anything in the Mediterranean as a nation and as a Europe. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Casini]] We, too, do not take lessons in Atlanticism. Welcome Minister Di Maio: from yellow vests to the veils of the Farnesina. We said the right things even before, without reading the official's veil on duty. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] When I saw that image yesterday, I wondered, where is the West? We have a problem: Johnson resigned, President Biden let it go, Omissis. Do you know where the West is? He was positively beached in Pratica di Mare, where a gentleman named Berlusconi [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] 20 years ago, he put NATO, America and the Russians around a table talking. These emergencies, as politician, militant and legislator, I warn you all, so I was worried about that image. They do their best. Iranians are the ones who threaten Israel; in short, there is a whole series of small problems on the planet. That is why we must call for seriousness. If there is a majority that had already expressed itself on that trust, this majority can rule the country with this President of the Council. We do not need special armchairs, but we do need seriousness and discontinuity: with those who exchange politics and Parliament, who had to open up like a tuna box, for the theater - they do - of politics, we cannot share a path, but you, President Draghi, less than we, for your history and your prestige, which we respect. You respect them with us for the good of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Licheri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u75	President Draghi, I immediately want to reassure you and those present that, whatever may happen, you will never find a 5 Star that, on the basis of an electoral convenience, brings down a government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is how we are, we have always maintained an absolute line of responsibility and a clear, linear and sincere position. Those who speak to you, ironically, were the Parent Company when you first came here to ask for trust. We know that you have a good memory, so you will remember that while everyone was peeling their hands by greeting the king, I told you never to consider ours as an unconditional trust, in white, but to be careful, because we would have entered your Government if we could continue to defend the fruits of our work and to ensure that European measures could remain within the country and that political ideologies did not overwhelm the social and ethical significance of the laws that we had brought in Italy. I was present, however, even during the consultations and I know that this Government was born with two objectives: to overcome the epidemic and to put the PNRR to the ground. Unfortunately, however, reality today gives us a different scenario. Today INPS and Istat offer us a terrible picture, that of a country that is on the verge of the abyss and we cannot but ask for a change of pace; we cannot fail to observe how in the face of this emergency which you yourself mentioned this morning concrete actions and measures are needed. In front of those 40,000 companies that I cannot pay employees' salaries at the moment because they have been blocked the transfer of tax credits, what do we answer today? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We cannot say today, as you say, that we are going to deal with the problem of superbonus with a table, because we are not professional politicians, but we know that when we do not have clear ideas about something we are talking about opening a table to deal with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But those people are waiting to see if the problem for you is the transfer of tax credits. Here we are trying to understand if the superbonus is restrained because it is a measure of the Five Stars, while camping the excuse of alleged frauds of one percent or another. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are trying to understand if the compliments the European Commission has given us are sincere and if that is the way we have to go to pursue economic multipliers, as Nomisma said only four days ago. We wonder if you, President, will really be able to be the guarantor of this Government of national unity, hearing the voices you have just heard of the Parent Company of the League and the Parent Company of Forza Italia. How will you explain to them that the ecological transition is not a slogan? Ecological transition means new business and economic models and a future of prosperity, because that's where the new jobs are. We cannot use the Ukrainian crisis and war as a pretext to go back to looking at coal and thinking about investing in fossil deposits in our seabed. We cannot do that, because we have spoken clearly to our young people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If anyone thinks that ecological transition is just an exercise in vocabulary rhetoric for us, they have not understood anything about the Movimento 5 Stars. You should have understood that when the rule on the incineration plant in Rome arrived on the table of the Council of Ministers and our Ministers rose. In fact, he denied us the engraving: "In line with the main European directives of the sector". How can we put together a government of national unity that faces terrible challenges? Next autumn 20 percent of Italian families will have to choose whether to eat, pay rent or warm up, because all three things will not be able to do. We heard many statements of intent from him, but we are on July 14 and INPS and Istat only on July 8 last offered us a really disturbing photograph. Istat has told us that citizenship income has developed a decisive force in the fight against poverty, saving 500,000 families. Indeed, Istat tells us that at the moment there are 4 million workers who receive less than 12,000 euros per year. In other words, 4 million workers have a regular contract and, nevertheless, fail to cross the poverty line. President Draghi, we have understood from your speech that we do not yet have an answer because there is someone, completely unscathed by reality, who thinks that it is enough just to raise the level of employment to resolve the social issue. In this government there is someone who would really want to take away the citizenship income altogether. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] How can this national unit be made compatible when it is said that citizenship income has become the cause of all the evils of the Italian labour market? Are there no seasonals? It's the citizen's income. Citizenship income also exists in France and Germany, yet there are no seasonal problems in those countries. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If a young man claims to be paid decently, as our Constitution states, it is the fault of the Movimento 5 Stars, which introduced the income of citizenship. [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] We've been under attack and not since this morning. What has been said about us this morning is nothing compared to what we had to endure simply because we are the only political force that is seriously questioning this crisis. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are the only political force that is questioning and pressing the government, but we do not ask for seats, as Senator Romeo of the League did. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't ask for bumps. We only ask to be able to give answers to our citizens, trying to understand what is right at this time is what is left. [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] The intervention of Italia Viva could have written it quietly Forza Italia. The intervention of the League could easily have written it Italia Viva. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When we raise the question of the link between ecological transition and social justice, there are political forces here that do not raise the problem, because they do not recognize either. [[Applause]] President Draghi, we have never failed you in our loyalty. We are pleased with the centralisation of Parliament and how we have parliamentarians in this debate, but, Mr Draghi, you said that we need a strong government and a parliament to accompany it. Attention, Mr President, because democracies are strong when Parliament is strong and the government accompanies it. [[Applause]] You have raised doubts about our Atlanticist loyalty, our Europeanist belief and the maximum, full and unconditional support for the Ukrainian people, but you know well, President Draghi, that, if you intensify the war fight, arming, arming and still arming, it automatically weakens the diplomatic channel. It is not enough to arm Ukraine, therefore, and then congratulate Russia on its negotiating table. For its part, we call for an intensification, not of the war conflict, but of the diplomatic channel and negotiating tables. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I shall end by asking for dignity. It offers dignity to the document we have given you, in which there are problems, analyses and solutions. That's capital P politics. There are no flags there; those who have read it cannot say that there are any. There are social issues, on which we ask you to express your opinion, but with equally clear words, such as those that today used the Movimento 5 Star Group in the Senate towards him. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u78	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, I am asking for a suspension to proceed to a group meeting before continuing with our work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gallone, how long does it take? GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, about an hour and a half, but also two hours. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is there already an agreement on this with the other groups? GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Yeah, there's a deal with the other groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u81	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the purpose of this suspension is to allow the majority to reach an agreement to save what cannot be saved. The general discussion is over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Ciriani, it is not over: there is still a registered senator to speak. CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, in any case, we are opposed to this further delay in time. The majority had six days to discuss their contradictions and this is already quite a strange circumstance. It doesn't take six and a half days. We are asking for a vote at last in this House, because we are curious to hear President Draghi's opinion and to hear his reply. There is no time to waste on other matters. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u84	CRUCIOLI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, it has been said that there is an agreement with the Groups. The United Group for the Constitution-CAL knows nothing about this and is opposed to the request for suspension. This is, among other things, an hour and a half request. Parliamentarianisation took place, the groups expressed their views in the general debate, and it is now important to listen to President Draghi's reply. The positions are very clear and therefore this seems to us to be a further disrespect for Parliament. [[Applause.]] We therefore call for the floor to be given to President Draghi and then to give a voice to the group chairmen for explanations of vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u85	If there are no other speeches, I would point out that a five-and-a-half-hour debate had been planned in the planning planned at the Conference of Leaders. We have arrived at four exact hours, so the hour and a half is present in the planning. Since the majority agree on this suspension, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 15.17 p.m. and resumed at 16.59 p.m.) He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u86	Mr President, appreciate the circumstances, I shall give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u87	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Calderoli, Bernini, Romeo and De Poli and No 2 by Senator Casini. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u88	Mr President, senators and senators, it will be a fairly short reply. First of all, I would like to thank all those who supported the work of the Government with loyalty, collaboration and participation. The second point concerns a remark made by Mr Casini, Mr Garnero Santanchè, Mr Gasparri and Mr Licheri: these are more or less similar comments, made by them four, concerning a few words expressed by me, in my initial speech, with which I almost seem to question the nature of our democracy, as if I had said that it is not a parliamentary democracy. Democracy is parliamentary, it is democracy that I respect and in which I recognize myself. At this point, I would like to reread exactly the things I said: Last Thursday I resigned in the hands of the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella. This decision was followed by the failure of the majority of national unity which supported this Government since its inception. The President of the Republic rejected my resignation and asked me to inform Parliament of what happened, a decision I shared. At this point there were two possibilities: one was simply to come to the Chamber, declare and confirm my resignation, leave an intervention and leave without a vote. The support I have seen in the country and - I read - the mobilization of these days by citizens, associations and territories in favor of the continuation of the Government is unprecedented and impossible to ignore. It is this support that led me to propose or propose the pact, a pact, of coalition and submit it to your vote: it is you who decide. So, no demands for full powers. Okay? That is why we have reached this point in the debate. I wanted to respond to this, because it is very important. We come to a third point that has been raised: why didn't the Government enter into ius soli, ius scholae, cannabis or Zan bill? I want to be clear, as this has been a reproach to the Government on various occasions. The Government has not intervened because it has decided not to intervene, because of its nature as a Government based on a broad coalition, let us call it national unity, in matters of parliamentary origin. Then I come to some specific questions, raised above all by Senator Licheri. On the minimum wage, I said what I had to say. There is a proposal being approved at European Commission level. We have opened a table with the unions, with the Confindustria, we will open it and continue the discussions, whatever your decision today, with the other employers' confederations. I think we can get to a minimum wage proposal that doesn't see taxation, the government's Diktat on the employment contract. Even on citizenship income I said what I had to say. Citizenship income is a good thing, but if it doesn't work, it's a bad thing. [[Comments.]] As for the superbonus, you know what I've always thought about, but the problem is not the superbonus, it's the disposal mechanisms that have been drawn. Who designed those disposal mechanisms, without discrimination and without discernment, is he (or she, or them) the culprit of this situation, in which thousands of companies are waiting for credits [[Applause]] Now we have to repair the malfaction, we have to get out of the mess those thousands of businesses that are in difficulty. [[Applause]] I really don't have much more to say. I would ask that the question of trust be raised in the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Casini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u89	As the question of trust has been raised, I suspend the sitting and immediately point out the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 5.06 p.m. and resumed at 534 p.m.) The Presidency takes note of the Government's position on the matter of trust on the approval of motion for resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u92	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, we appreciate your clear words, your firm vision of what is still to be done. All this reassures us and whoever interprets it as a demand for full powers has understood nothing. More than two out of three Italians ask her not to abandon, and so do business organisations and trade unions, not to mention the European allies and Ukrainian friends. Listening to her words, we realized that this demonstration of esteem and affection did not leave her indifferent. You who are one of the most important men of state of the last twenty years cannot pass to history like the one who abandoned the ship in open sea. We all know that we are facing very difficult times and that political instability can only aggravate the situation. Not only the PNRR money, but also the anti- spread shield that the European Central Bank is making up, are at risk. The frugals will come back to ask why of the many aids to an unstable and irresponsible Italy. In Russia they have already toasted because Europe loses one of the most authoritative and convinced supporters of Ukraine. Mr President, the truth is that both Italy and Europe need you at this historic moment. I can perfectly understand that he is sick of threats, flags and ultimatums, but in a country where anti-system winds have always been blowing the formula of national unity cannot be simple. Colleagues, I really wonder who wants to take responsibility for making this government fail. It is not true that President Draghi did not give signals; in reality he gave a great signal, that he is willing to rebuild the confidence pact between the government forces for a new restart. It is now up to others to accept your invitation and, as you say, they will have to respond to their choices to the country. We self-employed will be on his side. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u95	DI NICOLA (IPf-CD). Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we have all listened to President Draghi's communications with a timely reconstruction of the origins and developments of this government crisis, which are difficult to understand in this House, but even more so in the country. The government was born on the initiative of the President of the Republic, after the parties had proved unable to launch an Executive against the terrible scenarios that the pandemic was opening in the country. President Mattarella was clear: there were three emergencies to deal with: pandemic, economic and social. From there the call to political forces to join in a great effort of national solidarity to protect the interests of the country and citizens even in the face of the fourth emergency, the war. From here came the pact of trust based on the national solidarity that you, President Draghi, this morning reiterated to have failed because of the lack of support of what at the time of the launch of the Government was the main political force present in Parliament, namely the Movimento 5 Stars. We have all seen what has happened since the opening of this very difficult and incomprehensible political phase. The majority entered into crisis with the Government, while the voice of citizens who demand unity and stability of government has risen from the country, clear and strong. Many, as you yourself said, have been the appeals in the newspapers and in the media and a lot of the mobilization coming from every area of civil society. Everyone has pointed out with clear truths how, for mere vanity and lack of responsibility of political representatives of some parties, one wants to make the country dance a dance, placing it on the brink of a precipice. However, our country has expressed itself and answered clearly, at least for those who are able to listen and understand. The social forces have done so, starting with the large trade unions, and Confindustria itself, as well as Confcommercio, the associations of doctors and illustrious intellectuals. To these voices has been added that of as many as 12 associations, among which the ACLI, the ARCI, Catholic Action, Confcooperative FUCI, Abel Group, Legambiente. Legacoopsocial and Libera. Everyone asks you, Mr President, as we ask you, to continue your work. They write these associations: Beyond the different assessments that can be made on the responsibility and actions of the actors in the field, we believe that the drama of the moment and the many demands of dignity of society do not need a crisis, because they would come out even more compromised. We would all pay the consequences, especially those who are already and will be most affected by the convergence in a perfect storm of more crises far from being resolved, such as the global war, the exodus of refugees and many poor people, inflation and the explosion of inequalities, the pandemic and the devastation resulting from the climate crisis and violence on the environment. All this as our country grows in a worrying way criminal powers, corruption and mafias. To these appeals was then added that of the about 2,000 mayors mentioned by you, of Italian municipalities of every dimension and latitude, worried also, real civil heroes struggling with the problems of the citizens and, after the pandemic and with the war in progress, dedicated to an unprecedented effort for economic recovery, the realization of the public works indispensable and the management of the social emergency. An effort that could be frustrated and that would lead to immobility and division, where action, credibility and seriousness are now needed. As you said, President Draghi, if we still want to be together to protect citizens, we need to rebuild the confidence pact that has allowed us in recent months to give important answers to these famous emergencies. President Draghi, we must all bear in mind in this House that such a mobilization of civil society has rarely been seen. For those who were there, perhaps in 1991, with the electoral referendums, the citizens called for electoral reforms, and they also sounded a wake-up call for what would happen next, with the political class always late, cynical, attentive to their own partisan interests. So Tangentopoli arrived and the end of the first Republic. I believe that even today's are not only a warning and a demand for stability of government, but also an solicitation for the parties to change. I also believe that leaving this cry of pain unheard can leave the way open to scenarios of extreme uncertainty. We are faced with a public debt of more than 150 per cent and a galloping inflation that puts a strain on the budgets of households and businesses, as had not happened in the last forty years. Again, the recession is ready to do just as resounding damage, and the war in Ukraine is destabilising international balances. The prospect is of an extremely difficult autumn, with energy supplies that could be dramatically insufficient. In this scenario, to dance on the edge of an abyss not only demonstrates all the cynicism of these political forces and these politicians, but reveals the real face of them and the dramatic rupture that is likely to consume towards the popular feeling of the Italians, now fed up with pathetic ballets that only a great damage can bring to the country. On the other hand, we from Together for the future Democratic Center have said this right from the start: if this government is not given the opportunity to continue its work, the citizens will pay the highest price. With the government crisis, wanted by the Conte's party, the effects on the country would be devastating. As I said, the PNRR's objectives would not be met if another EUR 20 billion were to be obtained by the end of the year, the minimum wage would be missed, there would be no increase in salary for workers who receive less than EUR 9 per hour and all the other measures that my colleagues have already mentioned this morning would be missed. This is what they want to leave as a legacy to the Italians Giuseppe Conte and his party of the crisis, with the vague illusion for more to be able to go back in the polls, careless to condemn the country to the economic and social collapse. This bad intention and responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, could also be assumed by others who could be sucked into this terrible desire to put in crisis the majority and the country. With you, President Draghi, we want to keep the door open for this new season. We want to continue to give hope and find a renewed energy to withstand the challenges, some dramatic, that are in front of the country. We believe that from our commitment can come out concretely another Italy more just and more supportive, a country where the right to life and the right to work no longer belong to indistinguishable and irreconcilable universes; a country where the right to health and environmental protection occupy a prominent place on the political agenda. You have the right, as has been said this morning, and the duty to complete the work undertaken... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. From the responsibility of our shared commitment a new beginning is therefore possible, as the citizens want, and I believe that various political forces present in this House can certainly favor it, unlike those who seem to have decided to turn their backs on the Italians. Mr President, we will vote yes to the question of trust by supporting Senator Casini's resolution. Thank you for your work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u98	CRUCIOLI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, Mr Draghi, I listened carefully to your speech this morning; your words sounded like the false coins you have poured out in full hands on the grounds you have mentioned to justify the birth of your Government. According to him, this government would be born to remedy three emergencies: the pandemic, the economic and the social. I could dwell for a long time on how these three emergencies were handled in a very bad way, but this is not the place and so I will not do so. On the other hand, I will dwell on the basic falsehood concerning the reasons you have indicated for the birth of your Government. Of course, the stated reasons were to manage the emergency, but the real reason was also to ensure in Italy, as in all the countries satellites of the United States, obedience to the orders that would be given in anticipation of the confrontation with the Asian bloc. Its settlement at Palazzo Chigi is in fact to be placed in a much wider context than the purely national one. Let's remember that in 2020 the American elections, with the victory of the Democrats have assigned the restart of the hegemonic politics of the United States as the pivotal country of the world order, capable of influencing the politics of all countries and the abandonment of the doctrine of America first, advocated by Trump, and the end of multilateralism. This recovery, involving an aggressive foreign policy, meant sooner or later the confrontation with the non-aligned countries, Russia and China in the first place, and therefore the need for the strengthening of NATO and the close control of all the vassal countries. For this reason, in February 2021, about a year after the election of Biden, the Count Government, which had meanwhile opened to the Silk Road with China, was dropped and was replaced with a Government of convenience led by her, which is not by chance nicknamed the American, having formed in Boston, having worked in American institutes such as Goldman Sachs and having held apical roles in organs functional to the world order advocated by the United States, such as the World Bank and the Group of 30. This is the real reason why you were put in charge of the government: to ensure the execution of the Atlantic orders in this small province of the empire and in this period of open confrontation for world hegemony. The interests of Italian citizens, whose mouth you filled this morning, have always been completely disinterested, because doing our interests is not your actual task and it is not at the top of your priorities. Your task and your priorities, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are to ensure that the orders given to you are carried out, however counterproductive they may be, by limiting the interference of the opponents to the maximum. From these objectives comes the contempt that you have shown towards this Parliament, which has been manifested to us through the continuous use of decree-laws and trusts; through the forcing on the times of discussion, also of measures of unholy importance, such as the counter-reform of justice or the conversion of the decree-law for the privatization of local public services; behaviors that have produced even the lifting by the group leaders of its own majority and the President of the Senate, who on 24 June wrote to you asking for the cessation of modalities that tarnished Parliament and to which it appears not to have been given answer. From these same objectives derives, moreover, the use of the media to hit the bearers of different thoughts from the dominant one. That the interests pursued by you are not those of the Italian people will become clearer and clearer as the effects of the economic crisis triggered by the war, which you do not want to end, hit our economies. You, in fact, can continue to lie by saying that you have to give up the air conditioner in order to achieve peace and you can continue to sway the wonders achieved with the funding of the now mythological PNRR. But if the families do not arrive at the end of the month and the workers lose their jobs, your lies will be vain and no one can believe you, even more confidant. However, the most serious fault that we blame you is not in betrayal and lies, but in the fact that we have managed, at least in part, to break the spirit of so many Italians, making them believe that enslaving themselves to power is the best way to limit the adversity of fate. You have led so many, so much of the country and also of this Parliament, to believe that by abdicating to freedom, giving up our sovereignty and giving up the duty to make free choices in the interests of our people and in respect for the peoples of all other nations, we could perhaps get some small gain. This is the mentality of the slaves and you are inculcating it in the Italians and especially in the new generations, the one according to which only reassuring the masters will be able to avoid the beatings, the punishments given to spread shots and market. We know perfectly well that, in the event of the fall of the government, there will be repercussions and, however, we believe that our sovereignty and our freedom are well worth the need to face the storm. We do not want the resignation of the broken and the defeated. We want the dignity of our free choices, at any cost, aware that we can reach the interests of our people, we can reach the stars, only through the harshness. Our ancestors used to say aspera ad astra. That is why we hope that this subalternal and vile government will no longer be in this position, and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will no longer be able to do so much damage to the spirit and interests of the Italians. However, if you do not leave today for a vote against this branch of Parliament, we promise the country that we will work to get the people out of it. You said today that you cannot ignore the push from below and the squares that ask you to stay. Yet, until today he has beautifully ignored the squares like the square of my city - I come from Genoa - which for 40 Saturdays afterwards was full, asking her to stop the barbarity of the green pass, to restore dignity to work, to stop sending weapons. Yet, you have always ignored the squares that now, instead, says to take into account in order to continue in your work of destruction. But we're gonna make sure that in the fall you can't really ignore the squares. President, listen to us at least once: resign and return to the people with free elections. We shall also vote against this request for confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u101	RENZI (IV-PSI). Madam President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this grotesque and absurd crisis wanted by Giuseppe Conte and the Movimento 5 Stars falls at an incredibly rich moment of problems and opportunities in the world. Vladimir Putin was in Tehran to meet counterparts from some countries around the world, retracing a speculative and similar trip made last week by Biden between Jerusalem and Gedda. Democracy is in crisis, from the United Kingdom to Sri Lanka, from the United States to Japan by Abe Shinzo, and at the same time technological innovation goes on: the James Webb telescope sends us extraordinary images, NASA says the time when the light of the universe lights up. While we are engaged in our affairs, starting from a thermo-energy plant, necessary for Rome, and which, even before being realized, risks burning the destiny of this Government, the war continues, even if it has tired even our newspapers. Last week, while we were already in crisis, a little girl named Lisa, a little girl with an extra chromosome, with Down's syndrome, was killed a few minutes after her mother posted a happy image of her on social media, proving that the war goes on even when we pretend not to Noticing. And it is a war that produces effects of various kinds, even an economic effect: inflation has been at its peak for years, not only in Italy or Europe, and, as if that were not enough, the consequences of climate change cause objective damage. Those who love Versilia in these hours see 600 hectares gone up in smoke: all real, great issues, on which a Parliament should debate. However, Parliament stands firm on an absurd and inexplicable position of those who want the crisis, but it does not have the courage to let its ministers resign. [[Applause]] ; of those who open the controversy against the Dragons Government and do not realize that tomorrow there is a press conference, one of those that President Draghi knows well: the press conference of Christine Lagarde, at the European Central Bank. The words she will use will depend on a large part of the reaction not only of financial markets but also of companies. Everyone expects rates to rise, but how these measures will be explained will mark the future of the coming months in Europe. President Draghi is well aware that, with one sentence, he has secured the euro at a time of difficulty. We say yes to the Draghi Government not only for the past, but because between September and December we are discussing the Stability Pact in Europe. And look at that, if we don't put our hand in the Stability Pact, it's pointless to ask for budgetary overflows, because if there's a country that's risking their lives right now, it's the one that has the highest debt in Europe. Who does this debate in Europe? The government led by Dragons or a resigning government divided into the election campaign? Yesterday, a financier - I quote an exponent of international finance - who is called Larry Fink, the head of one of the major BlackRock realities, said that he sees us worried about the cost of oil, but the increase in the cost of food in the coming months will be higher than the increase in the cost of oil. It is no coincidence that the geopolitical question of food sees China, at this moment, in the front row, with a far-sighted and also dangerous look in some respects, and sees us with the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy who does not know whether to give confidence to himself, in a post-adolescent disturbance that deprives the Government, at this moment, of the strength necessary to move forward. I could continue: if we go towards austerity, the issues of health funding will again be decisive. And above all, if Turkey has double-digit inflation and Russia is in all other business, is there anyone in this country who wants to reopen Libya's dossier, with everything it does, not just in terms of energy? For all these reasons, looking to the future, we will vote for the trust of President Draghi, aware that today the theatre ends. Today is the last episode of your reality show. You all decide which side you're on, taking responsibility for it to the end. Before we get to that, Mr President, let us say thank you. We also thank you for the past, for these eighteen months. Thank you for changing the pace on emergency management. Thank you for the international authority with which you chaired the G20. Thank you for that image of a train to Kiev, which made us proud to be Italian and to be European. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr President, for retiring a wrong way of dealing with the emergency, with malfunctioning Chinese wheelchairs and fans. [[Applause]] Today either you go ahead with Dragons or you go home and see that this must be of common sharing. Of course, it applies to those who have not had the courage to speak clearly at the moment. The New Testament says: "Yes, yes, yes, no, no, no, don't be lukewarm. There has been a fact: nothing will be the same as before, since tomorrow morning, for political forces. I say this from the left: I do not know how any of you, friends and comrades of the PD, may think, after this disaster, wanted by your colleagues in the wide field, to try to ally you with the 5 Star Movement in the next elections. [[Applause]] For me it is a mystery of faith and however know that we will be somewhere else. With the same frankness I say to the right, to the moderates of the right... THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Take it easy! [[Laughter.]] RENZI (IV-PSI). Always the one, Ignatius. I could ask you for copyright, but I won't, out of personal respect and an old feeling of friendship. Look, colleagues, that Ignazio La Russa is happy is understandable. I wonder how happy those who thought that the Italian right was in the European People's Party (EPP); it was the right one capable of betting on a credible and authoritative leader like Dragons. Senator La Russa is celebrating and doing well today, but he's been voting against trust for 18 months. They are the moderates of the center-right who today mark their political disappearance. [[Applause]] Like it or not, that's a fact. Finally, in conclusion, nothing will be the same as before for those who have come to Parliament and have said that they would open it like a can of tuna and they are those who pass to parliamentary history to be the first to open a crisis, distrusting the government of which they belong, and do not resign, except then tell the others that they want the seats. Of course they don't leave theirs either! But what are we discussing? [[Laughter. Applause]] Dear friends, you're playing with fire here! The next six months will be complicated, it will be six months when the cost of living will increase and the country will need answers. By voting yes to trust, we look the Italians in the eyes and say two things: the first: when against everything and against everyone, even in this House, we have opened a crisis, leaving the seats and resigning from the positions of Minister, and we have opened the way to the Government Dragons, we have done an act that today more than ever, today more than 18 months ago, makes us proud, because we have put the interest of the country at the centre and put our interest in the background. [[Applause]] But if today someone withdraws trust, after others have opened the crisis, it must be clear that to that people, who have voted with conviction, who continue to sign the appeals, who continue to make themselves heard in the streets and asks to be represented by an idea of Europe, of reformism, of work, of innovation and for growth, we will do everything to give that people a home and a roof, which will be a house and a roof against the populists and against the sovereignists. We vote yes to trusting Mario Draghi's government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u104	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, President Draghi, colleagues in the Senate, these days, but also in the last few hours, we have heard dozens, perhaps hundreds of times, of the call for seriousness and responsibility. But I ask myself and ask you: what is less serious and less responsible for saying one thing and then making another; to invoke consistency and then do exactly the opposite; to make consistency in fact rag paper? What is less serious and responsible for announcing that only a majority of a certain type will be made and then working to do anything else? What is less serious than the spectacle of a majority who has been slapped throughout the general debate and a Senate paralyzed by the fear of the vote and the return to the judgment of the Italians? What's less serious than the show we offered on live television than a Senate divided between ambiguity, tricks, half votes, vote yes, vote no, suspend, make a resolution, withdraw, etc.? I really think you've crossed the line. That's it. Let's pull a line and move on. [[Applause]] President Draghi, we anticipated what happened months ago at the time of the election of the new President of the Republic. And we had said and reiterated dozens of times that this majority could not work, because it is too contradictory within itself; it had explosive contradictions that could not be hidden. I want to read, President and colleagues of the Senate, some of the adjectives with which you have qualified in the last five days and they are adjectives that we have taken from the agencies, from the press articles and from the interviews of all the majority groups with all the other majority groups. Then you have defined yourselves as irresponsible, untrustworthy, wretched, natural, incompatible, insane, indecent, provocative, dishonest, hypocritical calamities. I'm staying here because I only have ten minutes and I can't use all the time to list all the compliments you've made. But then, all of a sudden, you came here to the Senate to explain to us that the irresponsible and unreliable, together with the wretched and incompatible, together with the insane and dishonest provocateurs, would all of a sudden work together for the good of Italy. What happened, Mr President, was inevitable, but I want to remind you of some very strange and very serious things - in my opinion - that have happened. Among the many, ministers who do not vote for the trust of the Government of which they belong; Ministers who remain within the Executive despite their party do not vote for the Government of which they belong; demonstrations organized by the PD and other left-wing parties to claim not the right to vote, but the non-right to vote. [[Applause]] We have seen people who have come to the streets to claim the right not to vote. I don't think it's ever happened in any country in the free world, an almost Orwellian scene if I'm allowed. I would also like to say that I am politically ashamed of what remains of a movement that was to make the revolution and had to break down the caste and become a super caste of powers and privileges. [[Applause]] I am ashamed of this ship of desperate people, who wander from one part of Parliament to another in search of someone who extends their experience in the Senate or in the House for a few months, who is willing to vote for anything to keep their place. President Draghi, this morning we of Brothers of Italy listened to you with the attention of always, because we have the respect of the institutions. But it was immediately very obvious - and it doesn't need to be a political commentator - that his whole speech was built to please the Democratic Party and the Left. [[Applause]] ; not a word in favour of the centre-right, its concerns and its demands. Do you know what hit me the most? Its umpteenth - because it has already said so before - promise to reform the income of citizenship. President Draghi, among other extravagant things of your majority, there is another one that you certainly know: there is a party, not the largest but one of the noisiest, which deposited in the cassation the request for a referendum to repeal the income of citizenship, that is a measure that voted one, two, three, four times; when it was worth 9 billion, 10 billion, 11 billion. Citizenship income - we repeat this concept - is discrimination: those who believe in citizenship income cannot believe in cutting the tax wedge; those who believe in the model of citizenship income cannot believe in the model that we invoke, that of responsibility, health, enterprise, commitment, sacrifice. They're two worlds that can't be together, and you want to keep them together, just for power. [[Applause]] Once again, no more lectures. We do not put Italy at risk. We Italy have it in our heart: it is written in our manifestos and in the reason for being Brothers of Italy. What is at risk is not Italy, but a system of power that the Democratic Party has built since November 2011, when they kicked Berlusconi out of this Parliament. Since then this system of power has been stronger and more and more ramified and puts in place all the instruments that it has, no one excluded, to preserve itself. It pains me to see that even in the centre-right, in Parliament and in the regions, there is someone who does not understand the game: if you are functional to this system of power, you suddenly become intelligent, kind, sympathetic; if instead you fight to assert a different principle, an alternative, you immediately become stupid and dangerous. And that's enough of the barbarian fake news on the doorstep. We have started with responsible people, we govern municipalities and regions also very complex and also very advanced. We have demonstrated our seriousness in foreign policy - as Mr La Russa also said in his speech - when we sided with Italy, the European Union, NATO and Ukraine. It could have cost us so much in terms of election, but we did it spontaneously, because that's exactly what we think it's right to do. Finally, President Draghi, I want to tell you something else. I don't know if you're interested, but I really don't believe in the sincerity of your friends and allies. Those who applauded her this morning applauded her only out of fear; they were the same ones who boycotted her the day she went up to the Quirinale. [[Applause]] They are people who praise you in public and betray you in private. We do exactly the opposite: we are people who say publicly what they think even privately. If she succeeds in putting together the pieces of what remains of her majority, she does not deceive herself: they will come back to fight, to make the traps, to put her in trouble until the next ambush, because they love to play on the skin of Italy. Mr President, Brothers of Italy certainly, as he did not vote for the first trust in the yellow-green government (failure), trust in the second government, the yellow-red government (failed and we had foreseen it), confidence in the third rainbow government (failed also this), will not give you confidence even today. And we will do it without tactics, with an open face, with the clarity and consistency of all time. We want to stay away from his false friends, from his false allies, from the false love of Homeland, from the false sense of responsibility, from a Parliament dominated by the fear of the vote that thinks only to survive. We work for a new government, serious, strong and also responsible; yes, responsible, because we are serious people, and I want to reiterate that. But this government is not what the thousand mayors of the Democratic Party decide, but it is what millions of Italians decide on election day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u107	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, when a year and a half ago the need, at the request of the President of the Republic of Mattarella, to be able to build a majority, and therefore to give life to a government without a political formula, but - as someone called it - of national unity, we responded to that appeal. You see, President Draghi, for people like us, with our political history, it was absolutely neither easy nor simple, but we did it - as we said to you in the various talks - not generically for the good of the country, but because you looked forward to very serious and precise programmatic commitments, so not only to get out of the pandemic and try to get the country back on its feet, to give it a perspective, but also to act on two other issues that - to be honest - we considered and consider absolutely crucial. One of these is what someone called ecological transition, but I, with your permission, President, would no longer call it that. I think that if our country really wants to take a serious recovery today it needs - as it needed then, but even more so today, with the crisis of drought, with the climate crisis, with the collapse of glaciers, with temperatures never seen - to embark on the path of ecological conversion. This means having very clear ideas about industrial policy. It means understanding how to get the country back on track by making a huge effort and, therefore, also grasping this great crisis as an opportunity, which is then the concept at the origin of the word crisis. She then told us that the other commitment would concern the issue of inequalities, for which our country now has a record and that with the pandemic they have grown even more. For us to address the issue of inequalities was and is a priority. I have mentioned the social issue and the ecological issue which are two sides of the same coin for us. For this reason we have always talked about being able to build a path that was right, but also able to make the country run on the path of innovation, modernity and social justice. These are the things we believed and believe in. We have had, in this majority, moments not simple, indeed complicated, but everyone has made their own contribution. We have made our contribution and I believe that we have always shown a great sense of responsibility; we have not given up our ideas, but as a child I understood that politics is above all the art of being able to find meeting points, mediations to try to make progress. Now the country is facing, once again, with the war, the energy and climate crises always present, even if we forget them, in front of major emergencies. And we have put to you, Mr President, even in today's speech, the issues we are interested in, so we have said that we are here. We must take the social crisis that we face. And we also want, Mr Draghi, that Italy does not think once again, for example, of building economic recovery and development on low wages, because we think exactly the opposite. Instead, we need to focus on innovation because others will run on it and we risk falling behind. That is why we too have put it with force, without any blackmail because we think it is right, the issue of minimum wages and - let me say this - how we deal with the issue of poverty. Mr President, you may think that we voted for citizenship income by abstaining when we were in opposition. When there was the yellow-green government we have, as always, entered into this issue and - unique on this side of the House - we have assumed the responsibility of saying: for us it is okay, we believe that it is important to separate it from the labour market and widen the audience in order to face poverty, and that is in line with Europe. We believe we have done well, as was confirmed during the pandemic. We had also given suggestions, in our little one, on how to correct and solve the problem of the transfer of credit. President Draghi, we believe in Parliament very much, and I have fought to defend parliamentary democracy, as some people here may recall. I have fought so many battles to fully defend parliamentary democracy and I demand it. In the parliamentary dialectic, no one would ever have imagined that, with the League and other parties opposed to us, we would be able to find points of contact. Yet, we had succeeded and could offer solutions. Mr President, let me say that we are convinced that this political crisis that has opened up was not only necessary, but could also be avoided. Here, too, always in an attempt to find points of encounter, one could absolutely avoid dramatization. The last few months haven't been easy. We, unlike Senator Renzi, did not then share the opening of the crisis, but we did not escape from giving our contribution to the country. In the same way, we do not stray now despite the situation, which is before everyone's eyes. Others, on the other hand, will evidently get away from all this. And we do it consistently, because we think that it is right at this time to give answers to the citizens, but not just any. The stability of a government is not in itself an end, but it is if it is able to give the answers. We are convinced that we must be able to deal with emergencies. I am also announcing that the cost of living has already increased and perhaps will continue to increase. Today we have a serious situation of suffering and we absolutely must find a way of putting instruments and measures in place. That is why we have said that the social agenda is crucial to us. I am thinking of the need to solve low wages. Senator Errani said something very right today. We must be in Europe overcoming all the gaps we have. In thirty years - and this is a European record - our country's wages have not only lost purchasing power, but have in fact also decreased. This is an emergency that should concern everyone and is the first issue to be addressed, together with the need to make the country run along the ecological conversion. Very often we have not damaged criticism, but - I see here Minister Cingolani who knows - we have always been very frank and have always made our contribution. That was the way we had to continue to follow and - I repeat - we have never shunned our responsibilities and we will not do it this time either. For these reasons, the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component will vote in favour of trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u110	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, President Draghi, Government gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in political life when party flags are to be lowered and national flags must be lowered. Today is one of those moments and not because we are trying to say it, from the benches of the Democratic Party, but because the Italian citizens have asked us these days. I say this with great force, because I read the appeals. It is true: they were all appeals to President Draghi, from many worlds, associations and categories, but they were also appeals to us, because they directly called politics into question. [[Applause]] All those worlds, all those categories, those groups, with their appeals, asked President Draghi to stay. They expressed their willingness to be at this juncture, perhaps because they did not feel represented by their representatives in Parliament, and that is precisely why they were calling politics into question. I don't want to make a list of all the appeals. There have been the mayors who - Mr Ciriani - are not from the Democratic Party, but they are the mayors with the tricolor band, who have in their heart the will to do good to their citizens and are afraid that all those projects of the PNRR will end up in the basket today. [[Applause]] They mention mayors, associations, entrepreneurs, unions, Legambiente, doctors, the National Health Service, school and university. Those appeals were made to us. Now, as someone may not have been able to read them all, I quote an appeal among the many, beautiful: the one made by the associations of the third sector of civil society. I'm saying this because - in my opinion - he really called us into question. Those associations asked all political forces to quickly find a composition of the different positions, without ignoring differences, recognizing that democracy is also non-violent conflict and that politics also has the task of crossing the conflict to find the solution. [[Applause]] Crossing the conflict, finding the solution, overcoming the bias scheme: the Democratic Party does not say so, but the citizens have asked us to do so. We are conflicting forces. We are because we belong to different groups, because every political force, of course, brings within itself the ambition to represent the interests of the most worlds and of the most possible categories. For seventeen months, however, we have tried to be together in those difficult differences, because we considered it very important to say yes to the President of the Republic, because we knew that Italy needed a Government, a Government of national unity to bring our country out of a dramatic crisis. We have tried to find solutions starting from distances that have also made that closeness almost extraordinary. It is hard for all of us to find synthesis and mediation in the deepest diversity, but we have done so in these months. We chose to put aside the individual needs of each party to really think about other needs. Look, it is the needs of our country, dictated precisely by that extraordinary era that has seen the dramatic pandemic, which is not yet over, the economic emergency, the PNRR to be realized, the war on our continent and the problems of the cost of life and energy. In these months we have worked to solve these problems and I am surprised that in the speeches that have been made here today there has been no recognition by many of these forces of the majority of the work we have done together [[Applause]] , of fatigue and work, with measures - it is true - that they have no signature of anyone, they are not ours or yours, but of all, because they are not born on one side. In fact, each has renounced something for a greater good, which was that of the country. I understand that the simplest thing is to stand in opposition: it is legitimate and I stress it. But it is the easiest way, because you take the problem, you denounce it, but you don't put anything to try to solve it, you don't put the effort and the difficulty of trying to solve it. And then it must be clear to everyone here that today those who do not confirm the confidence to this Government must tell the country to be willing to give up the 13 billion of the social decree of July and to be willing to give up the third tranche of the 22 billion of the PNRR and the urgent measures to be taken to contain the costs of the bills, to protect workers and families from inflation, to support the companies in this difficult phase of crisis, to approve the decrees necessary to conclude the reforms that we have done together, that serve to implement the PNRR, and also to launch a new budgetary maneuver. The stakes, which I hope will be clear to everyone, that in this House it is really clear and that we in the Democratic Party are clear, is that the country will pay. It is therefore necessary to take responsibility to try to work to recompose this political framework, because we are not deciding our fate and nor the electoral fates that are repeated here as a scare and threat. Elections are never a threat, but, be careful, if they are used and waved in this way, preferring to security for a country in distress the swamp and chaos of what might be the next few months. [[Applause]] We are not afraid of the vote, but we are afraid of leaving the country without a guide in the coming months, which will be very difficult. I come from the world of school, I taught history and Italian and there is a poetess who is very dear to me, Alda Merini, who said: I like who chooses carefully the words not to say. There have been many words that have not been taken care of these days and I have also listened to some of them that have criticized the policy that put responsibility at the centre and that tried to sew it up, describing it just as a fearful policy of taking on a task and a role. The politics that prefers to say that, yes, there is a man who is ruling and just wants to get behind him. We have another concept of responsibility. It is the responsibility of those who think that politics must deal with the time that each of us lives and in this difficult historical phase the Italians ask politics only one thing: solving problems. They don't want politics to cause him any problems. President. - I conclude by saying that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of confidence. The last time you were here, I had the opportunity to tell you that the picture you pictured, Chancellor Scholz and President Macron on that train was powerful and will certainly end up in the history books. Today I add that that image, which tells of a Europe that was going to take hold of another piece of Europe, which welcomed it and gave one more chance to one country to have a future within Europe, had the voice of Italy, had its voice, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, its credibility and its authority. That voice, which has done our country well within Europe, we want it to remain, because it is what Italian citizens have shown to understand very well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u113	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened with deep respect and deserved attention to your communications and reply, animated from the outset - I confess - by a feeling of expectation, hope and even trust; the same sentiment that has guided the long reflections held in these days as a centre-right government, because to the end our President Silvio Berlusconi and all of us have tried to contribute to the continuation of government action. Forza Italia has felt from the first moment the gravity of the hour. We are the ones who first created the conditions for a government of national unity to be born. Our President, Mr Berlusconi, was the first to support, seventeen months ago, the need for politics to put aside tactics, calculations and electoral interests in order to put the common good first and, as you rightly pointed out, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the exit from the pandemic, economic and social crisis. We are the ones who immediately understood that a government of national unity would not have been an easy undertaking and above all could not have been the manifesto of a political majority or a political party, but the synthesis of more sensitivity, the common denominator in which, through its leadership, through the mastic of its authority, different political forces could be found and also alternatives between them. We are those who, since the first days of formation of this Government, have given you maximum flexibility (I know you recognize it) or, to use the words of President Berlusconi, maximum autonomy in every choice and so it has been. We are the ones who worked to build, to improve, humanize measures that were not only the result of accountant calculations, but that spoke to the country of the country. We are the ones who have never failed to make a proactive contribution in the Commissions, in this House, in all the parliamentary classrooms. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, forgive us, but your note of reproach has touched on us a little, because when we insisted on some issues, we did so politely, always seeking mediation, active conviction, as in the case of no taxes on the house. We are the ones who for 55 times have renewed their trust in you and this Government, even when the final result did not fully satisfy us, because we always wanted to see the glass half full, even when maybe someone else that glass a little bit was drying it out. President, we are those who, in a situation of grave geopolitical crisis, with a war that began to knock on the doors of Europe and has become more and more a great disaster, have given you and your Government full mandate, full, to represent us in every European and international assembly, in the name of that Europeanism and Atlanticism that you have told us since your first communications, which have marked the best seasons of Italy, thanks to the firm conviction and incisive action of President Berlusconi. We are the ones who believed in this government, who believed in it and believe in it. We are - and for us it is a reason for deep pride - the responsible force that in this Government, with composure, positivity and loyalty, has sacrificed many - indeed many - identity themes, in order to live up to a commitment made with her and with the Italians. [[Applause]] , because the value of a political force is also and perhaps above all measured by the ability to respect the word given. We would have gone on with the same energy and objectives, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if the news of these days, and even more than these hours, had not overwhelmed us; we did not want the crisis, we no longer have to say it, we have told it in any way possible, but the crisis, this crisis, this Parliamentary contempt has put us in the face of questions to which we sincerely would not have thought we should give an answer, so. A political force that made up this Government, as we know, decided to snatch on a measure that did not concern you neither the Government nor us, but concerned the Italians: 20 billion dedicated to Italians, Italian families for bills, local authorities not to increase taxes, businesses to continue to produce. She said: the pact of trust that had kept us together has been shattered; it has cracked that feeling of pacification that until a moment earlier - last week - held more or less the bad mood, fatally breaking the balance that we had with conviction, albeit with difficulty, built together. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know that we have proposed to you, as you said in your communications, a new pact. We believe in a new covenant, we believe in the conductor; we do not believe in the stunned orchestrals. [[Applause]] If you propose the right score, the symphony can be beautiful. Some people think it's possible to rewind the tape of history, we don't know. Perhaps it is worth remembering how and why we have come to this point: it is not a clear skies lightning, it is not a road accident. We asked for a verification several days ago, a verification that was not a whim, but a fact of reality. In the face of an open-hearted stab wound, Forza Italia called for clarity, debate and the reasons for a new start, once again a new pact, what you called for and evoked today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but which had new foundations, and to do so before, not today, seriously, between people who feel the weight of the moment and not like a blind appointment, colleagues, in this climate of suspense, in which we do not know that it will happen or who will vote what and that it creates even more damage than it did - I repeat - the contempt of last week. I believe, Mr President, that the crisis should be politicised, but really. Today's confidence may have been built on other assumptions. We have tried to propose a new pact, which we have enunciated in our resolution as a centre-right government, which, unfortunately, has fallen due to the position of trust. President, in your passionate, critical and certainly sincere speech - you are not lacking in sincerity - we have felt a reproach towards the centre-right, which has left us frankly perplexed. We didn't look for the meal, Mr. President, believe me; the canvas that we weave in the morning was the one that blew it, nighttime. [[Applause]] We are not the makers of political divisions that have caused fractures and then remain firmly anchored in the political places in which they were located, even if we do not vote for the trust of the government of belonging. We are not the ones of the "without conditions," we are not the ones of the aut aut, we are not the ones of the identity flags and we have said it: we have made many waivers. We have not polluted the climate - not us! - proposing divisive themes. I know it is not your responsibility, Mr President-in-Office, or your Government. These are parliamentary issues, but we cannot ignore the impact these parliamentary issues have on the reports and reports of the majority in government. [[Recalls of the President]] I would still have a lot to say, Mr President-in-Office, but the time is quite right: ten minutes, like everyone else. The Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC, whom I honour to represent, has lived with me these days and these hours, in which a crisis has been consumed which, we repeat for the umpteenth time, was neither wanted, nor caused, nor provoked by Forza Italia: let it be clear! [[Applause]] I would like to thank each senator for having accompanied us in this extreme sewing work, conducted under the wise guidance of President Berlusconi. I would like to thank the whole centre of government: until the end - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know - we are looking for a window, we have put on the table of the debate an exit strategy that would have comforted us in our decision to continue this common path, a mediation solution, which unfortunately has not been heard. With bitterness, but with the tranquillity of those who can say loudly that they have attempted to the end, the Forza Italia Group of the Senate will not participate in the vote on the confidence placed by the Government only on the motion for a resolution of Senator Casini. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u116	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Draghi, we expected a great deal from your reply and regret that there has been little room for that Italy which is outside this House, which needs answers and which is looking for them from the Government, which is the main reason why we have made ourselves available to this Government. It is therefore regrettable that, in his brief reply, he has found no room for VAT matches, for traders, who have been closed for two years, for businesses, who still face too high a labour cost, not to mention the cost of energy, fishermen and agriculture... [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, it is hard for you to listen to the real things, we know that, but this is the real Italy, the one outside this House. [[Applause]] , which has to deal with the costs of fuel, that of the students, who still wait today for the guidelines for the aeration in the schools, that they are forced to DAD. That of the workers, Mr Draghi, who have to face a dear life and a dear bills that have no equal. That of the families and also that of the taxi drivers, Mr Draghi, who are not the scoundrels described in this morning's speech [[Applause]] , because it is part of the burden of politicians to listen also to dissent, especially when it is expressed by those who work honestly. We regret that there has been no room for this, but there has been some controversy with the Movimento 5 Stars, even if we do not blame them here, because it has been pulled into these polemics. We would have liked to hear about solutions for the debitory records that our fellow citizens, affected by the crisis, are no longer able to pay. We would have liked to have had words of certainty about uncontrolled immigration, which continues to land on our shores. [[Applause]] Maybe it is difficult, even in this case, the Democratic Party to remember that we are already at 34,000 landings, that last year there were 26,000 and the year before 9,000, so with a growing that seems infinite, perhaps because of the inability to manage who should do it, like the Minister of the Interior. [[Applause]] We would have liked a thought for Lampedusa and for our border lands, which too often felt at the margins of government action. We would have liked to hear words for our cities, which have the suburbs and also their inhabited center, unfortunately, too often prey to violent and delinquents, often foreigners, too often foreigners. [[Applause]] We regret not having heard words for the mayors, not only those few who have signed appeals, perhaps even oriented, but for all the mayors of Italy, those who have to settle the accounts [[Applause]] , but they can't do it for unaccompanied minors [[Applause]] , or those who have to take on the social security contributions, without having a hand from the State. President Draghi, we know that there are many problems, but it is certainly part, once again, of the burden of politicians to take on their shoulders even what they do not like, not just what they like. It is certainly true that there are at least three interests at stake in this game: your personal interest, for which, Mr President, we thank you, because honestly, even in the light of what you have been subjected to in these hours, we ask you who made you do it; there is the interest of your majority and here we would have liked not to have in front of the image of children and stepchildren, but to have in you a figure that would take care of all its majority, not one party yes and another no. We would have liked to hear about Italy's interest, but maybe it is difficult and annoying to talk about Italy's interest. We take note of that. At this point, we must also say "down the mask," because it is evident that everything has been shipwrecked on the inconsistencies of the Movimento 5 Stars, which within this majority - as we had already experienced in the first Conte Government - has put only fibrillations on fibrillations. [[Applause]] And don't think you can afford not even the minister Di Maio, who gave the example of who betrayed himself; maybe he didn't deny his parents, but everything he had said in the years of politics behind him denied it. [[Applause]] He did so by coming out of the Movimento 5 Stars, betraying any political position and constituting himself a crutch outside the rules he had given himself. Everything should be done in the interest of the country: it is that interest that we have always followed, because it is not the interest of the country to be behind the house change and this is a Parliament that has all too often characterized itself for the change of clothes and the problem is in here, in the instability of a majority that is given nothing but by the change of clothes and the lack of political quality in those who composed it. We have always behaved loyally, we have voted for everything that the Draghi Government has asked the League to vote for the good and the interest of Italy, but not so did the other majority forces. We have seen what has happened to the House over the past few weeks, when the Democratic Party has submitted the majority to yet another fibrillation, putting on the agenda a debate on cannabis and the approval of draft laws for easy citizenship. This does not mean giving stability to the majority, this means putting it into fibrillation. [[Applause]] We, Mr Draghi, want to thank the Ministers who have worked hard, the Ministers of the League, whom we have made available to you, finding that loyalty to which you referred in your reply. We thank Minister Giorgetti, Minister Stefani, Minister Garavaglia and all the Subsecretaries that the League has made available to its Government and who have been able to know in their competence and loyalty. [[Applause]] Probably the same can not be said of Ministers like that of the interior, Lamorgese, or the minister Hope, that all Italians have learned to know because of their inadequacy to the institutional role to which they had been appointed. [[Applause]] The loyalty of the League Ministers has never failed in every day of the Government, as has the loyalty of the League. We, Mr Draghi, have taken note of your reference to parliamentary democracy, but here is the problem: as I said, a Parliament made up of transformers, fueled by the diaspora of the 5 Stars, is not able to guarantee government action the stability that is needed and necessary. The problem is not you, which is a figure of guarantee and stability, but that part of majority, starting from the Movimento 5 Stars and the Democratic Party, which created only fibrillations during this path. [[Applause]] The action of this Government cannot be based on unreliability. Unfortunately, we are well aware of the picnic to which the statements submitted it, which we have learned from the press, from Conte, Grillo and De Masi, those nasty figures of conversations told, a grammatical thing that must not be done among serious people. Here, this is the ugly image projected outside and in function of this too we have recalled it today: there needs to be a group of government made by serious people, President Draghi, and we are here to guarantee this seriousness [[Applause]] But you can't go on saying that nothing happened and that's okay, Madame Marquise. We have to bear the burden of clarity on issues, priorities and respect for government action that cannot be put at the mercy of the stalemate. He is sorry that he has listened to the bad advice of the Democratic Party, imposing confidence on a motion for a resolution that says nothing more than to approve the President's communications without adding anything else. We, Mr President, had tabled a very comprehensive motion for a resolution, which gives the idea of our renewed commitment and which said that the League is available, like the centre-right of government, to continue to contribute to solving Italy's problems, with a Government, however, profoundly renewed in relation to the political guidelines and its composition. I am sorry that this resolution has not been chosen. I am sorry that this puts us in a position not to participate in the vote for the confidence imposed on the motion for a resolution, not by chance, signed by Senator Casini. [[Applause]] What the country needs is not stalemate, but clarity. What we're here to tell you, President Draghi is: do not be a prisoner of the Democratic Party's and the 5 Stars' blackmail. [[Comments.]] If necessary, make a new Government, made by the League and with whom else will want to give its contribution with enthusiasm; otherwise, give the word to the Italians, because they choose the majority that must govern the country and resolve the problems. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u119	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, President Draghi, you resigned on Thursday not because the majority of national unity had failed, but because you felt that by not participating in the vote in fact we were distrusting the Government. Actually, that very vote on Thursday certified that the majority was there and was absolute here in the Senate as well. In fact, President Mattarella refused that resignation. Today, President Draghi, you confirmed that that resignation was a due act. It is then necessary to tell the citizens well what has happened in these two months. It was on 2 May when we did not take part in the vote in the Council of Ministers on the so-called decree-law aid, because it was an insufficient measure to meet the needs of families and businesses, because it contained no effective response to unblock the sale of the superbonus credits and no measure of contrast to expensive prices and expensive energy, and because it contained a completely foreign rule, which provided for the construction of an incinerator. Since 2 May we have worked, as always, constructively to improve that text, but none of our proposals have been accepted, nothing. And so that decree, consistently, we did not vote for it in the Council of Ministers, we did not vote for it in the House and we did not vote for it here in the Senate, but we did not vote against it, but we did not vote for it until Thursday morning, asking all political forces not to put yet another question of trust. It should also be remembered, Mr President, that in these eighteen different months there have been circumstances in which other political forces have not shared government measures. [[Applause]] The League has not voted the decrees on the green pass, Italy Viva has not voted on the reform Cartabia, several times the entire center right has voted against the opinions of the Government. If others abstain or vote against, that's fine; but if we don't take part in a vote, there is a crisis. [[Applause]] In your speech, President, you also mentioned the genesis of this Government, which was born to counter three emergencies (the pandemic, the economic and the social), and stressed that a high-profile Government should not identify with any political force. Let me stress, Mr President, that a high-profile government should not even stand up to a political force, as has been done. [[Applause]] In fact, in these eighteen months, all our measures have been dismantled and even today in this House there has been no mention of the previous government and of those 209 billion euros that that government has obtained and that are the instrument that will finally allow to modernize a country that has been stationary for decades. Even that 6.6 percent of GDP in 2021 to which you referred is the result of the expansionary measures of the Conte II Government. [[Applause.]] You see, Mr President, the democratic legitimacy that you call for for for this Commission and the generosity that you call for from the majority forces that support it must also go through the recognition of the merits and the contribution that each political force has made in recent months. [[Applause]] I can say with certainty that this generosity and the willingness to build and find a synthesis to my Group has never been lacking. It was not lacking when our Government, which had already resigned, continued to work to complete the PNRR; It was not lacking when we supported the birth of this Executive and we supported the Government while the center-right voted against; it was not lacking when, in the competition law, we strongly supported the Government's choice to renew the bathing concessions after sixteen years of immobilism. [[Applause]] You are well aware, Mr President, that if we have achieved all the objectives set by the PNRR, as you said, if we have reached an agreement that would enable us to close the tax delegation law, the reform of the procurement code, the reform of justice, the competition law, it is mainly thanks to the support of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] The mutual respect you call for is at the very heart of today's debate. Asking to put themes that are no longer procrastinable on the political agenda cannot be read as a need for distinction, President, allow me. In this House we bring the voice of the citizens and, if we represent the urgencies of families and businesses, it is because there is a country that calls for attention to these problems. We have read the appeals for the government to move forward and we are actually surprised that this government at such a dramatic time has called into question the move forward. However, I assure you, Mr President, that the heroes of the pandemic you mentioned, who subscribe to one of the letters addressed to you, are still asking for the compensation for nurses to be released, blocked by the budget law of 2020. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The heroes of the pandemic that you mentioned are the same operators of the 118 to whom in budget law the government did not recognize the bonus that we had given to the operators of the first aid or the same insecure health care that we have not stabilized yet, despite having worked during the Covid. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] His speech today has assimilated the will of political forces to put relevant themes to a growing need for distinction. Moreover, its legitimization of the lack of dialectic and the lack of involvement of Parliament, almost as if it were the only way a government has to work, and to ask this House for a sort of blank delegation mortifies our role and that of our parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] To say that we need a real social agenda, but not to talk about precarious; to say that minimum wages are a medium-term objective, when wages are an emergency today, because they are the lowest in Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] to say that the income of citizenship has negative effects on the labour market, therefore in fact to support the shameful polemics that imply that all the recipients of income are sloppy, it is an offense to the dignity not of this political force, but of the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A few weeks ago I received a letter from a young woman, one of the many people who write to us to tell us how the income of citizenship changed their lives. This young woman of forty-two years, graduate, with a PhD and a stay abroad, told me how only thanks to the income of citizenship today manages to maintain a daughter and to live in Italy after a separation. President Draghi, we asked you on what basis to build the government pact with altruism and how you intended to guarantee the conditions of loyal cooperation. We have presented you with a document which is a real political agenda. Today we note that the idea for which the confidence pact has failed, which you have already announced, is actually also shared by the other majority forces that want the 5 Star Movement to be outside this Government. You have not answered our questions and you have ignored an essential issue that we also raised to you. Some of the political forces have continued to attack us, placing as a condition that our political strength remains outside this majority. We knew that our social agenda and our progressive battles were the scare of the center-right and we had the confirmation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These positions oblige us to take note that we are the problem. There are minimum conditions of loyal collaboration and respect, which involve the dignity of a political force and its battles. But we want to reassure the citizens that we will always be there when it comes to discussing and adopting useful measures. We will continue our battles here in Parliament as far as we can, but above all in the country, close to those who suffer, those who have no voice, those who do not count and those who do not have guarantees. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For these reasons, we do not vote on trust. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u121	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u122	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I will not vote for trust in the Draghi Government because the parties that support it contributed, in fact, to the collapse of the country's economy; because the vote of confidence in this Government is a vote of the banks and for the banks; because, after giving citizens the conditional bonus, this Government asked those same citizens if they preferred air conditioning or peace. I will not vote for confidence because, after giving incentives to electric cars, this government has declared that we risk not having enough energy to illuminate the streets and the premises in the evening: and here we are delirious. I will not vote for confidence because, for this Government, the only solution to achieving peace is the continuous sending of weapons; because the Draghi Government has ensured that doctors who are not aligned are suspended or even disbarred, taking away from health the same funds that today miraculously reappear for weapons. Also, because this government, first suspended perfectly healthy teachers who did not want to submit to the obligation of a vaccine covered by military secrecy, and then reinstated them, but demersonated them: a shame! The use of dust masks was imposed on children in schools, while the President of the Council was able to circulate in the same schools without a gag. I will not vote for confidence because in Geneva, WHO headquarters, they still wonder why it is carnival in Italy, since they have abandoned the masks indoors for a long time also on buses and trams; because this Government, on the one hand, asks for the rationing of water to the citizens, but on the other it allocates 144 million euros for the breeders, well aware that, for every kilo of meat in your dishes, 10,000 liters of water are consumed on average. Because the "vairus," so defined by a minister, travels by train, but stops in Como, since, after crossing the border, from Chiasso onwards the same passengers on the same train can safely continue without masks and spend a day at Lake Lugano. Attention, however: on the return, the "Vairus" goes back to the station Como San Giovanni and is there waiting for them. I won't vote for trust because: you don't get shot, you get sick, you die; but if you don't get shot, you don't get sick and you don't die, the government fines you because you're still alive. If he had been Italian, they would have fined Novak Djokovic, guilty of being alive enough to have won Wimbledon's seventh trophy. I will not vote for trust in the Draghi Government because Italian citizens deserve a Government that supports them and helps them, not with a supermarket bonus, but with choices of internal and international politics that also allow young people to have a more certain future, which today seems to be a privilege for few.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u124	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u125	NUGNES (Misto-Man.A Pap PRc-Se). Mr President, Draghi's speech shows that there is an act against the interests of the Italian people and in favour of multinationals and finance in general, which absorbs but does not produce wealth: Paolo Maddalena, Vice President emeritus of the Constitutional Court. I do not agree, as some colleagues have said, that democracy is in crisis, because the crisis is always an opportunity, a moment of reflection from which we can start again. Unfortunately, I fear that democracy is in grave danger of life and that we are on the final lines, with this attack on Parliament, this continuous blackmail under the scare of the umpteenth emergency of the PNRR funds, of the reforms, however they are, and of those funds from which we have not managed to get coverage for the people with disabilities 100% who have lost their citizenship income. Now the system also attacks constitutional rights such as education, health and common goods with sale and privatisation. We're just at the last picks of the audience. The attack we are experiencing is nothing but the death of our democracy. But I have no confidence in what will happen tomorrow, whether it be October or the beginning of 2023, because this Parliament will most likely end up in the hands of a right-wing majority, reduced to numbers, as you all wanted and, without even a change in the electoral law, as had been planned, it can be put in the hands of a few. And those few will be able, without even passing through the popular vote, to change our Constitution definitively. What do I hope for, then? I hope that the people can unite and see, see and unite and finally come to a real change. Too many times we have been close to each other and have failed too many times, but we will not fail forever. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u127	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u128	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, after the stumbling block on Latin, Mario Draghi has not recovered even the sense of another symbolic word, a Greek word, hybrid, tracotanza, pride. The pride with which he has faced a crisis of government since extraordinarily dilated times, not a road map, not a confrontation with the forces that have supported him in Parliament. It has become strong of a kind of popular acclamation made of fake sanctifying squares, an acclamation accompanied by the letter of 2,000 mayors who, without even passing through the municipal councils, have paid homage to the new king. But the true endorsement came from those who had put Dragons there; Governments of other countries, international finance, third parties, in short his friends. That hybrid that blinds him, as he has shown even now with yet another vote of confidence on the resolution presented by Senator Casini that Italexit will not vote. His reply was quick and superb, because when you can't weave the delicate thread of parliamentary dialectic you just have to claim degrees by now faded. And finally, the merit of your speech today: do you really think you can deal with that list of emergencies in eight months? There are two cases; either you bluffed or you show up because you suffer from a worrisome delusion of omnipotence. He said he wanted to write down yet another pension reform. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Paragon, you don't need to use these terms. You're gonna watch this. PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Once again it is up to pensioners to pay the price of the crisis to raise the minimums without touching the rest; just say so, simply. But you did not say that because you want to hit pensioners, as the Fornero did on your recommendation. The autopilot reforms, remember? By the way you met Uber, but not the taxi drivers; indeed you spoke of them as violent street agitators. He spoke three times of bathing as an urgency in the name of liberalization. Three times the word bathing and once the word mafia. There are no real Mafia filters in the PNRR if you have to explain it. He spoke of the reform of the land register that, as everyone has understood, will be a way to tax a little more the house because if you do not make the budget deviation, sooner or later you will go and ask the Italians, who are already paying too much for your inability. How much Greece I see in your speech today, President Draghi, austerity and social injustice; that is your belief. And what about his subalternity to an atlantism that cannot be called into question at all because otherwise one passes as a villain? But I say to her that every extra weapon you send to Ukraine is one day less invested in the search for peace. He said he was only here because the Italians asked him; if he really believes it, try the drunkenness of the elections. Put your face on it at least once in your life. If you want to be a leader, prove it in the field. The time of the nominations is over, it's time to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u130	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u131	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, each of us is a victim of the education he has received or, in some cases, has not received. I have been taught that politics is a serious thing, that institutions are an even more serious thing than politics. [[Applause]] and that when politics is weak, the state in danger and society is going through a phase of great difficulty, it is the duty of those who make politics to lower the party flags, to create the tricolour, to tighten together in the general interest. This is what I have always tried to do to date, and that is what I will continue to do, even though I realize that we are living in an unhappy phase, where demagogy has completely eaten politics. This is not only because of the desires of the Movimento 5 Stars, who believes that they are turning a virginity into opposition, not only because of that part of the Democratic Party which continues to look at the Movimento 5 Stars and Giuseppe Conte as a reference point and which inserts into the parliamentary dynamic identity issues that have not approved when there were center-left majorities, now claiming that they are approved by majorities of broad understanding. This is not only because of Matteo Salvini's approach to politics, which I contested when he had 30% and which, of course, I continue to challenge today, even if with less force because he starts at 10%. The opposition, the party of Giorgia Meloni, does its job: it is normal for the opposition to wish the country's collapse. I don't speak of my party as a matter of style. But I think we've voted for the Dragon Government 55 times. I listened to the speech that Draghi President of the Council made to this House; I heard him say that he will cut taxes on work, that he will support the purchasing power of families, that he will reform the procurement code, that he will make new regasifiers, that he will change the income of citizenship, that he will reform the basic medicine; I also heard about differentiated autonomy. In my opinion, these are useful things for the country as well as largely compatible with a center-right culture, so there is no new political fact. There is no political fact that justifies a change of vote on my part at least. [[Applause]] I voted for confidence 55 times, I will vote for it on fifty-sixth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u132	Pursuant to Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote on the motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Casini, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. (Brusio). Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Gallone is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Gallone. (Senator Secretary Margiott makes the appeal.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal to motion for resolution No 2 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 192 Senators voting 133 Majority 67 Favorables 95 Contrars 38]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the motion for a resolution No 2 has been adopted, it is not possible to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1. This concluded the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 8.11 p.m. and resumed at 8.26 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u133	The Conference of Leaders has established that the day of tomorrow will be reserved for the work of the Commissions on the decree-infrastructure law. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday, 26 July, at 4.30 p.m., on the President's agenda. We referred to the infrastructure decree-law because it is the most urgent one, but it is clear that all the Commissions can be brought together.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u134	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-454.ana.u135	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 26 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.26 a.m.
