ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2562, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the general discussion took place and the Government put the question of trust in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2562, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 14 of 25 February 2022 into the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u4	Madam President, I take the opportunity to speak for these five minutes, making it clear that unfortunately with the conversion of this decree-law will be approved and certified that agenda approved by the House which starts the increase in military expenditure by 2% of GDP. In my opinion, it is time to make a very serious reflection on this Government too, because that agenda is valid and has been approved by the whole majority. Unfortunately, the Government will be able to take note of this in the drafting of the DEF, within which, however, will be indicated also the whole path of debt reduction, spending review. Already in the budget documents - for example - more revenue has been indicated, taking it from small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with compliance, for a further 12 billion per year. Almost 40% of small businesses are no longer able to pay off their debts, and this has happened since the end of last year, when they begged, by all the productive fabric, for a budgetary deviation. Yet, this is not the case, because Draghi still claims to reduce the debt. In the face of all this, there is talk of increased military spending. Instead of making a real battle for a European army to redeploy, rationalise and reduce spending on military spending, one increases or accepts the warm cloth of spreading in comfortable installments, at the expense of the Italians, those who will then still be 12 billion euros more in regime. I wanted to specify this, because it is a very serious matter. The measure also provides for a derogation for the opening of coal-fired power stations and, therefore, I would like to highlight another aspect. Draghi said he was surprised at the reason why, since 2014, Russian addiction has increased. Yet, it should ask Viva Italy to account for this which, together with the Letta and Monti Governments, has facilitated fossil fuels, decreasing renewable installations by up to 92 percent. Today we would need more than 10 billion cubic metres less if we had maintained the path implemented between 2008 and 2013. They should apologize to the Italians, while now they are all happy for the new pipelines, the new gas and the new dependencies that also come from Azerbaijan, but failing to say that that country, a few weeks before the aggression of Russia, had entered into an agreement with Moscow to subordinate more exports to the West to Putin's will. But that is not said. It is indecent and scandalous, rather than insist on renewables, to think more about complying with an agreement (the one with NATO for the increase of up to 2% is, in fact, an agreement and not a treaty). The pandemic showed all the fragility of our country: from health care, to education, to local public transport. Yet, instead of affecting more current spending on increasing teachers' salaries and eliminating or at least lowering - at last - the precariousness of researchers, one focuses on an issue such as increasing military spending. Even if in Count I and Count II governments that expenditure has been increased, after the pandemic it has turned out to be another world, which must induce us to review all past understandings and ask for a decrease of such expenses through their rationalization. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u5	Mr President, today the Alternative represents a large part of the Italian people who do not want to send weapons or increase military spending. Instead, the government continues to foment hatred and war, while it should promote peace initiatives. President Draghi, in particular, more than a grandfather at the service of the institutions appears a grandfather at the service of war, just like his counterpart Biden. Deserving grandson of these two warrior arzilli is the Foreign Minister Di Maio, who more than a five-star minister looks like a star and striped minister. The Alternative will not follow you in this policy of war and will vote no to this umpteenth confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u6	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u9	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, since this is a debate on international politics, as well as being obviously linked to trust in the Government, let me begin my speech with a thought addressed to a great expert in international politics, a great friend of many of us and a professional who honored the profession of journalism, which is Franco Venturini, who failed yesterday. [[Applause]] I am very pleased that the Senate, with this applause, addresses him a greeting and also a thank you. We are naturally linking trust with the Draghi Government, which the Group for the Autonomies will vote firmly, to a measure that - just because there are no misunderstandings - sums up in its fundamental points: the transfer of military equipment, equipment and equipment to Ukraine, the nation that has been attacked; the strengthening of the NATO device in the area; emergency measures in relation to energy supplies; the reception of refugees and measures in favour of companies that export to Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. The merits of this measure are difficult to argue with. A controversy has arisen - in my opinion it was the classic storm in a glass of water - on the subject of the increase in military expenditure, which will also be contained in the next measures and not in this, following an agenda that the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy had presented. We have voted in favour of that agenda and I would like to say to my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy that their position and the management of this agenda is an honour to them, because, being a force of opposition, they have made a positive contribution that is free of political controversy. At this time, so delicate for the fate of humanity, Europe and Italy, they have made an effort of national unity. I consider it a test of maturity for all, majority and opposition. I also think - and I must say this with some bitterness - that certain tones that have been heard in the majority these days are more indicative of electoral expectations than from lucid political analyses. [[Applause]] Colleagues, the facts are clear: in 2014 Russia illegally annexed Crimea. In the following months he occupied and, in fact, illegally annexed part of the Donbass region. Many hoped that this would be the end of the dispute between Russia and Ukraine and that Putin would be satisfied with the result achieved. Maybe I was among those too - I want to be honest - because the others didn't hope for it, but we all hoped for it. The West turned its head on the other side. History will explain and vote on our attitude, but today I'm just photographing the situation. After a few years, none of us, just a few months ago, would have thought about the possibility of action on Ukrainian territory, with thousands of tanks pointing to Kiev or Lviv. That, ladies and gentlemen, has happened. Let's open our eyes. Seeing the political debate these days, I have the feeling that someone has taken dazzles and continues to pervicaciously want to keep their eyes closed. It is disputed that we supply defence weapons, such as NATO countries, to Ukraine. Colleagues, but our Republic was born on the Resistance and the fight against fascism. [[Applause]] We fought and honored, with the gold medals to military valor, the resistances who fought, evidently with weapons, not with words, against the Nazis who occupied Italy and against the fascists who had perched in Salò. All this is part of the painful history of a people and also of a tragic spread that has broken families within the national soil, to the point that in the last few years it has been possible to reach a shared memory and a unified evaluation of these facts. Compared to the drama that Ukrainians are experiencing and the lonely children who are fleeing, I am terrified by the possibility of trafficking, abuse or trade in children, such as women. Unfortunately, this is a permanent risk to the exodus of thousands of people fleeing their homes and seeking shelter in neighbouring countries, to which we must bow, colleagues. In the last few months we have had many disputes with Poland, because we saw some attitudes that we did not like, but the Poles are extraordinary! In their cities hundreds of thousands of people are coming from Ukraine and are hosted by families. Europe is also doing its best in this matter, and I believe that at this juncture we must have a sense of history. Many times the most dramatic facts also cause good and in this case the good is that we have awakened and that Europe today understands how dramatically Alcide De Gasperi was right - whose memories were the jealous guardian of Mrs Maria Romana, who died just in recent days - to say that they wanted a community of defence and a common foreign policy. The Trentino statesman said that Europe cannot have only a monetary or economic soul, but must also have a political dimension and a political heart. [[Applause]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of this and it is to be moved to see that the Ukrainians at the heart of their negotiations, accepting not to put their candidacy to NATO, are asking to be part of the European family, because their culture, history and their path lead them to want a destiny shared with us. This is all happening, and we should pretend we don't understand? Someone wonders why increase military spending today. This is because unfortunately our analysis of Putin was wrong and we were deluded that it was possible to go ahead by implementing military spending, as the Conte Government, in a way that was not particularly vibrant, has done, but unfortunately there have been facts today. If we look at reality, these facts lead us to clear attitudes. I would like to conclude my speech, Mr President, with one consideration. Guns or re-arms for what, to offend? Why do Italy and NATO plan to invade a country? Weapons serve to maintain a balance that leads to peace because, if you want to prepare for peace, you must be ready to face the snare and prevent dictators on the margins of Europe from being tempted, in the presence of a military imbalance, to do what they have done in Ukraine. Colleagues, it is a bitter reality, but the sense of responsibility that politics has is to secularly assume its own decisions, even when they are painful. For this reason, the Group for Autonomies strongly votes for the trust of the Dragon Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u12	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I believe that Italian policy sometimes loves to hurt itself and loves to convey the worst of itself, even when it unites and transversally adopts important and positive measures, such as the one we are going to vote on this morning. A citizen who had not read the text of Decree-Law No 14 of 2022, with urgent provisions on the crisis in Ukraine, from the public, television and journalistic debate, but also from the debate held in this Chamber, would have to think that he was facing a government and parliamentary majority forces, present in the Senate and also in the House, of mad war-makers, who want to arm themselves to the teeth to fight the Russians and who, in order to finance the weapons and the army, are willing to starve the people in order to get the result. This is the narration that demagogues and populists want to make in this country. Italians who have not had the opportunity to read the decree-law do not know that instead the provision has a whole other story, another narration, opposite to the one told. There are, yes, Articles 1 and 2, which provide for a better strengthening and organization of our presence on the East side of the Alliance. There is also provision for the transfer to the government authorities of Ukraine free of charge of non-lethal military means and equipment of protection (a measure then updated with Article 2-a, which provides, subject to our authorisation, the transfer of military means, materials and equipment that serve Ukrainian resistance to defend against aggression). However, there is also Article 3, which provides for assistance and cooperation in favour of the Ukrainian population. There is article 4, which guarantees greater security to our embassies exposed to danger, given Ukrainian tensions. And yet there is Article 5, which provides for greater security for our fellow countrymen abroad in an emergency situation. This decree-law also deals with energy and gas, encouraging the use of renewables. There is support for companies that have invested in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia in recent years. Finally, Mr President, measures are envisaged to encourage the reception of Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war. All we are talking about when we refer to this decree-law is the issue of 2% on military spending, but it does not fit into it. There was an agenda, approved by the House by an overwhelming majority, with the vote of the Movimento 5 Stars and all the political forces of majority and opposition, which simply provides for compliance with the commitments made with NATO and with international organisations. In the meantime, however - contrary to what Senator Casini said, who spoke of storm in a glass of water almost casually - I think we wanted to set up a movie set to show a movie completely out of reality, starting from the reading of the polls. Simply see today's Newspaper, which reports, printed on the front page, the percentage of Italians who would be against higher military spending. We started from there to say that we had opposed to a greater investment in military spending, even building, always in this film, the fact that we remove those resources to other interventions that would have been useful to face the economic and social crisis present in our country. Therefore, in the midst of the economic crisis, in the midst of a crisis of security on our continent and in the midst of a social crisis, there are those who think of the crisis of government and there are those who think of building propaganda around a sad situation and that puts us in conditions of enormous difficulty. I believe that no one would ever have wanted to have a parliamentary debate to organize a country that has to manage its security, endangered by a war that is two hours away from Milan. I believe that we need responsibility on the part of the political forces. I believe that we need to avoid any propaganda, despite the fact that the elections are approaching, and show responsibility for facing this crisis together, as we will do by approving this measure, which will be voted on by the vast majority of Members. Even more, the commitments we are talking about with NATO we have recognized transversally to be valid and over the years we have demonstrated it with concrete facts, because from the 2014 declaration so many Governments have passed: the Renzi government in Warsaw has confirmed the commitment of 2% on military expenses; the Conte government twice, in 2018 and 2019, has confirmed those commitments, increasing the military expenditure from 21 to 24.6 billion euros, rightly, because the commitments are respected and because the defense of our country must be entrusted not to others, but to ourselves and the international commitments that we take with others. Finally, the commitment was confirmed in 2021 by the Draghi Government. Therefore, opening a debate on this issue is truly surreal and also propagandistic. We must respect international commitments, because we are serious people and we are a country that builds its credibility on commitments, and then because I believe that respect for commitments will make us protagonists in the necessary peace process that will have to be triggered as soon as possible. Our country and Europe must not be marginal. Military spending will have to be provided with the DEF, and not with this measure; we will have to check how much and how, and we will compare there. But the issue that bothers me a lot - I also felt it in the speeches at the end of the general discussion - is the idea that these resources are being used to arm the country by removing them from unemployment benefits, hospitals or schools. In populist rhetoric we try to pass this message, while with those resources we would pay - I would explain it to anyone who does not know the subject or know it and pretend not to know it - 170,000 soldiers and 20,000 civilians who deal with our security (we have lost 40,000 in the last ten years). Then there are investments in industry (only 1,100 people employed in Novara for the realization of the F-35) and on cybersecurity. Security investments don't go to a laundry bucket where they get lost, but they serve the country and our security. Mr President, no one is supporting a violent arms race, but we must equip ourselves with instruments for a common European foreign and defence policy and give NATO more instruments. We all say that, but then, when we have to put the measures in place, there's the escape. Libya, Syria, Afghanistan and Ukraine are alarm bells. How many more must play to understand that we need to take action on our security and better organise the European Union's action? Peace is a priority for all democrats, but nobody can cover their eyes and not realize that there is war, and security becomes a strategic theme for our economy too. You cannot work for peace without having effective security tools. Mr President, of course we will not turn off the megaphone of these demagogues hoping for their responsibility. We will only turn off the megaphone if Europe and Italy put in place measures to deal with the economic emergency. It will be necessary to put a roof at the cost of gas and predict a new recovery, that assists the countries most penalized by this crisis. As usual, Italy is among those countries because of its dependence on gas and, therefore, we will have to anticipate this intervention. In conclusion, we vote with conviction on the bill of conversion of the decree-law to our examination. Democracy and freedom express universal principles that have no geographical boundaries. And those who, in the name of pseudo-pacifism, ask Ukrainians to surrender and Western countries not to provide any help to the Ukrainian resistance ask Ukrainians, in fact, to renounce democracy and freedom for fear that war may come to us and that our freedom and our democracy may be called into question. There is nothing noble in this pseudopacifism, so imbued with selfishness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u15	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the world has changed since 24 February: Russia's military aggression against Ukraine has broken a global geopolitical order and has also brought into crisis a security paradigm for the entire West. It is a war in Europe and European countries strengthen their defence and security structures, welcome - some countries more than others - Ukrainian refugees and send aid and weapons systems. In the face of the Ukrainian crisis, Europe was forced to cope with the prolonged absence of a foreign policy, the weakness of its diplomacy and the lack of a common defence force. Italian diplomacy did not play a leading role in the scenario of tension and crisis that preluded the outbreak of war. We were - let's say - quite absent and silent, but also a little marginalized in those international attempts, then failed, to find a diplomatic solution. After the outbreak of the war, the Italian Government committed itself to an important resolution, supported also by Brothers of Italy, which condemns the aggression of Russia, shares the European decision on sanctions against Russia and establishes the right of reception for Ukrainian refugees. Again, the first Ukrainian decree - we know that there will be others - is approved in the House I would say almost unanimously, however with a very large majority, with the favorable vote of Brothers of Italy: a favorable vote - be it clear - not to the Government, but to the contents of the decree; a vote, ours, which expresses the condemnation of the Russian military attack on Ukraine and its people; attack on national sovereignty, freedom, independence and the right of those people to self-determination. Our position was clear from the beginning and we have never changed it, an inevitable, inexorable choice of field: on the one hand, tanks and, on the other, the civilian population; on the one hand, the aggressor and, on the other, the attacker. And while always trusting in diplomacy, negotiations and the resolution of conflicts with international law, there are moments - like this - where there is no room for hesitation, for sophisticated distinctions and for a sort of hairy pacifism. We will never do the eulogy of war, we are terrified of it, like everyone else, and we are horrified of it, but we do not even accept - I want to be clear - those who claim the surrender of the Ukrainians as a duty. [[Applause]] Only the Ukrainian people can claim the right to surrender, just as they can be the only one to exercise their right to defend themselves and defend their national sovereignty. [[Applause]] We believe that the aggressor must rely on solidarity and support from Western democracies. I return to the decree-law, approved also with the vote of Brothers of Italy to the House: it is a consensus dictated by the Ukrainian crisis and the emergency in which we crashed. It is a decree-law that provides - I remind those who pretend to forget it today - also military aid and the participation of military personnel in the upgrading of existing NATO devices, such as - for example - the deployment of Alliance forces in the Baltic Republics, the surveillance of the Alliance's airspace, the naval surveillance device and more. As we have denounced both the House and the Senate in the Commission, trying to amend, without success, the text in this sense, in this decree-law there is no intervention to protect Italian families and businesses from expensive bills. There is no intervention, which is also present in all our amendments, on which the Budget Committee has expressed a contrary opinion, in order to support businesses and households against expensive bills. You also rejected the amendment on unaccompanied minors. [[Applause]] So we ask ourselves a lot of questions. You did not want to face the damage caused by the economic rebound of sanctions, which falls on Italy, on our trade and on our companies. Thus, while Germany decides to raise its military expenditure to the threshold of 2% of annual GDP and even to create a special fund of EUR 100 billion dedicated to arms; and while France chooses to increase its investment in security and defence, in Italy President Draghi - to be exact, at the Versailles European Council - reaffirms the respect for commitments, not binding, but still signed with allies already in 2006 - I remember - and relaunched at the Summit in Wales in 2014, i.e. those of 2% of GDP for defence expenditure. The government therefore reiterates old commitments and assumes new ones; it does so in the House on 16 March also approving an agenda linked to the decree-law on Ukraine, which commits it to progressively increase the expenses of the defence towards the goal, precisely, of 2% of GDP. Let us make it clear that we in 2020 were, in the world ranking, in 102nd place and, therefore, perhaps we should do something. The government assumes a precise posture. There are, I have here, dozens of statements, which I could of course re-emphasise, about the positions taken by the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister of Defence; but in a few days, at some point, everything changes and we are today. The Italian government is screwed on itself, it takes two steps forward and one back, it swings, it crawls. We are here without a rapporteur and - paradoxically - with the request for a vote of confidence with which, basically - let's say - more than ever the Government disowns itself. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that our agenda - for those who had not read it and had only told it - did not indicate a time period in the commitments, in which there is no "2024" written, and this is of its importance. In addition, it was asked to be consistent with what has already been said. So I come to the conclusion. Those resources are needed for barracks, equipment, training, air bases, hangars, everything that needs to be renovated in defense; they are needed for cyber challenges. That's what the expense increases are for! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues of the League, I also address you. Our choice today not to vote for trust in the Ukraine decree is easy, because you do not deserve our trust. Our choice is a must: it is called consistency. We would also have voted in the Senate, as in the House, in favour of this bill of conversion of the decree-law, if it had had a normal path, with amendments, agendas, improvements or a comparison. On the contrary, the recourse to yet another vote of confidence, on such a shared and sensitive matter, denies the Government itself that that confidence demands. Yesterday, President Ciriani and Vice President La Russa stated the contradictions contained in the request for a vote of confidence. Our choice is compulsory and easy. What I ask myself and ask you is your choice. It is more difficult for you, or at least it should be, because I wonder what vote of confidence you are expressing. For which government do you vote for trust, you who are such diverse forces? Which Government are you trusting? To the Government that accepted, without rewording it, the incriminating agenda of Brothers of Italy (and yet it is history)? Or to the government of Minister Di Maio, who has not spoken and we do not know what you think? Or to the government of Minister Guerini, who sought a loophole with mathematics, predicting the end of 2028 (sure, comes after 2024, for goodness' sake)? What is the government you trust? Is it the Count Government, which increased military spending by 17% during your term of office? What is the government you trust? What says one thing and you deny the next day? What is your government? [[Applause]] President Draghi has said well to you, saying - I shall conclude, Madam President - that, if the commitments made at such a delicate time are called into question at the gates of Europe, the majority pact will fail. You must take note of this. Yours is not a force of government, it is a summation that is not a synthesis, that does not have a foreign policy and that is full of contradictions. Take note of this and its consequences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u18	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I rise to express the strong support of the Democratic Party Group for confidence in the so-called Ukraine decree. I'm starting with a consideration. Putin has made two serious errors of assessment. The first was to underestimate the pride and resistance of the Ukrainian people and the second was to count on the differences of view of European partners and the attitude of the United States. He also had some reason for it, because the precedents were not in favour: the dialogue in Doha with the Taliban; the hasty withdrawal from Afghanistan; the withdrawal from Syria, leaving the Kurds alone, and the disengagement in the Mediterranean gave the idea that Putin could attack Ukraine without having an assertive resistance from the Atlantic Alliance. It wasn't like that. (at 10:17 a.m.) (Alfieri followed). The European countries have reacted in unison and important measures have been taken, with the raising of NATO devices throughout the East flank. We have seen the decisions that have also been made by our country, agreed with European partners. Today, women and men of the Italian Army are in the Baltic States, Romania and will go to Hungary: they deserve our recognition and our closeness. [[Applause]] At the same time, together with our European partners, we have adopted unprecedented sanctions. I also think that the rhetoric of the non-functioning sanctions goes away; certainly those on Crimea, adopted after 2014, were a little bit at the water of roses. The current ones are very pervasive, especially those on currency and financial transactions. These sanctions, unfortunately, will have consequences for our countries, so it is worth appreciating the work that Italian diplomacy is also doing in Brussels to build compensation mechanisms for the countries and sectors most affected. Then there is the decision - perhaps the most difficult - to send military aid and here I come to the Ukraine decree. I think it was good for Mr Pharaoh to remember this: we have the ability to concentrate only on a few aspects, while we know that the Ukraine decree contains a number of measures within it. The first is economic and financial support: Ukraine needs to be supported in its economic and financial fundamentals and Italy has guaranteed aid and support, just as it will in terms of cooperation as soon as there is a ceasefire, which we hope, after which our cooperation can be present in that country with a body of excellence. About what the Defense does and the risk of caricature that sometimes happens, we have a body of excellence within our Army, which is what goes to do humanitarian mine clearance in other countries. We have planned to go to Ukraine, which is the third most mined country in the world, to remove weapons, and not to carry them. [[Applause]] We are only doing in an extraordinary way an intervention amending Law No 185 of 1990, limited to allowing the Ukrainian people to exercise their sacrosanct right to self-defense. We move - I would like to remind you once again - within the framework of Article 11 of the Constitution, some of which unfortunately merely read the first paragraph and not the whole, because the constituent Fathers had wisely predicted and had included a fundamental value for us, that of peace. So we reject, as the Italian Republic, the war as an instrument of offense, but we accept the limitations of sovereignty precisely in order to bring about what later became the United Nations Organization, which in Article 51 provided for the reliance on the monopoly of the use of force, precisely to prevent the countries from making war, to the Security Council. But those who had written the Charter of the United Nations, since there was the right of veto of the victorious countries of the Second World War, before the Security Council restored peace and resolved international disputes, had already foreseen, for the country attacked - so not in the case of two countries in war, but in the case of an aggressor country and an assaulted country - the possibility of exercising the sacred right to legitimate defence. And since there is an assaulted country in this case, we exercise the prerogative we have to help and support them. And this is expected in the Ukraine decree. [[Applause]] Then there is the most important part, which is the pride of our country, about which we speak very little, even in the newspapers and in the media. That is what we have done to activate for the first time since 2001 - I thank Minister Lamorgese for the work he has done in Brussels - Directive 50, which provides for an automatic temporary protection mechanism. This was an epochal change: you will remember all the discussions after the crisis in Syria, when they arrived on our migrant coasts fleeing from war and political persecution and we could not activate it. Today, for the first time, those fleeing war are automatically welcomed by European countries, because we, in our principles and values, write that people fleeing war must be able to be welcomed. This is a fundamental point, on which Italy fought and built a powerful reception system. I would like to thank our local administrators, civil protection, prefects and all those who are taking charge of the reception. [[Applause.]] From this point of view, I am very pleased with the work we have done in the Commission. I thank President Pinotti for the work of coordination and leadership, in a difficult passage of approval of this decree. [[Applause.]] We have discussed, within the Commission, how to increase support. The Democratic Party has spent a great deal, starting with our leader Malpezzi, to build a reception system that would be fully responsible, at state level, for the costs of unaccompanied minors, who are the most fragile part in a conflict. The journey to Italy is complicated and difficult: there is a need for psychologists, there is a need for cultural mediators, there is a need for school support; there is a need to have all the resources necessary for local authorities to allow a reception, to allow children to go to school and access to health care. We have written this in the decree and we are discussing this. I am sorry that very often we talk only about military expenditure and not about the impressive and grand effort, for which we must be grateful, which is done instead on the front of the reception. [[Applause.]] I would like to share a reflection, together with you, on the response to the challenge posed to liberal democracies. Today the war of the Russian aggressor against the Ukrainian people is a threat to liberal democracies. This is what is at stake and we must reflect on the fact that the principles and values in which we believe, those of liberal democracies, are not forever, but are a daily conquest and must be cultivated and defended. I would like to ask a question, and I would also like to ask ourselves who sit in the parliamentary classrooms and are the ruling class of this country: how much are we willing to spend on it and, therefore, to spend on defending our democracy and our values? I think this is a mature debate that a country like ours has to do. I would therefore like to put the issue of the target we have set ourselves by 2%. Well the graduality and also that this was the occasion when Minister Guerini reiterated what he had already said in 2019, namely that there would be graduality. [[Applause]] No one can think that the goals will be achieved in a very short time. Today the target of 2% is everyone's heritage. We have taken a step forward and we are aware that those commitments are made at international level and on them we measure the credibility of our country. Mr President, allow me to make a final remark. We don't need those expenses today, and we risk caricatures to buy machine guns and armored cars. Today we are asking for an important effort to defend, which has been charged with new tasks not only in terms of internal security (e.g. the operation "Sicure Roads") and for the extraordinary work done by military health and by General Son, whom we thank because precisely today his task ends. [[Applause]] There are also commitments in the new cyber domain and space and dual-use investments, which will be useful for the civilian, strategic infrastructure and important investments. This is the new challenge of Defense, an important part of our country's technological innovation. Let us leave the caricatures and think that these investments must serve the construction of European defence and foreign policy. President Casini said it right. Yesterday we commemorated Maria Romana, daughter of Alcide De Gasperi, who died in 1954. A few days later General De Gaulle, then President of the French Republic, attacked the project of the European Defence Community (EDC). We must start from there because, by bringing together the women and men of our armies and by constituting European defence, we will be able to build a European foreign policy. We will no longer be just an economic and commercial giant, but also a political-diplomatic power that will play its part and affirm the rights, principles and values typical of liberal democracies. Otherwise, we will only be good at declaring the protection of the principles and values that are dear to us, without being consequent in the practice of them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u21	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the Senators of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component will vote for the confidence placed on this measure. The decree-law is the right answer that we had to give before what is an imperialist aggression, because we have to say things for what they are. It is also right that in the measure, although there are some disonic things, there is an important care on what we know best to do, namely solidarity, acceptance and putting in place all the resources necessary to help the Ukrainian people and all those who are experiencing an absolutely dramatic situation. I have made this premise because I believe that it is necessary to make a reflection between us today. I have heard a lot of talk, even in the last speech, about values and principles. I would just like to make a few comments. Invested by the pandemic, we said to each other, all together, that we had to learn the lesson, that we had to face the emergency Covid-19 with the aim of changing everything. We had to not only change health, but also define how to put in the field policies that really cared for people and actually a different way of choosing investments in our country. In correspondence with the serious emergency of the pandemic, in correspondence also with the other crisis, which everyone today continues to forget, which is the emergency of climate change, we said that we had to put in place, all together, in a great effort of cooperation at international level, a very different idea of our way of conceiving the economy and development, of how to choose investments, because this was the only way to ensure a future of peace for humanity. What has happened is certainly a watershed. We look back, not ten, twenty or thirty years, but much more. If you go to review all the debate on the various decrees related to the emergency Covid-19, we swore that we would never go back to the way we were before. Instead, we're coming back worse than before. Today the attack and the war are bringing us back. I also sense a questioning of the objectives that were commonly given to us. I feel they are called into question in cultural and political attitudes. Precisely because what happened happened - a violent aggression, not only unjustifiable but also serious and dangerous - precisely by virtue of those objectives and principles contained in Article 11 of our Constitution, which must be read all and with the right meaning, we should today discuss how our country puts itself at stake, makes available, in order to build a path of peace, a path to arrive at a conference: yesterday Senator Errani evoked the Helsinki Conference. We must therefore discuss how we are going back on the road to ensuring a safe path, both at European and international level. This is the reflection and the issue that we should address today with great seriousness. Our country, throughout the history of the Republic, has had this role or tried to play this role. I must say, quite frankly, that in this dramatic situation I have seen less of this propensity on the part of our country. I believe it is our duty to put ourselves at risk, in order to build not only a cease-fire process, which is the most urgent thing, and to help the negotiations, but also to build those which were once considered peace conferences, but which are still security conferences at European level. Why do I say, instead, that in the discussion of this decree absolutely wrong operations have been made? Here we accuse the Movimento 5 Stars of having done an instrumental operation. Now, I would like to say this very frankly: but what was the point of presenting to the House an agenda that combined the issue of the Ukraine decree with the question of arms and the increase in military expenditure? That, yes, is an absolutely wrong choice, in the times in the ways. As you can see, others were the places where we could discuss common European defence, how we contribute to a level of cooperation, knowing that, when we discuss common European defence, we must understand what the common European foreign policy is. It is true, in fact, that in this situation we have reacted well at the unitary level. However, as Senator Alfieri knows perfectly well, this is not at all obvious. As it is not at all obvious that we will then have a common foreign policy, because first the policy comes and then the instruments that must ensure common security and defence are put in place. In my opinion, these are the reflections to be made and do not accuse us of being beautiful souls: that is not the point. 10:37 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). But I really and seriously thought - unfortunately I must regret, along with so many others - that what happened to us with Covid - and will happen again if we don't change - it was a watershed after which we would have finally committed ourselves all to change the idea of state, change the idea of health, to move resources for help to people. On the other hand, I do not like the idea of being back in a discussion that sees not the horizon of peace, but only some races that I do not really like and tones of war. Moreover, even the debate on arms was certainly not the name of those who really wanted a policy of security and peace for the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u24	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the progress of parliamentary work has been somewhat contradictory, because we have moved from an informal videoconference meeting with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, to the presence of Members and senators, to the melina almost from parliamentary obstruction in the Commissions, and this has not been very serious. We have seen that the Commission's budget, for various commitments, but perhaps also by the will of some, has not expressed its opinion and that the Foreign and Defence Commissions have not been able to complete their work. It seems to me that this is not serious. I do not believe that all this has happened because of the merit of the decree-law, because they all agree on it. Moreover, we also remind the public that the decree-law concerns not arms or disarmament, but the participation of Italian military personnel in NATO devices, the transfer of weapons materials to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and a whole series of procedures that we will have to integrate - because money is not enough - for the assistance and the reception of refugees; in addition there are other events on which there is no dispute. We have seen what the "Corriere della Sera" today calls the survival attempts of a declining populism. That's what happened. There has been an instrumental use of this debate to feed something else, and I must say that the stronger this attempt was, the more the screams wanted to cover what had happened in the House of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda, which was essentially proposed by Senator Rauti, was approved by the House - think a little - with 391 votes in favour and 19 against; among the signatories were some Members of the Movimento 5 Star Group: Rizzo, Di Sarno, D'Uva and Aresta and today Di Sarno in an interview on the "Corriere della Sera" confirms that choice. So be serious. In the Senate, you tried to cover up what you did to the House. [[Applause]] In the Senate, the agenda was accepted in the Commission; confidence did not allow it to be re-established in the Chamber, but the House was voted by the Assembly, while in the Senate it was accepted in the Commission. It commits Italy to reaching the famous 2% defence expenditure in the future. I would also like to remind you that that commitment has been made in international fora by Italy and does not concern this Government, but involves a time span of about ten years; we will have to realize it over time, in 2024 or in 2028, according to what allows the situation. If there's Covid or there are other emergencies, the economic agenda changes, my friends. There is no point in saying that we won on 2028. The future is unknown, the Stability Pact has been suspended, Europe is reviewing the rules. God knows what will happen in future years that we hope will be better. I want to remind you - as has been said these days - that the Government led by Count has increased defense spending by 17%, which has gone from 21 billion in 2018 to 24.6 billion in 2021, recording an increase of 17 percent. President Draghi, accused of being a warrior, increased by only 5 percent, a third and even less than Count. We therefore believe that the usefulness of defence is fundamental. It is useless to applaud the military and the people in uniform and forget that, without the Armed Forces, there would be no help in calamities, there would be no vaccines against the Covid, there would be a thousand and a thousand occasions of intervention in Italy and abroad for peace, security and freedom. [[Applause.]] Friends of the government, when you return home, do not caress your children, but a phone call to Draghi because a DCCM lies at Palazzo Chigi to implement the new contract of the security and defence sector. Minister Brunetta of our party renewed it, the government gives the money to the staff in uniform for the contract that was signed. [[Applause]] Words, not just applause. Otherwise we get moved, we applaud and then we don't sign the DPCM. It takes five minutes and I say it publicly to the Undersecretary Garofoli. We don't think it's about spending money on guns, if anything with guns, it's about someone else. We would like to know from Leonardo, Profumo and D'Alema what is happening in Colombia. There is something unclear about the arms trade. [[Applause]] I don't mean Count is a warlord, but do you know what the most peaceful and pacifist government in the last 15 years has been? Think about it: it was the government led by Silvio Berlusconi, who did not arm arm armies; he spoke to Gaddafi, Putin, America and Europe, getting applause and listening everywhere [[Applause]] , also trying to block that war in Libya that turned out to be a tragic mistake. Gaddafi was bad, but three Gaddafi instead of one are much worse, my colleagues. So that government that, at the Sea Practice, sat Bush and Putin did, for the peace and peaceful coexistence of the peoples, much, much more than the successive governments. We need more Kissinger today than we need Biden. I remember in fact Biden and that fiery speech, perhaps addressed to American polls. Count spoke to the people of the Net clicks and Biden to American polls and the world and Italy are a little worse. Europe must move forward. The strategic compass has been decided to create the Common European Army and today in an interview General Graziano, an Italian to whom we are grateful, who presides over the Military Committee of the European Union, tells us that the European Union can no longer ignore the military dimension. Does that mean war? No: it means defending against the aggressions that exist. The attack on Ukraine is just a few kilometers from our homes. Europe must remember that it was born with the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) because it served energy. He tried to make the European Defence Community (EDC), but France did not want to. Today the Ukrainian tragedy reminds us that without defence, energy and food production, there is no freedom and independence. [[Applause]] That is what we are discussing today, helping the Ukrainians, but also ourselves. Europe had sensed this, but then everyone made energy policy on their own; De Gaulle thought he was defending himself with Force de Frappe and his atomic bomb. We propose this agenda which will save you money. A European defence will save the States; today we will spend more, but we will spend less tomorrow, when we have common technologies, when with cyber security - also that investment is needed - we will better protect public and private companies and administrations. Today we have to discuss this. We therefore need a Europe that defends its peoples and its neighbours; a Europe that takes care of itself - as I said in Draghi the other day - more of the coasts of Odessa than of persecuting Rapallo's lifeguards, because there are coasts and coasts. We are losing months here, Mr Undersecretary, to making abstruse rules and we are not dealing, even at European level, with real issues. We therefore need a Europe that is a giant that defends - not a bureaucrat who oppresses - the peoples of Europe and the people who look with confidence at Europe. By voting for trust, we make a firm choice because, beyond this decree-law that concerns support for the Ukrainian people with weapons and assistance to refugees, we are faced with essential issues, those that we addressed to the Government in Pratica di Mare and elsewhere, with the force of dialogue and not with bombings. These issues are no longer elusive. The decree-law deals with humanitarian and military issues, but there are other essential issues: the defense of Italy and the attacked peoples, the reliability of international relations, the respect of commitments concerning the nation in its continuity and not the governments that change over time. So today the center-right, even with different shades, has shown a common vision. The wide field, ladies and gentlemen - and I also say this to my colleagues in the Democratic Party - is a minefield, full of contradictions. Therefore, we vote for the trust of the Government that exists, but today we show what will be, with the center-right, the Government that will be there, that defends security, freedom, reliability: certainly not the Government of the war, but the Government of security, the Government of Practice of the Sea. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u27	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League will vote for the government and, if it had not been placed, it would still have voted for the measure in our examination, because our position is clear: according to Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, Ukraine has the right-duty to defend itself. [[Applause]] The Italian Government has a duty to lend all the necessary help to the Ukrainian people, [[Applause]] , including military aid, also respecting - and this is something we must remember - the Atlantic Pact. Therefore, it is right to respect international agreements, because a common European defence is necessary not only for greater European integration, but also and above all as a deterrent effect for those that can be present or future attacks. [[Applause]] This is crucial. The League, at the same time, unlike others, has asked to moderate its tones. Why? The world is currently walking on a thin red line that can plunge us into an escalation of conflict and lead us to World War III. Therefore, we must give the words that are spoken and be very careful about the actions that we want to take: this is why we said to moderate the tones. [[Applause]] It made us smile a bit 'a certain warlike fury, perhaps from some characters also from the press: someone defines them as the warriors living room, the warriors sofa, in short those who perfectly follow the Italian tradition synthesized in the phrase "Armiamomi e parti". Let us return to our natural beehive, which is that of diplomacy: this is the word we used. We want to see an Italy that is at the forefront on the diplomatic front and we are pleased that President Draghi and the Government have taken this initiative. Premier Draghi's phone call with both Zelensky and Putin was absolutely important. The premier said we want to talk about peace. [[Applause]] The aim is the negotiation that must, yes, lead us to an agreement, which will then have international guarantees, but that is the way forward. Therefore, the government does what is right and that is contained in this decree-law, but on the other hand push its action - as it is doing - also and above all on the diplomatic front. It is right to help refugees, and here too the decree contains important measures: for the most part they are women and children fleeing from bombs - let it be clear - and therefore it is right to help them. Indeed, in this regard, as a League, but together with all the forces of majority, we have asked and obtained - there is a precise commitment of the Government - that on unaccompanied minors, in order to meet the needs of the mayors, the State takes full responsibility for the expenses, precisely to help the smaller municipalities. [[Applause]] Moreover, we ask the Government - it is a commitment that will mainly concern the next decrees, starting from the so-called "price cut" decree - that there be the will to help also our families and our enterprises. [[Applause]] That's the point. Among the headlines of some of today's newspapers is "Small and medium-sized companies with gas barrels," and we talk about expensive energy and expensive fuel: we cannot think - and we say this to the Government with all due respect - that the fuel discount can last thirty days. It must be extended. It must be extended. [[Applause]] We cannot think that we can't help some businesses that are closing down, because they can't stand up anymore. Last time we talked about the middle class, many families in crisis. Yesterday there was a statement that many people can't even pay their bills anymore, because they don't have the money and they don't pay them. We must make an intervention, but the government objects that the Ministry of Economics and Finance of money are not there, because everything that could be collected was collected for the decree energy in the House and for the "price cut" in the Senate. Well, we understand this. We must then intervene with the European Union to allow the Member States of Europe to make the budgetary deviation, because we cannot but give resources to our economy, unless we want to shut down businesses and put the vast majority of our people into poverty. I do not think that is the objective of the European Union. So, all the more so, we must insist on the willingness to find these resources. As we said, everything that has been done is right. The measures that the government has put in place to support our families are also good, but, knowing that they are not enough, more needs to be done. It is the commitment that we are asking the Government and with this we reaffirm our vote in favour of the confidence and the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u30	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Il Sole 24 Ore published a disturbing figure, namely that 15% of Italian families cannot and will not be able to pay their bills. Entire sectors are on their knees, sectors that had already been hit by the post-pandemic economic crisis and are now suffering from expensive energy and rising raw material costs. Yet, Mr President, for all the other political forces at the heart of the agenda these days there still seems to be the issue of increased military spending. The debate on this measure has also been polluted by those who tried to confuse the plans. Mr President, bringing this bill to the House without the rapporteur has served to bring down that opposition agenda which had been approved in the Commission on the extraordinary increase in military expenditure, which we were firmly opposed to. So we cleared the field of all those instrumental confusions between things that weren't connected to each other. On the one hand, in fact, there is the Ukraine Decree-Law, which allocates funds, resources and even military aid to Ukraine; on the other hand, there is the discourse of budgetary choices in the defence sector, which must be discussed and deepened in the appropriate fora, without further leaks and without provocative forcing. [[Applause]] We have thus restored the normality of a legislative process that risked being hijacked on matters that were unrelated to this measure. However, Mr President, I wonder what would have happened without our strenuous resistance. That's what it's for. That's what the 5 Star Movimento is for. [[Applause]] : to always defend the citizens and the country, in this case from whom, exploiting the emotional wave of a war in progress, tried to pursue interests that have little to do with the security of the country and, instead, have to do with the profits of the military industry. For the defense of the country it is not necessary to invest now 12 billion euros without having first rationalised, optimized, efficient the many funds that we already invest in defense. I never tire of remembering that Europe is currently spending $230 billion a year on defence, that is four times more than China and little less than Russia. What is the use of investing other resources if we do not optimize the expenditure we already support? And I say this above all if we consider - as I think I hear from all the other political forces - that the objective must be a common European defence and possibly a common European debt issue to finance these costs. Let me also, Mr President, express my satisfaction with Mr Guerini's words yesterday that, after saying that 2% of GDP in defence spending was to be reached by 2024, he is talking today instead of a gradual and progressive increase, possibly by 2028. [[Applause]] , thus meeting our demands for graduality and sustainability in achieving these objectives, which cannot be separated from the current changed socio-economic scenario. We now come to the measure under consideration, the Ukraine Decree-Law, which provides for a series of measures to support the sectors most affected by this war, in support of our entrepreneurs, who have commercial relations with Ukraine and Russia, and above all in support of Ukraine, including the sending of weapons and military equipment, to allow the Ukrainian people the exercise of the right of self-defense, enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. It is clear, Mr President, that the choice to send weapons has been for us to suffer, especially for ethical reasons, which appeal to the personal conscience of each of us. But we have not ignored that moral requirement not to turn on the other side, not to leave only the Ukrainian people attacked by Putin's Russia. Added to this is also the strategic reflection of undeniable merit - especially in the light of military developments - which, without the concrete, even military support, which Europe provided from the first day of this conflict, Ukrainian resistance probably would not have been able to stop Russia's military advance, forcing it to give up on Kiev to retreat on more limited military objectives. Without this resistance, the Russians would probably have achieved in the field military successes such as to turn the negotiating table into a surrender table. On the other hand, Madam President, we are concerned about the risk that all these weapons will end up in the wrong hands, as has already been the case in Afghanistan or the Balkans. The 5 Star Movement then asks the Government to carefully monitor the delivery methods and the actual final recipients of these supplies, trying as far as possible to trace them, just to prevent the weapons from going into the wrong hands. There is also the most important aspect of this humanitarian measure in support of the reception and delivery of humanitarian aid to the Ukrainian population. There are more than 80,000 refugees arriving in our country. We believe that the solidarity network that has been set up in Italy should be strengthened and that is why we have tabled a motion in Parliament, both in the Regional and Municipal Councils, aimed at supporting the solidarity network, which calls for the establishment of a fund in support of the municipalities and associations in the third sector which are engaged in the reception and assistance. This is a motion that calls for the resolution of the current housing emergency and for real health and psychological support, especially for the most fragile, the elderly and children, who are the first victims of the war. We have also obtained - as my fellow Members have said in this House - the Government's commitment to fully bear all the costs for unaccompanied minors. Family reunification should also be encouraged, and all bureaucratic procedures for welcoming Ukrainian citizens, especially the elderly and the most fragile, should be simplified. Madam President, we know that difficult weeks are waiting for us and we strongly hope that we can return to talking about peace as soon as possible. Today we are going to vote firmly in favour of this measure, on which confidence has never been called into question, nor are we going to question our confidence in the government or the certainty that Europe and NATO must always be defended and strengthened. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u31	Colleagues, I kindly ask you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u32	Please, Senator. CASTELLONE (M5S). Let me say, Madam President, that it is very sad to hear people call populist who are saying that we cannot risk taking resources from sectors that are on their knees and from reforms that this country had to do a decade ago to invest in arms. Today we will vote with conviction in favour of the draft law under consideration, moving forward with the constructive spirit that has always marked us, having clear what are the priorities for citizens and for the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u34	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u35	DESSO (Misto-PC). Madam President, if anyone felt that the vehemence with which some Italian journalists and editorialists or many parties attacked the pacifist movement or simply those who criticized the choice of the Italian Government to send weapons to Ukraine was disproportionate, the answer - at least in part - could be the famous phrase typical of investigative journalism Let's think of the most famous Italian family, the Agnelli-Elkann, which today can quietly produce cars or shoes, have a football team, control the Gedi group and, specifically, twelve newspapers, eight periodicals, four radio stations and twenty-three digital newspapers and at the same time, through the consortium OTO Melara, be the leader in the national industry of terrestrial armaments, which produces armored Centauro II and, through participation in Rolls Royce, in the program Tempest, fighter planes. Money, money, money and always money. In 2019 the turnover of the top 25 companies in the industry reached 400 billion dollars, growing, and of course politics cannot ignore anything. Some people in these days have wondered why - for example - strangely the most controversial of the agendas under discussion has been proposed not by the majority, but by what is defined, millandoing reality, the only force of opposition. It is right to remember who is Guido Crosetto, a Member of this Parliament, who resigned to be the President of Aiad. It is not known as an organization: it is the Federation, member of Confindustria, representing Italian companies for aerospace, defence and security. This is the definition taken from the site: It welcomes almost all national, high-tech companies operating in the design, production, research and service sectors: civil and military aerospace, naval and land-based military and electronic systems related to them. The Hagued maintains close and constant relations with national, international or NATO bodies and institutions in order to promote, represent and guarantee the interests of the industry which it represents; interests, Madam President, which are money, as we said before. The vice-president is a former MP of the PD, Andrea Manciulli, who, of course, is not the only democratic lover of arms. We have heard in recent days the former leader Massimo D'Alema fable on the phone with his friends millionaire commissions on the sale of instruments and weapons of war. He, however, is old, has been destroyed; the new is Alessandro Profumo, the managing director of Leonardo, former Monte dei Paschi di Siena and Unicredit, appointed by the Renzi and Gentiloni Governments in the last legislature and by Minister Padoan, who took his place in the bank: a ride between friends, as one would say. The same applies to the Med-Or Foundation, which was founded always on the initiative of Leonardo, who has as president the former minister of the PD and delegate to the Secret Service Marco Minniti. In short, around the world of weapons there is room for everyone and - not to blame anyone - it is right to remember that Leonardo's brother Giorgetti, Francesco, manager in the helicopter sector, is also working in Leonardo, and recently the son of the undersecretary Tabacci has been hired; in short, an assumption on merit, we are sure. For the "tengo famiglia" in Italy there is always space, or space - if you allow me the joke, Madam President - and it does nothing if this militarist cries will cause deaths, especially innocent, and will drag Italy, as a co-belligering nation, into an unprecedented economic crisis and system. I shall conclude, Madam President, because wars are not only the arms manufacturers and the travellers who sell them, but also people like you, families like yours, who want, want, want and never content themselves. [[Applause]] The villas, the cars, the bikes, the parties, the horse, the rings and the bracelets, the furs and all the c... they cost a lot and, in order to get them, someone must be plundered. Alberto Sordi said in a famous film, "As long as there's war there's hope," and it was 1974. It's been 40 years, but we haven't learned anything. You fooled us this time, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u37	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u38	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Madam President, the nightmare of an atomic conflict has returned to humanity after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. There are 90 million deaths, in the case of a nuclear war that would not have won: it is the frightening simulation of the Program on Science and Global Security (SGS) of the American University of Princeton. We reject the war: I have also heard it said in this House. It is a pity that, like so many soldiers, the US-NATO doctrine is obeyed, that of the notorious exporters of democracy in the world with bombs, which in two hundred and forty-six years since the beginning of their existence, in 1776, have been in perennial war for two hundred and twenty-seven years, from the first wars of independence to those with native American Indians, driven with shame from their lands, up to Vietnam, Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. Anyone who differs from the unique thought, who does not admit criticism, is accused of being a flanker of Putin, as happened in these dark days even to the director of "Avvenire," Andrea Tarquini, accused by journalist Rampini of the "Corriere della sera", in the words: You're one of the many who work for Putin. It's not like that. None of us is rooting for dictators, not even those who are covered by the apparent patina of democracy, those financial dictators who have been imposed on us. However, I claim to support diplomacy and negotiations that lead to peace. As lay people we make our own the heartfelt appeals of Pope Francis. He said that it is madness to increase the expenditure on arms to 2% and that he was ashamed: this he said and he was even censored by TG1. A recent survey shows that almost 73 percent of respondents today disagree with the decision of the Draghi Government to increase military spending. This is enough to say that the government and the embedded media enlisted by the warriors do not represent the interests of the Italians, forced to pay the high costs of sanctions to Russia and the restrictive policies of their trampled rights. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Lannotti. LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, I conclude with a few words by Bertrand Russell: The war does not determine who is right, but only who survives. I hope the reason prevails over the immense folly of war that would not have any winners, especially the third war. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u40	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u41	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, on the one hand there is the attacking country and, on the other, the attacking country and that is a fact. Then there is another fact: at the first we send fresh money every day as a counterperformance for the daily sale of that 40 percent of gas we need. On the second we send weapons to resist the Russian offensive fueled with the money we give to the Russians to buy Russian gas. Did you realize that? If it really were transparent and coherent, the government should stop buying Russian gas now and now, but it cannot, because in recent decades with Putin we, Germany and Europe have done business. That's a fact. Say you want peace. Well: if the facts are in these essential terms, there is no other modus operandi than to insist on the mediation table and be credible; whether it is a table that excludes the sending of weapons, which the majority of Italians reject, the same Italians who open the doors to the refugees, but who remain out of your protection in the matter of dear-life, dear-petrol and dear-energy; a table that excludes words like killer and butcher and that, as long as it is average, also exclude the courts for war crimes and the possibility of overthrowing a President who still enjoys the maximum consent in his country. Mediation will lead to possible peace, not absolute peace. And in this possible peace Putin will not be able to go out like a defeated one, unless you think of eliminating him politically or physically with a long, violent and unpredictable war. If you want to get the Ukrainians out of the war, every minute must be thought about what mediation. If you do not want to enlarge the war in Europe, the one indicated in the so-called Ukraine decree is not the right way. It is not by giving arms to Ukraine or by speeding up the common European army (which has never been discussed in a democratic debate) that we will achieve peace. That's how you feed the fight. And if the clash does not stop, then our children - to whom you have told the Europe of peace - will be forced to wear a uniform and hold those weapons whose traffic weighs the world's GDP. Gaber said: "It hurts me who says that it hurts him who dies and pretends nothing about arms trafficking, which is one of the pillars on which our beloved well-being is based." If you want to widen the conflict and bring it to Europe, you will not do so with the vote of Italexit for Italy-Party Human Value.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u43	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u44	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr. President... Colleagues, lower those signs. I would ask the parliamentary assistants to speak. Please, Senator Garnet. GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, today's is the 42nd decree-law which will certainly be converted by a vote of confidence. And it will also be approved by all those political forces who profess to be opposed to conflicts and the sending of weapons and who profess to be in favour of taking the path of diplomacy. It is always those forces that, even at the last opportunity, have voted for the resolution on the sending of arms, according to which commitments have been made to this end by this Government. Today, therefore, those people have the opportunity to demonstrate the consistency that they have not so far demonstrated with regard to what they publicly declare in this House and vote no, against the confidence of this Government. Unfortunately, this government is also leading us to be a cobeligerent party in a conflict, despite our own and despite the opinion of over 50% of Italians, even if it is misinformed by the propaganda that is done through mainstream newspapers. Unfortunately, this Government and this majority are totally different from the common feeling of the country and they always work against the public interest, no matter everything and everyone. The weapons are going to end up in the hands of irregular armies, who also carry out a neo-Nazi ideology and are carrying out massacres, not only of Russian military, but also of pro-Russian civilians. We are making ourselves an accomplice, at a time when there are diplomatic openings between Russia and Ukraine, of a very serious act, that of giving arms to armies that will therefore remain armed even with our weapons and that will use against the Filorusian civilians, lighting and keeping alive other outbreaks of war. So this conflict, even if it were to be resolved temporarily by diplomatic means, is bound to explode sooner or later. That is what the United States wants, and that is what NATO wants, because that is what has been planned on the agenda that needs to be pursued. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u45	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u46	I call again on parliamentary assistants - I am sorry to have to be involved in this - to remove the cartels from the House. I thank them, as well as I thank the Senator Commissioner for his contribution. Colleagues, I invite you to facilitate those who are working.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u47	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2562, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 14 of 25 February 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber and in the vicinity of access to the Presidency bench. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Lonardo is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Lonardo. GIRO, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of the voting operations the Presidency takes over - 11:43 a.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2562, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 14 of 25 February 2022, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 249 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 214 Contrars 35]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 14 are therefore excluded. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12:01 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u48	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and the Minister for Health will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Zanda has the right to explain the question 3-03221 on the initiatives for the establishment of a European defence and security system, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u49	Minister for Defence, I consider it very important that the Senate should be able to address you today on the subject of European defence. I say in premise that I consider the Armed Forces an instrument of peace and indeed in our country, also the senses of our Constitution, one of the main instruments of peace that it has and disposes exclusively with a function of defense. Several times in this parliamentary term I have called - I must say with a discreet isolation - for the urgency of a more complete political unity in Europe, with priority in the common foreign and defence policy. Putin's Russian war in Ukraine has brought back almost unanimously in the Italian political world the theme of European defence, which had actually been practically reserved for specialists since the 1950s. You, Minister, have recently said, and not only once, that the subject of European defence is a political issue rather than a technical-military one, and I share your view, because it is the same institutional and political structure as the European Union that makes the creation of a real European armed force complex. There are many issues to be resolved as a matter of priority: do all 27 members of the Union agree? What political and democratic authority should lead the European Armed Forces? Do we need a two-speed Europe? Is the unanimity rule compatible with a common foreign and defence policy? I do not ask you to answer all these questions, but I would be very reassured by your knowledge that the Italian Government is working to resolve all these issues diplomatically and I thank you for your answer right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u50	The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions I have had the opportunity to reiterate - as the honourable Member said - that the issue of common European defence has always been on the agenda of the Dicastery and our Government. If the European Union wants to be a global player, it must have a common foreign and defence policy, which will allow strategic autonomy in the whole field. This is an ambitious objective and requires a demanding path, first and foremost from a political point of view. Along this path, a fundamental step - I would say historical - was taken exactly a week ago, on 24 March, with the formal adoption by the European Council of the strategic compass, a document that represents the culmination of a work that lasted about two years, and that represents a unique opportunity for the strengthening of the European Union's security and defence policy. The document, which has seen the thought contributions of all the Member States, marks a genuine watershed in the area of collective security. It provides for a comprehensive set of measures, to be implemented at the planned deadlines, from now until 2030, which affix to four clearly defined areas: the ability to act in contexts of crisis prevention and management; the ability to protect, with particular reference to free access in maritime, cybernetic and space domains; the investment in terms of joint capacity development within the Union; the strengthening of partnership relations. From this point of view - and I come to the question addressed to me - a fundamental role is to be expected to constitute a rapid intervention force of 5,000 soldiers for different types of crisis, with the ability to operate even in a non-permissive environment. This is an interforce capacity with land, air and naval facilities, which will have to reach full operational capacity by 2025, thanks also to the establishment of a military planning unit and a capacity for conduct. The size of the forces, however, does not exhaust the spectrum of capabilities that the Union needs to equip itself with in order to be credible and competitive and to acquire the strategic autonomy mentioned by the honourable Member. An equally fundamental direction, along which it is necessary to persevere, concerns the field of research and development, which, for the national defence industry, represents an opportunity for cooperation and, at the same time, for the affirmation of its know-how. With this in mind, Italian Defense will have to be able to meet the challenge of functional community integration, both through the strengthening of Italy's role in the initiatives of the European Defence Fund (EDF), participating actively, in a qualified manner and overseeing its future potential developments; both by pursuing full civil and military integration in the field of research, removing any remaining conceptual, programmatic and financial distinction, which does not pay, compared to the added value that can be obtained from the synergy of all available resources. In order to support these strategic objectives, I will shortly start the work of a coordination table for industrial policy that I have recently established. And it is from the point of view of this Community integration, ladies and gentlemen, that every single initiative must be brought back if we are to confirm ourselves as credible and reliable actors in a credible and reliable Europe, aware of the responsibilities arising from the international scenario in which we find ourselves and which, especially in the present historical moment, we are called to assume; also in terms of investment and dedicated resources. It is a path that must be addressed gradually and persistently, taking account of financial constraints, but keeping clear the direction Italy intends to pursue. In order to achieve an adequate level of common strategic capacity and a shared technological and industrial base, clear and determined policy choices and consequent resources by all Member States are certainly needed. On this, even in the light of the debate these days, I want to assure you that Italy is doing and will continue to do its part more and more without hesitation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u52	Senator Zanda has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u53	Minister, thank you for your reply, which I naturally support, just as I consider the initiatives taken by the European Union to be important, also on the initiative of Italy. I trust that the Italian Government, you personally, and our diplomacy will continue in this work that has a strategic importance for the future not only of our country but also of Europe. I would add only the great importance which the attempt to achieve greater integration of the European arms industries in this context, which - as you certainly know - are a very important part of this process, the integration of which can lead not only to a reduction in expenditure, but also to a very substantial improvement in the quality of our armaments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u54	Senator Toffanin has the right to explain Question 3-03226 on the prospects for labour market reform, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u55	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Marco Biagi, whom we would like to recall in the month of the anniversary of his tragic death, had already intuited twenty years ago the evolution of the labour market and the need to protect its flexibility. Marco Biagi always stressed the need to modernise the work, its culture and its meanings, because - let us remember - the work must be adapted to the economic and social context, and we have unfortunately seen it during the pandemic. As Marco Biagi did, we must not deny reality and turn our heads on the other side. Forza Italia has always been inspired by this vision. That is why, never as at this time, we are firmly reaffirming the need to review a work system that takes into account the world of suffering businesses, and at the same time changing, but also young people who want to experience different experiences and test themselves in a dynamic labour market, but also for those in our country who currently remain only temporarily. The picture that emerged after the pandemic and now with the war is very complex. The sharp increase in the costs of raw materials and energy is forcing companies to change production times and modes, even to interrupt them in many cases. In these macroeconomic contexts - according to press forecasts - GDP growth forecasts in DEF 2022 will be about two percentage points lower than those assumed a few months ago in NADEF: a figure that will show its effects in all sectors and, therefore, also in work. Just in these days, from the results of the research of the LUISS university and the European project Mospi presented by INAPP, it is learned that Italy has won the black shirt for active labour policies compared to other European countries. This is because in our welfare system there is little investment in human capital, training, reconciliation of life and labour, while our investments in passive policies, which absorb up to 16.3% of GDP, are increasingly increasing. Minister, as the press has pointed out, you would have stated at a conference, held right here in the Senate in recent days, that we must ask ourselves if it is not time to reduce the contractual types that foresee a strong precariousness of work. At this point Forza Italia, who has always been careful to follow the dynamics of the world of enterprise and the labour market, asks you, Minister, if instead it is not the case to pursue policies of flexibility through a revision of the decree-law so-called dignity, the re-introduction of tools such as vouchers, strengthening the negotiation of proximity in order to guarantee the job with protection and in safety. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators for having put forward an issue that addresses the complex issue of employment dynamics, and I would also like to thank them for drawing the figure of Marco Biagi back twenty years after his barbaric killing. Biagi - as you recalled, Senator Toffanin - invited us from the concrete reality and then we start from it. The analysis of the quarterly Employment Trends Note for the fourth quarter of 2021, recently prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, together with Istat, INPS, INAIL and ANPAL, shows a fairly clear picture. Employment has a significant cyclical and trendy growth. In particular, employee employment is increasing, as is the continuing growth, albeit slowing down, of permanent employment positions. The dynamics of time positions, which also include administration and call work, are growing in a particularly sustained way. In this context, 39.5% of fixed-term employment positions are expected to last up to thirty days (13.3% a single day), 29.1% from two to six months, and only 0.9 percent exceeds one year. Overall, there is an increase in the incidence of activations of contracts of very short duration (26.3% up to a week, +3.7 points compared to 2020), and those of one to six months (+5.8 points) and at the same time a fast rate of extinction. The data therefore gives us a framework of contractual rigidity that is not certain and there is an increase in contractual flexibility and the use of atypical contracts. Moreover, in Italy the involuntary part time - according to Eurostat data for 2020 - is 66 percent (the highest percentage in Europe). At the same time, the data on the average level of wages are particularly critical, showing a clear fall in wages for the most fragile categories of our labour market, such as women, young people, workers in the Mezzogiorno and workers with low qualifications. We therefore need to intervene on some structural problems endemic to our labour market, such as strong youth and gender unemployment, transition periods between school and work, between the longest in Europe, the mismatch between supply and demand, and the phenomenon of working poverty. The Government's commitment and the PNRR's resources are being put into action on all of this. In Italy a quarter of the workers have a low individual wage and more than one in ten workers are in poverty. Work poverty is often linked to insufficient wages, but it is also the result of a work-time process. In fact, not only the lack of absolute work, but the lack of skilled, well-paid and continuous work is the source of poverty and social exclusion. The Covid-19 pandemic presumably exacerbated the phenomenon, exposing those with atypical contracts to higher risks of unemployment. In this context, action to rationalise contractual typologies should be geared towards curbing precarious work rather than introducing additional flexibility clauses. I would remind you that the European Pillar of Social Rights states that the transition to permanent forms of work must be promoted, avoiding as much as possible the use of forms of work that lead to unstable conditions. Moreover, the transition processes and the impact of new technologies need a large investment in training on human capital precisely to avoid the risk that the flexibility of work will become further forms of precariousness. In other words, in the face of an investment of 5 billion between active policies and training, there is a question as to whether this is compatible with contractual securities providing for a day's work or working days. This I believe is the question that we all have to ask ourselves, overcoming ideology and looking at the state of the art of the labour market in Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Toffanin has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u57	Minister, thank you for your reply, but I must express my dissatisfaction. It is clear that, while being part of the same majority, the visions are different, but the economic trend and also - we repeat - the ecological and digital transition in place requires a non-cast labour market. The data you mentioned are related to the time of the pandemic and do not cover the current times of the conflict. The consequences of what we are living and have lived will be felt for years. Unfortunately, we need to simplify and liberalise work to the maximum; we can no longer afford any more blocks of dismissal to secure work. Minister, you have not responded to any forms of work which do not concern the structure of a non-regular job. In everyday life you need to have the opportunity to pay even the small performances and think about vouchers. There is a greater need to have a fixed-term contract than not to have it: these are choices that go in one direction or another, but at the moment, Minister, it is the State that must make up for it where permanent bargaining cannot exist, through guarantees and safeguards that also go in a system of pension reform, which takes into account this non-continuity of work, lack of protection and guarantees for young people to help them buy their first home. In short, there is no welfare system that must support work, even non-continuous. I hope, Minister, that there will be a greater opportunity for a moment of discussion with you. Forza Italia reiterates that it does not want other citizens income recipients, does not want work in black, but wants to be able to guarantee work for everyone in safety.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u58	Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-03224 on compliance with the health rules in the transport of animals, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u59	Mr President, Minister Speranza, the inquiry launched by the European Parliament in June 2020 on complaints of infringements of animal transport has shown that the rules of the sector, in particular Council Regulation No 1 of 2005, are obsolete and poorly applied by the Member States. The most obvious violations concern the non-compliance of means of transport - animals are often forced to travel in overcrowding conditions with insufficient food and water and exposed to extreme temperatures - and extended journey times. For these reasons, the EU Special Commission has made recommendations to the European Commission and the Member States. The call was made to step up controls and encourage the transport of meat compared to live animals, to revise the 2005 Regulation and to appoint an EU Commissioner responsible for animal welfare. For the transport of live animals outside the Union, it was asked to limit exports to countries able to guarantee European standards, until the introduction of an export ban in countries where slaughter takes place according to practices involving extreme and prolonged suffering. Finally, it has been suggested to encourage the use of alternative means to transport to slaughter, such as mobile slaughterhouses and slaughter on farms, enhancing a more territorial approach in line with the Farm to Fork strategy. Among the options, there is also an invitation to assess the introduction of an animal welfare labelling system which also takes into account transport and slaughter conditions. That said, Minister, I ask you to know what initiatives the Government intends to take in order to ensure a more effective application of the Regulation (EC) by Italian carriers; if you do not consider that Italy urgently has to take action against the export of live animals to countries that do not comply with the minimum standards on breeding and slaughter and if you do not intend to evaluate the introduction of a system of animal welfare labelling for products of origin and animal origin that also takes into account the conditions of transport and slaughter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator for giving her attention to a subject that I consider particularly sensitive, such as animal welfare in our country and also, of course, at European level. The enlargement of the Union to include new Member States and the increase in trade between Community and non-EU countries have led to a significant increase in the number of undertakings engaged in the transport of live animals by road in Italy, both as a destination and as a place of transit. In order to counter the irregularities inherent to the transport of the animals, since 2011 an agreement has been concluded with the Ministry of the Interior, Department of Public Safety, central direction for the road police, on the controls relative to the regularity of the transport, organized in collaboration with the ASL and the peripheral offices of the Ministry of Health for always benefit of the animals. These checks, in addition to the verification functions to which they are directly aimed, have also been a deterrent to transporters, all the more so given that they have been carried out on the most important national road routes. On 25 March the Ministry of Health, following a meeting with the major animal protection associations, sent a note to the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces, the veterinary offices for the fulfilment of Community obligations and to the Ministry of the Interior (public safety department), in order to ask to intensify checks on road and slaughter facilities during the Easter period, which involves a significant movement of animals from abroad. In particular, a planning of joint road checks has been planned in collaboration with the Road Police, also on routes that may be different from the traditional ones coming from Eastern Europe, asking also to pay particular attention to the density of load, the presence of animals not suitable for transport, the functionality and suitability of the drinking system in relation to the species, the age, the respect of the travel times and of rest. I also remember that Italy was one of the few countries to have previously banned transport on the national territory during the periods in which high temperatures are recorded, over 30 degrees. In this regard, on 3 July 2019 the Ministry of Health sent a note to the Regions, with which it requested proper and adequate planning of long journeys, both through the countries of the European Union and to third countries, by land or sea, paying particular attention to the suitability of animals for transport, respect of stops, rest, watering and feeding times. Specifically with regard to the organisation of travel, it was also represented the need to organize them during the coolest hours of the day, possibly at night, taking into account the physiological state of the animals. Finally, the Ministry of Health will continue to participate in the process of reviewing sector legislation at Community level and to implement all the measures provided for in the EU and national law to protect animal welfare, in the spirit of the one health strategy that guides our own Ministry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u61	Minister, I am partially satisfied with your reply. I appreciate your sensitivity, but I think you should do more. The European Union has long stated that animals are sentient beings and that they must be treated in this respect, while the Italian law still states that they are mobile goods. The suffering of animals must not be a side effect of our consumption of meat; we must do something and above all we must ban the export of animals to countries where a minimum of protection for their health and well-being is not respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u62	Senator Parente has the right to explain the question 3-03223 on the contribution of Russian health care to the fight against Covid-19 in spring 2020, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u63	Mr President, Minister, let us talk about the mission "From Russia with love," with which a group of Russian scientists and military, in the spring of 2020, went to Bergamo to officially bring health aid. The issue, as you know, is being discussed a lot in Italy after Russia's terrible aggression against Ukraine and above all following the words of Aleksey Paramonov, director of the European department of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to which Italy would be showing ingratitude for the help received from Russia. That is exactly what we want to talk to you today, Minister, about. There are a number of journalistic investigations in this regard in recent weeks, but we think that this is the right place to ask you for your reconstruction, particularly as regards what you have followed the Russian mission, the lack of health care in the delegation (32 out of 104, if that is true), the possible request of the Russian representation of sensitive health data of our fellow citizens, the possible undertaking of research and studies on Covid and with what guarantees of safety. Finally, we ask you, Minister, if you were aware of the contents of the agreement signed in April 2021 between the Spallanzani Institute in Rome and the Gamaleya Institute in Moscow. Let us ask you this information so that you can help us parliamentarians and our citizens understand what happened in those first terrible months of the epidemic, with the offer of help from the Russians, and if you have not at least sinned of superficiality on the possible implications that the story could have had, since even authoritative voices of politicians express doubts about it, starting with Gori, Mayor of Bergamo, territory in which the Russian mission took place, which recently expressed itself as follows: It should be remembered that more generals arrived at Pratica di Mare than doctors. Was it help, propaganda or intelligence? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u64	Mr President, Senator Parente, on this question I shall confine myself to bringing back only the elements to my knowledge, also in the light of parliamentary acts already formalized following previous inspection initiatives by Parliament, being the heart of the issues raised not strictly within the competence of the Ministry of Health. The genesis of the Russian cooperation initiative took place following a conversation between the President of the Italian Council and the Russian President and then between the two Ministers of Defence. Those talks were preceded by diplomatic contacts through the two embassies, in Rome and Moscow. The coordination of the aid, like those arrived from many other countries on those days not simple for Italy, was managed by Civil Protection. The Russian team, as it turns out, remained in Italy from 22 March to 7 May and consisted of 104 units, of which 32 health workers, 52 reclaimers and then staff of linguistic assistance and interpretation. Mixed teams were formed with Italian military personnel of the 7th Regiment defense "Cremona" of Civitavecchia. In coordination with the health services of the Lombardy Region a disinfection and reclamation activity was started, in particular of the health care residences in the area of Bergamo. The above mentioned health personnel were employed at the Alpine camp located near the hospital "Pope John XXIII" in Bergamo. With regard to donations received with the Russian team, the Civil Protection claimed to have received 521,800 masks, 30 pulmonary fans, 1,000 protective suits, 2 tampons analysis machines, 10,000 fast swabs and 100,000 ordinary tampons. On the collaboration agreement between the institute "Lazzaro Spallanzani" and the institute "Gamaleya" which today has been suspended, I recall that it is one of the autonomous initiatives of international collaboration of our research institutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Senator Parente to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u65	Minister, thank you for your reply, which clarifies some important things concerning your competence. As far as I am concerned, I am partly satisfied with the issues that you have clarified and satisfied with those concerning your competence. It is clear that a fundamental fact emerges, namely that such an operation had to be managed a priori, regardless of the gravity of the moment, without accepting sic et simpliciter a not better identified aid and in the absence of a precise organization. As I said before, we have at least sinned of superficiality and lack of clarity about how many people would come and with what skills and why so many soldiers. You have made it clear to us about the aspect of autonomy in the collaboration between the institute "Lazaro Spallanzani" and the institute "Gamaleya". I think because of his expertise, he said what he could say.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u66	Senator Zaffini has the right to explain the question 3-03225 on the revision of the vaccination strategy against coronavirus, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u67	Minister, the subject of the question is the fourth dose of the vaccine. It is, as you know, a controversial issue on which the scientific community's discordant opinions insist, among which it would seem that those who attribute to the fourth dose do not have any effect, especially with regard to the latest Omicron and Omicron 2 variants. Finally, today, with statements even quite clear, Professor Caruso, president of the Italian Society of Virology, says that at this time making a fourth dose of anti-Covid-19 vaccine with drugs aged at least two years and aimed at countering a viral strain that is no longer present in the world is an absurd thing from the theoretical point of view. Professor Caruso also wonders whether this is linked to a time of difficulty in the pharmaceutical industry, that is not to provide us with a second-generation vaccine; or, in a more bad way, if we have to imagine that there are deposits to empty. Minister, it is legitimate to suspect that there are deposits to be emptied, since, a few minutes ago, I extracted from the European Commission's website confirmation of the fact that 4.2 billion doses of vaccine have been purchased from a European population that does not reach half a billion people. There are approximately 10 doses of vaccine (of the old vaccine, of course) per head, which you do not understand well what they should be used for. Today an important newspaper, "Il Fatto," writes that the fourth dose is used to dispose of Pfizer's stocks. Beyond what may be the controversial world of the scientific community - and I do not envy it, Minister, in having to interpret absolutely conflicting messages - it must be said that this branch of Parliament approved an agenda, in the Government's favour, on 7 January, which called for the need to carry out an antibody screening before proceeding to the fourth dose, then the second booster dose, in order to assess whether the person to whom it is inoculated already has an antibody immunizing heritage. If this general and overall screening had difficulties, especially in terms of time and costs, it would be absolutely important, Minister, to revise the strategy, ensuring at least that this individual analysis is carried out at the request of the subject, especially for those categories which should be subjected to vaccination obligation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators for putting forward a very important subject on which, among other things, there was a meeting on Tuesday at the level of Health Ministers. Let me, meanwhile, on this particular day, on 31 March, the last of our state of emergency, express gratitude to General Son and in particular to the Technical and Scientific Committee (CTS), for the important contribution they have made in these months. [[Applause]] The numbers of the Italian campaign are extraordinary and place us among the first countries of the world: we are 91.37 percent of the first doses, 89.83 percent of second doses and over 38.807 million have also made the booster. It is precisely these numbers that have allowed us to avoid closures in our country that, alas, there have also been in these months of autumn and winter. As was said, a fourth dose discussion is open. Some European countries have already begun to give indications. Germany gave a fourth dose indication over seventy years; France over eighty years; Britain over seventy-five years. In the last few hours, also in the United States an indication has been given, through the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), of fourth dose over fifty years. At the meeting of health ministers on Tuesday I made a proposal in the first speech during the debate on this subject. I have asked my fellow Europeans not to proceed in scattered order, but to evaluate, on the basis of scientific evidence, a single orientation to be maintained in all European countries. In fact, a difference between European countries, which honestly does not seem to be understandable, does not help us to give a positive message about this vaccination campaign. My proposal was well received by a very large part of the Union and the meeting ended with a mandate to the European Commissioner to hear the European centre for disease prevention and control (ECDC) and the European medicines Agency (EMA) to arrive in a short time, possibly seven days, at a unified proposal on this subject. It is a proposal that we should clearly assess clearly at scientific level, because I repeat that these choices are not of a political nature, but of a scientific nature. As for the case of antibody response, I have carefully seen the work done in the Senate, but I would like to point out that our CTS has repeatedly expressed an opinion that the antibody titre is not sufficient to evaluate the immune response of a single person and will obviously be a topic on which we will still have to confront our scientific community. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the vaccination campaign is and remains the decisive tool with which to deal with this different phase of the Covid and here again I would like to invite all people who have not yet taken the third dose in our country to do so, because it is particularly important to have a higher level of protection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u69	Senator Zaffini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u70	Mr President, Minister, we do not have much confidence in what Europe will be able to decide and, in my modest role, I also have little confidence in what can come out of the CTS, given what has happened over the last two years. However, I would like to point out that there are two roads, there are no more: either we choose to allow the virus to circulate freely, since it is suspected from several quarters that it has become endemic, as I think we are doing, since the number of swabs has fallen and we have left the barriers of entry, or the other way is to continue to vaccinate the population in order to hinder the emergence of the virus in the organism. However, we must do so with second-generation vaccines, which, for example, guarantee a pulmonary cell memory, as is urged on the most part. The old vaccine is absolutely useless: the second dose had a much shorter duration than the first, the third (booster) had one of seven to ten weeks in viral coverage and the fourth would be even less immunizing. Mr Minister, let us carry out the study and urge the development of our vaccine, that of the Higher Institute of Health, which acts on protein N; as you know, we have talked about it and we have also tried an agenda in this regard. I had an interview with Dr. Brusaferro from whom I didn't get all this enthusiasm. It is necessary, Minister, to increase awareness and greater protagonism on your part. During this last period of virus management, probably in limine mortis of the pandemic, Minister, you will be able to rediscover some hope. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u71	Senator Bagnai has the right to explain question 3-03220 on the additional monitoring procedure on vaccine products against Covid-19 for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u72	Mr President, Minister, the European legislator lays down a principle of common sense: at the very least one knows about a drug, how much less clinical evidence is available, the greater the cure must be to monitor possible adverse reactions. It is called additional monitoring, was introduced into European legislation in 2010 and has been regulated in Italy since 2015. Additional monitoring requires two quite obvious things: firstly, it is recommended that healthcare professionals report any suspected adverse reactions; secondly, pharmaceutical companies should clearly describe in the leaflets how healthcare professionals and patients can report side effects. It is a pity not to take the opportunity when the European legislator regulates himself according to common sense; we have missed this opportunity in the case of Regulation 953 of 2021, which, when introducing the green pass, insists on the need not to make discriminatory use of it (a blatantly careless indication in our country). Unfortunately, the rules on additional monitoring are also substantially disapplied during the pandemic, in particular from the website of the European medicines agency (EMA) turns out that all Covid-19 vaccines currently used in Italy are subject to this monitoring, for the simple reason that their marketing authorisation is conditional, pursuant to Regulation No 507 of 2006. These were, in fact, medicines that met unsatisfied medical needs and therefore had to be introduced on the market, but for which there was not yet complete data on safety and efficacy and therefore had to be monitored more carefully. However, the explanatory leaflets of the Covid-19 vaccines in Italy contravene the express provisions of the EMA, not clearly reporting the adverse effects. In addition, there are no initiatives of the Italian Drug Agency (Aifa) aimed at raising awareness of health care personnel in relation to their obligations in the context of additional monitoring, nor, more generally, whether and how the Aifa has undertaken the obligation to initiate additional monitoring programmes. Aifa's inertia in raising public awareness is remarkable. Let me give you an example: the last tweet in which the Agency mentions the pharmacovigilance portal www.vigidruga.it dates back to 23 November 2018. Throughout the pandemic the Aifa has basically kept quiet, as if the reports were a nuisance to be discouraged and not a valuable and indispensable element to ensure the progress of science. I guess negationism of side effects seemed like a good idea to someone. Instead it is a bad idea and a serious error of communication because it arouses and legitimizes the most irrational fears. That is why, Minister, we are interested in your clarification of additional monitoring. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u73	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u74	Mr President, as I have already said, vaccines have indeed been an essential tool for opening up a new phase in our country, in Europe, but also at a global level. I really believe that the numbers are very clear and very net worldwide. We have exceeded 11 billion doses administered on a planetary basis. We're talking about a really impressive number. In Italy we will arrive in the next hours to exceed 136 million doses administered. From every corner of the world all the studies that arrive testify how it is an effective and safe vaccine that is really helping to open a different phase. The EMA shall, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States, draw up and regularly update the list of medicinal products to be subject to additional monitoring which, as is well known, is a dedicated system to improve the reporting of adverse reactions. I would remind you that all healthcare professionals active in the vaccination campaign against Covid-19 at our vaccination centres, general medical studies or even pharmacies have been adequately trained for both the administration and monitoring of possible reactions. Reports for adverse events are therefore managed directly by healthcare professionals who are well aware of the procedures in case of adverse events and how to send the relevant reports. Aifa has contributed with the Higher Institute of Health to the implementation of training courses that specifically dealt with the form for reporting suspected adverse reactions. I remember that vaccine surveillance activities are based on a concurrent passive and active pharmacovigilance system: the first one focused on the surveillance of spontaneous reports of suspects; the second one on the collection of information through appropriate independent studies. Spontaneous reporting comes from both professional health professionals and citizens and is included in the national pharmacovigilance network by local pharmacovigilance managers who contribute, together with regional centres and Aifa, to the proper functioning of the national pharmacovigilance system. This activity is an obligation governed by the decree of 30 April 2015 and aims to quickly highlight potential new security information that deserves to be further deepened and studied. I confirm that the additional monitoring of anti-Covid vaccines is in the working state and - as reported on the institutional site of Aifa - includes among other things the following actions: the daily monitoring of reports of suspected adverse event after vaccination for Covid-19 by a dedicated team of health managers operating in the surveillance area of Aifa, characterized by the continuous interaction between the various actors involved in their collection and management and the reporters, in order to increase the amount of information according to standardised criteria and commonly accepted at global level; the invitation to report within the page dedicated to the anti-Covid vaccines present on the portal; the activities of deepening of specific safety issues, in collaboration with the regional pharmacovigilance centres and the regional prevention departments subject to specific publications of the reports of the surveillance of the vaccines Covid-19; the promotion and study of a development of epidemiology in collaboration with the Higher Institute of Health on the safety of the vaccines againstCovid-19. If we are gradually reappropriating our living spaces and freedom at European level these days, it is certainly a matter of effective and safe vaccines. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Bagnai to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u75	Mr Minister, with an invisible smile because of the mask, your answer does not go beyond all my perplexities, honestly, but that is not a problem. I think the growing signs of dissatisfaction from the courtrooms are a little more problematic. Let me give you an example: the Council of Administrative Justice of the Sicilian Region, in its ordinance n. 351 of 2022, expressly mentions the inadequacy of active and passive pharmacovigilance among the reasons for not manifesting unfoundedness of the question of constitutional legitimacy of Article 4 of Decree-Law n. 44 of 2021, in the part where this provides for the vaccination obligation for health workers. This is because, according to the Constitutional Court, the mandatory nature of a vaccine is only legitimate if, among other things, it is not expected to adversely affect the patient's health, without prejudice to the consequences which appear normal and therefore tolerable. But in the absence of adequate pharmacovigilance, this assessment is in re ipsa foreclosed. I would like to spare you the list of judicial measures that are censoring the current pandemic-fighting facility. In particular, the theme of the balance between the right to health and that to work is the subject of an increasing number of ordinances of the TAR, which depreciate the logic of blackmailing underlying Decree-Law No 44 of 2021 - the same logic claimed yesterday with force and with the usual freshness by Minister D'Incà - taking sides, the courts, in defense of Article 1 of the Constitution. You see, Minister, the need to debate controversial issues is the incompressible essence of politics. By suffocating the debate in the parliamentary classrooms, you have only managed to move it to those of the courts, where the government is increasingly succumbing because there, unfortunately, Minister, it is not possible to pull right by putting the question of trust. I therefore wish you every success in your efforts, thanking you for it and for your willingness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u76	Senator Pirro has the right to explain question 3-03222 on measures to reduce waiting lists for health benefits for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u77	Minister, over the last two years, all our efforts have been aimed at countering the emergency of the Covid-19. Our entire health care system has been heavily impacted and has been dedicated to the care of Covid patients. This has meant, on the other hand, that in more or less long periods, depending on the various regions, all activities for visits and examinations related to all other diseases that were not the Covid have been suspended. This has had a major impact on the health of our fellow citizens, especially in the field of prevention, with a strong impact - for example - on reducing screening. Only in the field of cancer has this resulted on average a reduction, compared to the average performance of 2019, of more than 30 percent of the exams. The delay in diagnosis has also impacted, according to an estimate, on over 16,000 cases, which are later diagnosed with a prognosis that can become inauspicious and however with treatments that become longer and tiring. This is only in the field of oncology, because then the pathologies that have had repercussions are many and I think - for example - to the delay in the diagnosis of autism that so many problems can entail. As you know very well, the sooner you can identify cases, the more you can intervene and ensure a better life, especially for children. It is true that over the last two years we have allocated about one billion to deal with all these delays in two different measures, in 2020 and in the last budget law, and the regions had to draw up a regional operational plan for the recovery of waiting lists. Therefore, in the face of all this, I ask you what actions our Government intends to take in order to reduce the waiting lists as quickly as possible and if it is not considered appropriate to use the instrument of budgetary deviation to make more extensive support interventions, to remedy the problem and to increase the health staff that must be dedicated to this activity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u78	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Pirro and all those who subscribe to this question for putting forward an issue which I consider to be particularly crucial for the future of our National Health Service. There is no doubt that, during the different waves of the last two years not simple of pandemic, in the most difficult moments there have been delays in screening activities, in the activities of medical visits and also in the activities of surgical interventions that were not strictly urgent. It is a priority to work in the coming weeks - we are beginning to do so - within an epidemiological framework that we hope will no longer show the hospital pressure we have experienced in the past, with a strong activity to recover these delays. On two occasions - as you mentioned - we have allocated half a billion, in all about a billion, precisely for the recovery of these delays. The first time in Decree-Law No 104 of 2020, the famous decree "August," and the second time precisely with the last budget law, approved by the Chambers in December 2021. It is - as I said - a billion and, therefore, not a trivial but very significant figure. My personal opinion is that we will still have to invest on this front, because it is an absolute priority: the problem of waiting lists does not arise with the Covid, but was earlier. There is still a big issue we need to work on. More generally on resources, which you have put as a central theme, I would like to remind you that only two and a half years ago - I became Minister in September 2019 - there were 114 billion on the National Health Fund and on average one billion more per year. Today, with the budget law, we have reached 124 billion: 10 billion more in just over two and a half years. You've never seen such a significant leap of ordinary investment in our National Health Service. Then there are the PNRR's 20 billion and for the first time there is an investment on the PON health of 625 million. We are facing a change of course: the season of cuts is closed and we start investing again. More will certainly have to be done and my personal opinion is that, for this objective of strengthening our National Health Service, a very strong alliance between the Government and Parliament will be decisive, because there are more resources, but they will certainly need even more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pirro has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u79	Minister, I am comforted and satisfied with your reply. Know that for our part you will always have all the support regarding the objective to improve and support in any way the National Health Service. Together we must make our voice heard throughout the territory, because even in this case there are lagging regions that are exploiting the substantial resources that we have made available more quickly and more effectively, and there are others that seem to be a little less efficient from this point of view. So let us try to keep an eye on this and use all the tools we have at their disposal to push them to implement all the necessary interventions as quickly as possible, in this and in other fields. There is also the problem - for example - of the RSA that are closed and of visits. Despite the rules that we have agreed and made available together, there are still delays. So, let's keep our attention high on everything about health care. Let me just remind you of one last thing that does not concern the subject of the question, but a problem that has been raised to us and concerns dematerialised recipes, on which we need to intervene. We hope that this will happen as soon as possible. We have made a leap forward, unfortunately because of the Covid, but we do not take steps back now that the emergency is finally ending and it is emblematic that we are here to talk about it just today that is the last day of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u80	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u83	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I take advantage of the time available to me to bring to the attention of the House what is happening on the issue of non-vaccined teachers, following the publication of Decree-Law No 24 of 2022, the so-called reopening decree. Teachers who have chosen not to vaccinate will not be given the opportunity to return to class, but will be assigned to other tasks. It was initially thought that these tasks were of a different kind, with a classification, for example, as ATA personnel. In truth, however, in the answer to a question presented just yesterday to the House, the Government represented that the destination for these teachers, always with the aim of not allowing them to contact the children, could be that of programming, planning, or even updating and training, with consequent substitution for the didactic activity with alternates. Then some questions arise. The measure seems to be aimed at an educational activity, in the sense that it is diseducational to bring non-vaccine teachers back into the classroom. In truth, everything was born with Decree No 172 of 15 December 2021, which established the vaccination obligation for the staff of the public administration - therefore also for the teachers - with impossibility of return until 15 June. If it is considered diseducational the entry into class of non-Vaccinated teachers, I believe that in fact discrimination was applied upstream in order not to allow these teachers to carry out their activity and to choose freely whether to vaccinate or not. Among other things, is it known to everyone that, whether vaccinated or not vaccinated, it is possible to be a transmission vehicle, so the same hypothesis lapses that non-vacciners can cause damage and be stray mines, also because those who exclude the fact that substitutes cannot in turn be vehicles of transmission of the virus? One last question concerns the infamous teaching continuity. Now the observation is made that there would be two months of school; already for four months the children had alternate teachers, but I would like to represent that the teaching continuity was cut precisely in December. Finally, I would like to point out to the public, to the House and to the Government the need to restore the original situation. I would also like to offer a possible reading that could be to finish talking about teaching continuity, thinking that disciplinary continuity also exists.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u86	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, last January, the Gedi Group, which published through Exor, the safe of the Agnelli, the Republic, the Press, the 19th Century and several periodicals, was the subject of a seizure of EUR 30 million on an alleged scam to obtain early retirement from 70 employees of the group, who would not have been entitled to it. Between 2008 and 2020, the publishing sector emptied the oldest and most expensive news outlets with 1,145 early retirements. The average retirement pensions of journalists exceed 80,000 euros per year, those anticipated 78,000, often exceeding 100,000 euros. In 2020 the average contribution value for a journalist was about thirty years, compared to the thirty-seven of the former INPDAPs passed to the INPS. The management of the INPGI in recent years has not really been sensible has eaten the assets, dropped from 2.4 billion euros to just 900 million, with a dry loss of 1.5 billion (650,000 euros per day). But, as always happens in the homeland of relation capitalism, on 1 July 2020, while the INPS will succeed in the active and passive relationships of the INPGI one according to the last budget law, which regulates all forms of compulsory pension, nothing is mentioned on a contractual institution called "ex fixed," supplementary benefit, signed on 15 July 1985 by FIEG, FNSI and Intersind. In the founding act of that fund, separate management was created, where publishers had to pay a mandatory contribution of 1.5% of their wages, with similar arrangements for compulsory social insurance. The former fixed fund was recognised by Article 59 of Law No 449 of 1997, which defined it as the supplementary pension fund for professional journalists. As it is estimated that more than 2,000 journalists are involved, amounting to 140 million, the "ex-fixed" payment would allow to forfeit taxes of 60 million euros. As FNSI and FIEG have agreed that from 1 July this contribution will no longer converge in the INPGI fund, but in a newly created subject, it is still not known what will become of those 140 million euros. I close, Mr President, by thanking and recalling a sentence by Ernesto Rossi, taken from the volume "Settimo": do not steal it, perfect synthesis of the degeneration and interdependence of Italian capitalism with politics, industry, banks and large press, with a successful slogan: "privatising profits, socializing losses." As in the case of INPGI, they are subject to general taxation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-421.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.08 p.m.
