ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.41 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 19 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u3	The Conference of Heads of Group approved by a majority the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 30 May. In today's session, the Minister of the ecological transition will make an information in view of the G7 of the Ministers of Energy and Environment of 25-27 May 2022. The Groups will be able to speak for ten minutes; fifteen the Mixed Group. The debate on the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, already scheduled for today's agenda, will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting will also include, at 3 p.m., the discussion from the drafting seat of the draft law on the redefinition of the system of higher technical education, approved by the House of Deputies. The day of Thursday 26 May will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the annual law for the market and competition 2021, linked to the financial maneuver. On Monday 30 May, starting at 11 a.m., the aforementioned related competition bill will be discussed, if concluded by the Commission. The sitting does not include closing hours. The discussions were divided between the Groups for a total of five hours. At their request, the Brothers of Italy and Mixed Groups were assigned additional times for a total of fifty and forty minutes, respectively. The deadline for tabling amendments to the measure will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. On 31 May and 1 June the Assembly and the Commissions will not hold meetings at the request of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 30 May: [[Tuesday 24 May h. 16.30 - Statement by the Minister for the Environmental Transition in view of the G7 of the Ministers for Energy and Environment of 25-27 May 2022]] [[Wednesday, May 25 h. 9.30-20 - Doc. XXII- bis, n. 8 - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on Pathways of Treatment for Men Authors of Violence in Suffering and Gender Relations - Drawing of Law n. 2333 - Redefinition of Higher Technical Education System (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the writing site)]] [[Monday, 30 May h. 11 - Draft law n. 2469 - Annual law for the market and competition 2021 (linked to the budget maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) (where concluded by the Commission)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 2469 (annual law for the market and competition 2021) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2469 (annual law for the market and competition 2021) [[M5S 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 45' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 35' Mixed 40' FdI 50' IV-PSI 24' CAL (Constitution, Environment, Work)-Alternative-PC-IDV 23' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u7	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, we would like to ask for a change to the timetable. In fact, we have already asked for this for a couple of weeks, and again last week in the presence of President Draghi. We believe that, in view of this extraordinary European Council, which will discuss issues which are of particular importance at this historic moment - I am referring to common European defence, aid to Ukraine and all measures to combat the energy crisis - the President of the Council must come to Parliament to agree with it on the way forward in Europe. Therefore, we would ask that President Draghi's communications be included on Thursday's calendar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u10	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, I am following my colleague from Movimento 5 Stars because it is in fact particularly strange not to have imagined listening to President Draghi on the eve of an extraordinary European Council, whose discussion will focus on issues of military and energy strategic importance I would say. This is a time when the President-in-Office of the Council, with total nonchalance and unpredicted rituality, writes to the Chambers to urge them to work and to restrict the time of approval of decrees and draft laws on the calendar. We call for the President to report before the European Council with the same irritality; we do not need his subsequent information, of which we will read extensively in all newspapers and reports. We need the President to come here and tell us what he intends to bring to Europe on behalf of this Parliament and on behalf of the people we all represent, at a time when we continue to talk about the sending of weapons and the modification of the energy structure and the main axes of the Italian social and economic system. We want the President to find the space, the way and the time, exactly as we do every day, to think about the interests of the Italian people and not that of other peoples, whom he obviously favours over us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u11	Senator Dessì, do you, like Senator Castellone, ask for communications to be made on Thursday?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u12	Exactly for Thursday afternoon. Given that the question time and other initiatives of this House have been deleted, I would ask the President of the Council to come and make communications to which the vote on resolutions by the parliamentary groups will follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u15	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we take note of the 5 Star Movement proposal, which has already been put forward at the last Conference of Leaders. I do not even know whether such a proposal should be put to the vote, because at a time when the President of the Council or Ministers are being asked to schedule communications or information, it is assumed that they will be available. At a time when, for various problems, this availability is not there, we believe it is difficult to vote on such a request. If the proposal were adopted, but there was no such availability, how could we schedule the conduct of communications? I would like to reflect on this. If you consider that we must proceed at all costs to the vote, since President Draghi is not available, we can do nothing but vote against it, without going into the substance of the request for the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u18	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I think it is quite serious that a majority force (because this is the 5 Star Movement, i.e. a majority force supporting this Government) decides to vote against the timetable (because, in fact, it does), knowing that, among other things, on a proposal from a Minister whom they express to the Government (I refer to Minister D'Incà), Prime Minister Draghi will make communications, on which Parliament will vote, in the week of 20-24 June (I believe that the Premier will come to the Senate on 21 June and will go to the House on 22). Honestly, I think it is quite serious that in several sessions of the Senate you are risking putting under the government with the vote on the calendar, which, among other things, provides for the examination of a whole series of measures. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Mr Santangelo, what is the proposal? I am saying that I am not in favour of your proposal to vote against a timetable which provides for the examination of all measures related to the PNRR and the reason why this Government was born. Every time we vote on the calendar with the risk of going under, because, in addition to being a majority force, they are - unfortunately - also a relative majority force, so they also call us into question in relation to the vote on the calendar. I will of course vote in favour of the proposed timetable and agreed with the Government and Minister D'Incà, belonging to the Movimento 5 Stars, and would ask colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars to do the same. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u21	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, it would be enough for the Italians to be able to see the debate that has not been held at the Conference of the Leaders and what is taking place now so that they can realize the state of this majority and if it is possible that a reduced majority in these conditions can govern a country struggling with an economic crisis that risks being disastrous and with war at the gates and borders of Europe. The theme of these last days was the letter that President Draghi sent to you and, through you, to the group leaders, whom we call diplomatically irritating, while others used other adjectives. Many of the Members of all the groups have been a little upset because the President of the Council seemed to give homework to Parliament, establishing what it should do, in what times and in what ways. I too am a little concerned and I recognise, Mr President, that I have always tried to defend the prerogatives of the Senate. However, after listening to the debate at the Conference of the Leaders and that in this House, I am concerned about the emptying of the role of Parliament by not so much the Government, but the Parliament itself or - better - the parliamentary majority that decides to give up discussing the most important issues affecting our national and international communities. I would like to give a few examples, which we have already heard at the Conference of Leaders. We asked for, for example, one simple thing: Thursday was the question time and the presence of Minister Patuanelli. Since there is an emergency of swine fever and there is an alarm in Italy about the consequences of its spread, which naturally alerts people after two years of pandemics, we have proposed to allow the question time, so that the Minister can respond not to our concerns, but to those of the people who are at home. It cannot be done, the majority has decided: this issue, which everyone is talking about, the Senate must not be concerned. The most serious thing is that we are witnessing this theater of hypocrisy, staged by the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, not alone, but certainly first, so they say one day yes and the other that it is essential that Prime Minister Draghi report to the Chambers. I have here with me a copious press review, which concerns only the last two weeks, with very heavy quote statements from the major representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars and not only, but also from other parties of the left and the majority. I quote a few: "The Premier comes to the Chamber and speaks to the Country" or "Conte": the Chambers must vote on arms. When will we vote? What are you going to do, in addition to this false protest that you have just staged, so that the Chambers can vote? It is not enough to vote against the timetable to wash one's conscience. What are you going to do to restore the centrality of Parliament so that we can discuss what President Draghi is going to discuss, discuss and discuss in Brussels on 30 and 31 May? Colleagues, do not tell me that this is an informal meeting, because informal meetings on such important issues simply do not exist. There are no informal meetings, when - I read from the official website of the European Commission - the Heads of State and Government are called to discuss four topics: the first is Ukraine, the second is energy, the third is defence and the fourth is food security. Well, the Senate of the Republic has decided that all these issues, which the whole world is talking about, are not affected. We are calm, because the Minister for relations with Parliament and the Government have reassured us, saying that we will talk about this in a month's time. We'll talk about it in a month! Meanwhile, nobody knows what will happen in Italy, Europe and the world, from here to 21 June. The urgent need to report to Parliament, which is on the news and on the web, but here it leaves no trace, because you think you deceive us and the Italians, simply by voting against the calendar. Take on the consequences of what you say and really put the government in crisis on these issues. Have the courage to show your muscles! Instead, you are content with a few words, which leave the time they find. Here not only is there a legal obligation for the President of the Council to report to the Chambers - a legal obligation! - but there is a huge question of political opportunity. On the other hand, Parliament has decided to sink itself. That is why, Mr President, I repeat that what I am most concerned about is not the interference of the executive power in the legislative process, which is a long-standing issue and which perhaps we will not be able to resolve. What worries me is the surrender of Parliament and the majority of the government's will to decide for everyone. Even the haste with which President Draghi sent that letter is intended to say to Parliament: we urgently need the Senate and the House of Deputies to give us the delegation to decide. That draft competition law is, in fact, essentially, in its most important parts, a delegation to the Government. This is what happens: the government tells Parliament that it is urgent to legislate in its place and Parliament decides that it has no interest in discussing the most important issues, which concern Italians, European citizens and citizens all over the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u24	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I will be very brief, because the previous speakers have expressed their views on political opportunities. We belong to a majority in government which, of course, has, as far as political opportunity is concerned, positions that are sometimes very different and wide apart. Personally, I do not allow myself to question the choices of my fellow Members who decide to put to the vote a subject which we discussed in today's Conference of Leaders, to which, unfortunately - and I apologise yet - I did not take part, but it was for me that Senator Gallone did so and in the debate, which my colleague, Mr Ciriani, also acknowledged, a timetable was agreed. We will stick to that timetable by making our own assessment of political opportunities: President Draghi was present in this House last week, he spoke about war, he spoke about energy and he spoke - if I recall correctly - about food security. We have brought our observations to the attention of President Draghi, albeit in limited time. We too would like President Draghi to be here every week; we too would like President Draghi to give us his opinion on how the government intends to deal with these changes every time something changes, but I believe that the place of election where these choices should be made - and must be made either by a majority or by unanimity, if possible - is the Conference of the Leaders, in the presence of the President of the Senate, who directs it. [[Applause]] At a time when each of us has made a commitment in that Chamber, which is the right place to draw up the timetable for the work of this House, except for proposals relating to a political opportunity and a political choice to evaluate the work of this House, which is not my place to comment, each of us obviously makes its choice. Ours is, once again, to stick to the timetable which has been agreed in common and by a majority in its natural place, namely the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u27	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak only to confirm the vote of the Democratic Party Group in the sense of approving the timetable defined by the Conference of Leaders. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to call attention and political prudence - I also say this to my friends in the Movimento 5 Stars - because, if this reference to the presence of the President of the Council - which I must say in the last period, as President Bernini reminded us now, has already been in the Chamber and we know that he will return - should lead to a non-unanimous majority vote on the calendar, it would not be a good wish for the near future of the majority in government. I therefore call to the attention and political prudence, which is perhaps the first virtue that a politician must try to exercise. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u30	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind my colleagues quickly, if you will allow me, that this House is sovereign and that - alas - we are in a war. We are experiencing a war that President von der Leyen today, with her statements, sharpens by saying that Russia is a threat to world order. So before the European Council I call on all my colleagues not to see divisions at a time when there is a war that risks becoming a world conflict and to think carefully about the role of Parliament, the Presidency of the Council and the European Council, precisely because we are on this abyss and perhaps beyond. So I don't see any risk of the government falling, but I simply have to take these facts and evaluate them very carefully, because the historical moment is unique and can become terrifying. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u31	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, put forward by Senators Castellone, Dessì and Ciriani, to include, on next Thursday, the communications of Prime Minister Draghi in view of the extraordinary meeting of the European Council. (The vote was followed). As I find it difficult to count votes cast by show of hands, nor does it succeed in the Secretary Senators' finding a certain result, I have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senator Ciriani, to include the question time on next Thursday. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u32	The next item is the statement by the Minister for the Green Transition with a view to the G7 of the Ministers for Energy and the Environment of 25-27 May 2022. I call the Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity. I will inform you about what will happen in the next two days at the G7 meeting on energy and the environment and the state of play of the work so far. The key points of the agenda will be: establishing a global alliance for climate protection; promoting a clean, sustainable and inclusive energy transition; preserving biodiversity, strengthening resource efficiency activities and the circular economy; improving the sustainability of chemicals management; promoting the protection and sustainable use of the seas; improving the protection of marine biodiversity. These are the topics currently on the agenda of the meeting of the G7 countries' climate, energy and environment ministers, to be held on 26 and 27 May in Berlin, as part of the annual German Presidency. The Ministers of the G7 are called upon to adopt, at the end of the two working days, a statement reflecting a transversal and multisectoral approach, highlighting the interdisciplinary nature of these topics. There is a statement under construction - as you always know, in these international commitments we work on building at least one base so that we can converge over the two days of work - which recognises the urgent need to address the major global challenges linked to climate change and energy transition, for the future to zero emissions, biodiversity loss and pollution damage. The German Presidency intends to promote further emission reduction commitments compared to those adopted during 2021, through the forums you have followed (G7, G20 and COP26 in Glasgow). This should not necessarily be done by the G7 countries in the form of a direct review of the general objectives, but for example by strengthening sectoral targets or interventions on specific sources of emissions, such as methane, which is quite focal in the debate. The recent presentation of Repower EU goes in this direction: according to this proposal, which responds to the geopolitical situation we are experiencing, the European Union will have to accelerate on energy efficiency and renewables objectives. This does not mean a formal change to the 2030 target today, but if the implementation of new targets, if agreed, were completed by all Member States, we could collectively achieve a higher level of reduction than formally approved. Beyond these internal considerations in the G7 field, what we have highlighted as Italy is that the only renewed unilateral commitment of the G7 countries to increase ambition is not enough. We need a strong call, in particular to all large broadcasters, especially members of the G20, to present the new reduction targets in line with the maintenance of global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius and the commitments made in Glasgow. An important proposal of the German Presidency concerns the establishment of a climate club that is not limited only to the G7 countries, but is also extended to other G20 emitting groups and, more generally, to other countries, both emerging and developing, strongly engaged in the fight against the climate. This proposal aims to align climate policies and measures, especially in the industrial sectors, by accelerating the cut in emissions in sectors where this is more difficult and, at the same time, preventing market distortions and carbon leakage. In German intentions, the climate club could be developed on the following three pillars: first, the common measurement of emissions and alignment of the price of CO2, linked to materials produced, to ensure the comparability of climate policies, using instruments such as the Carbon border adjustment mechanism (CBAM); second, the progressive transformation of industrial sectors through common approaches of decarbonisation of companies, through instruments such as the Hydrogen Action Pact (Hydrogen action pact); third, the development of international partnerships for decarbonisation of the energy sector in emerging economies and developing countries, through the elimination of the use of coal and the progressive spread of renewables. It is an ambitious initiative, which requires a diplomatic and technical effort not indifferent to put in place the whole complex system of cooperation. At the moment, it presents some critical issues about the feasibility of the initiative in such a short time; the idea would be the presentation in the May ministerial and the launch at the June summit, taking into account that there are different approaches, that still exist within the G7, regarding the tools and policies employed to reduce emissions in strategic sectors for the economy of the different countries. Almost all members of the G7 therefore gave rise to a willingness to discuss the German initiative, one of the priorities of Chancellor Scholz, but avoiding to launch it in its entirety at the next ministerial meeting. For the energy sector, a determination has emerged to accelerate the transition to a zero-emission net future by 2050 while maintaining the safety and accessibility of energy systems, including through the rapid expansion of renewable energy and energy efficiency. The clean energy transition must ensure stability and affordability to energy supply, while at the same time reducing the security and climate risks associated with dependence on fossil fuels, preserving industrial competitiveness and protecting final energy consumers. Let us now see some specific aspects that will be dealt with at the G7 meeting on energy and which will be the subject of the press release. The first concerns methane, with the objective of reaffirming the commitment defined in the Global methane pledge, adopted in Glasgow, aimed at reducing global emissions of anthropogenic methane by 30% below the 2020 levels by 2030. The German Presidency has proposed to the G7 countries a commitment to develop national action plans in the field of the reduction of methane emissions. Moreover, Italy has proposed - and the G7 membership has accepted the proposal - to consider also the role of waste to fuel technologies, such as Biomethane, as a valuable opportunity to mitigate methane emissions. The second item on the agenda for the energy sector concerns the impact of Russian aggression and energy security. The German Presidency has taken up the language and content set out in the joint declaration of the G7 Energy Ministers following the Russian aggression against Ukraine. In particular, it was shown that the situation is causing strong reverberations on international energy markets and how it has led to further significant increases in oil, gas, coal and mineral prices and, indirectly, electricity, as well as goods, services and foodstuffs worldwide. The serious concern about the burden this creates for families, particularly the most vulnerable, as well as for businesses and industries, particularly in European countries, has been reported. Italy has emphasized that the high prices have impacted, not only on the developing countries, but also on the more mature economies that have high net imports. The German Presidency - as proposed by Italy from the early stages of the G7 negotiations - has recognised the need to consider effective measures to stop the increase in gas prices, as a result of extraordinary market conditions. As you know, we have for a long time pushed Europe for the price cap: these measures are the subject of an important debate at European level with the Member States. The third item on the agenda for the energy sector concerns subsidies to fossil fuels. With regard to subsidies to fossil fuels, including oil, gas and coal, the Presidency aims to reaffirm its commitment to gradually eliminate national subsidies, so-called inefficient, for fossil fuels by 2025. This commitment is in line with the decision of the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition in Italy, which provides for the gradual elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies between 2022 and 2025. The gradual elimination of inefficient subsidies to fossil fuels frees public resources, which can be used to support a transition to clean energy and can help reduce competitive disadvantages for the most innovative energy technologies. I would point out that under the G7, inefficient subsidies to fossil fuels are those which do not have temporary characteristics, which are not intended for the most vulnerable consumers or which do not contribute to a just energy transition. In order to speed up the elimination of these subsidies, international transparency is expected to be strengthened, good practices shared, monitoring and updating on the progress achieved in 2023, as well as an assessment of possible actions to develop joint public inventories of existing fossil fuel subsidies. On the Italian side, it has been pointed out that there are no efficient subsidies to fossil fuels and that it is therefore appropriate to provide for rapid acceleration at international level in order to achieve the objectives of Paris. In addition, Italy has pointed out that, where joint public inventories of existing fossil fuel subsidies are to be developed, it will also be necessary to share methods of classification of fossil fuel subsidies and uniform and shared economic estimation criteria. The fourth point on the energy agenda concerns hydrogen. The central role of renewable, low-carbon hydrogen and its derivatives, such as ammonia, has been highlighted in order to achieve a zero-emission net future. Hydrogen is seen as a key element towards full decarbonisation of economies. To this end, the German Presidency proposes to sign and launch the G7 Hydrogen action pact, an initiative to accelerate and strengthen joint action in the field of hydrogen, as well as to foster synergies and rationalisation of the activities carried out in the various existing multilateral platforms. On the Italian side, the priority for renewable green hydrogen and the reference to its role in decarbonising also the hard to abate industrial sectors, confirming, at the same time, the importance of international collaboration to promote the development and definition of common sectoral standards, in order to promote the production, use, trade and transport of hydrogen. As you know, under the PNRR, all investments, as the Commission dictates, are planned for green hydrogen. Other countries produce hydrogen in other ways. At this moment it is important to have a metric of use, storage and exchange that is as European as possible. The fifth point in the energy sector concerns the Industrial Decarbonisation Agenda, the so-called Industrial Decarbonisation Agenda: the G7 Presidency promotes the decarbonisation of industry, particularly in the hard-to-be sectors, and favours climate neutrality in the global industrial system. Therefore, the Presidency intends to support the G7 initiative dedicated to decarbonisation of industrial sectors, the so-called Industrial Decarbonisation Agenda, launched in 2021, during the G7 Presidency of the United Kingdom; it was dedicated to strengthening cooperation between G7 members, including on regulation, standards, investment, procurement and research related to industrial decarbonisation. IDA aims to promote the development of an international definition for the sustainable production of steel and cement so-called near zero carbon dioxide, in order to send a signal to international markets. In addition, IDA aims to promote the development of a package of measures - which in Europe are called tool boxes - including those related to carbon pricing and the development of standard definitions for the production of almost zero emission materials, also in the light of the report prepared by the International energy agency dedicated to decarbonisation of industry in the G7 countries. The IDA proposal, which will be one of the annexes to the Ministerial Final Communiqué, aims at developing industrial transition plans and policies and promoting investment and financing for demonstration projects. It also aims at the development of financial mechanisms for technological development and the launch of advanced international collaborations for the decarbonisation of industry at global level. You understand that it is important to us because we are one of the main manufacturing countries and therefore this discussion for Italy is very important. The sixth energy issue of the G7 agenda is zero-emission buildings. In confirming the central role of energy efficiency in the construction sector, the German Presidency proposed a step-by-step approach to promote, among the various technologies, the installation of new zero-emission heating systems and/or with a high share of renewable energy from 2025 onwards. In order to reduce the carbon emissions of our existing buildings, an increase in the rate of renovation and retrofitting is expected, with particular attention to buildings with the worst performances and public buildings. All G7 countries are therefore invited to introduce national policies aimed exclusively at predicting the development of new zero-emission buildings by 2030. Particular attention is paid to the potential of buildings as possible storage of carbon dioxide through the use of construction materials aimed at this purpose. On the Italian side, support was expressed for the decarbonisation of buildings in 2050, in line with the National Strategy for the renovation of buildings. In this respect, Japan, the USA and Canada have, on the other hand, called for less stringent commitments. The seventh point of the energy area is renewables, on the agenda for the next few days. Stressing the need for greater and rapid growth in the spread of renewable energy at global level, the German Presidency proposes that the G7 undertake to remove the barriers and obstacles that currently prevent or slow down the expansion of renewable energy, for example, in the framework of planning and authorisation procedures, market structuring, network operation, tax incentives, infrastructure investments necessary for the integration of high shares of variable renewables. We are all firmly convinced of the need for a strong acceleration, because we have made important international commitments. It is clear that the installation of renewable energy is only part of the challenge. Another important part is an intelligent network capable of managing, sorting and above all bearing loads, given the increases in power. Another part, the third and last, is that of accumulation, since these sources are not programmable. So the renewables chapter requires an important programming and vision. In order to start a path towards zero net emissions by 2050, the G7 countries provide public funding for renewable energy, in order to promote the level of private investment. From the Italian side it has been manifested convinced support to the acceleration of the development of the renewables; a greater focus is required in the final communique on the topic of the research and the development in these fields, obviously in particular for the accumulation, that it needs great investments, and also in part for the networks. The eighth point concerns the decarbonisation of energy systems. The Presidency has proposed the phase-out target for coal by 2030, which is broadly in line with our PNIAC, even the one that is not yet up to date at the Fit for 55. Let us say that we have done the tasks a little better than European cousins; we have a fraction of energy produced from smaller coal than other European countries. The German side proposed a commitment to achieve climate neutrality in the electricity sector by 2035, in line with what was hoped for by the decarbonisation scenarios of the International Energy Agency. This is an ambitious commitment for our country, but also for the other members of the G7. The negotiations on this point at the present time are still open, but there is a general consensus to go in this direction with this chronoprogramma. Then there are some cross-cutting issues in the areas of climate and energy. The first is the so-called Just energy transition partnership. Strong and concrete support for emerging and developing countries to accelerate their energy transition has become a priority of the G7 countries, also in the light of recent commitments made in Glasgow. The development of international partnerships to assist developing countries and emerging countries on the model designed for South Africa and announced at COP26 is a tool identified by the entire G7 membership and supported by partner countries to accelerate the exit from coal. On this initiative, multilateral banks, the private sector and potentially philanthropies will be called upon to make a substantial contribution through different financial instruments and capacity building in response to the needs and priorities of the beneficiaries. It is the intention of the German Presidency - and there is our strong support for this - to launch new partnerships with Indonesia, Vietnam, Senegal and India, because of their political interest and the leadership role that these countries could play in the energy and climate areas of their respective geographical areas. Another intermediate and transversal point between climate and energy concerns the road transport sector. With regard to the decarbonisation of the transport sector, Germany has immediately stressed the central role played by this sector in reducing emissions, in order to maintain the temperature within the famous 1.5 degrees Celsius. In this regard, a strong commitment by the G7 countries to promote the growth of electric vehicles is being discussed, with the aim of proceeding to have all new cars and vans (so light transport) at zero emissions within the next decade (the 1930s). On this aspect we have emphasized the Italian commitment to favor a fast decarbonization of the automotive sector, highlighting, in line with the position expressed in the parallel European negotiation relative to the Fit for 55, the need to identify different timings between cars and vans, suggesting respectively 2035 for the cars and 2040 for the vans. This approach would allow an ambitious, but fair, transaction to be launched on national specificities with regard to the development of the necessary infrastructure, the adaptation of the production system to new technologies and the transition from the production of internal combustion engine components to the production and management of electrical engine equipment. The discussion is open; we expect a final text very close to our positions; on the Italian side it was requested not only to refer to electrification, but also to sustainable fuels such as methane and innovative technologies such as hydrogen, which also make a strong contribution with the endothermic engine to decarbonization. At least in the transition phase they are to be considered. The last chapter relates to the environment. The themes that will constitute the environmental part of the press release will be articulated according to the topics that I am going to list there (in conclusion, few pages are missing). The first of these topics is to protect and preserve biodiversity. G7 Ministers intend to engage globally to lower the biodiversity loss curve by 2030, including through ambitious and realistic global agreements, strengthening the commitments of international conventions to protect and conserve at least 30% of global land and 30% of the global ocean. It's the famous thirty by thirty, 30 times 30. The G7 countries also undertake to review their national biodiversity strategies to reflect new ambitious targets, taking due account of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda and the climate agenda, including nature-based solutions. Italy strongly supports the global framework on biodiversity post 2020 and has therefore undertaken to play an active role since the beginning of this process, both at international level and at Union level, while stressing that the formal context in which this framework will be developed must be that of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity (CBD). Italy will also be called upon to discuss and agree on a European position on this issue. Nevertheless, Italy shares the G7 approach, which supports the political stimulus action, given the efforts to be made by all sectors of society represented to achieve the ambitious objectives of protecting biodiversity. The G7 can play a significant role in advancing some of the key objectives of the post 2020 GBF and in proposing accountability mechanisms to all states. Within the Conference on Biodiversity and any other framework of the United Nations, any proposal should avoid duplication of mechanisms and uncertainty about the obligations and key actors responsible. In addition, at national level, the approach should aim at integrating existing plans, avoiding duplication and aligning with existing processes and measures. It should be borne in mind that post 2020 will involve a new ten-year programming at national level. Point 2 of the environmental section concerns the protection, conservation and sustainable use of oceans. The statement reaffirms the essentiality for the life on earth of healthy oceans, productive and free from pollutants and the importance of their protection, their conservation, their restoration and their sustainable use. The press release also highlights how the efforts made so far under the 2030 Agenda - Sustainable development goal No. 14 in particular of the Convention on Biodiversity in the UNEA Resolution and as provided for in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea have not met the targets set (they lag behind). The Group therefore stresses the fundamental role of implementing these resolutions at regional level, in particular through regional conventions on the sea and regional fisheries management programmes. With this in mind, the Ministers of the G7 countries welcome the UNEA Resolution, the so-called End plastic pollution, concerning the development of a legally binding instrument governing the management of the entire plastic production cycle. Ministers recognise the serious danger to the health of the oceans also resulting from illegal fishing, which is not registered or regulated, and renew their commitment to end these activities through increased international cooperation and enhanced control and monitoring. Finally, they underline the opportunity to regulate in advance future mining activities of the seabed, in view of their potentially devastating impact on marine ecosystems. The main results expected from the Ministerial Meeting on Oceans and Seas are: to increase efforts at national and international level to protect at least 30% of the oceans globally by 2030 through the establishment of protected marine areas that are ecologically representative, adequately interconnected and managed in an effective and fair way and in which a substantial part of the coastal waters of their countries are included. Second point: to increase substantially and sustainably the economic commitment to the realization of nature based solutions concerning biodiversity and climate. Third: to conclude by 2022 negotiations for the development of a legally binding instrument under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdictions (i.e. international waters). Italy considers the document to be acceptable; it considers it to be consistent with the objectives and targets set out in the European Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 and the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. Fourth point in the environmental field: the press release addresses the issue of the international approach to the management of chemicals and waste, framing it as one of the main factors that have led to the global pollution crisis, referring to the sustainable development goal 12 for chemicals and waste (in particular the fourth task). It is therefore proposed to step up global action against pollution and to achieve the objective of proper management of chemicals and waste. The expected results are: the establishment of an expert group to dialogue with the Science-policy panel set up by UNEA; the reduction of exposure to lead through the identification of priority areas of action for cooperation with existing international initiatives; the adoption of an ambitious framework at the Fifth International Conference on the Management of Chemicals; the promotion of the implementation of the Global Harmonised System for the Classification and Labelling of Chemicals in Countries where it has not yet been adopted; the development and activities of capacity building and technical cooperation between States; and the implementation of obligations under the Stockholm Convention, in particular with regard to the elimination of the use of PCBs, so-called polychlorinated carcinogens. Italy shares the concept of global pollution crisis, as it allows to emphasize with sufficient emphasis the global nature and urgency of the theme and the maintenance of the term waste, together with the connection between chemical and waste, because the term is widely contained in the Global chemicals outlook II, to which reference is made, in line with the international processes of all the new policies. There are two short points missing to close the entire agenda, always in the environment sector. The fifth is to increase resource efficiency and transform economies towards circularity. The G7 Environment Communiqué addresses the issue of circular economy and resource efficiency. The text underlines the importance of the circular economy and resource efficiency in responding to the various environmental challenges, in particular the fight against climate change and the conservation of biodiversity. As a follow-up to the Bologna roadmap, the G7 countries adopt a new three-year work programme, the Berlin roadmap, developed within the G7 Group and dedicated to the theme known as the Alliance on Resource Efficiency, which addresses with voluntary actions the urgent need to promote the efficiency of the circular economy's resources to help mitigate the multiple environmental crises. Italy has played an active role in the negotiation, also thanks to the work carried out during the Italian Presidency of the G7 of 2017, during which the roadmap of Bologna was approved, and during the Presidency of the G20 of 2021, during which the roadmap G20 was approved, the one on which we currently base our work. The last point on this long agenda - I hope not too boring - which I have tried to sum up, is the so-called supply chain, the supply chain, which is an essential problem. The G7 countries undertake to support a transition to environmentally sustainable supply chains, which are aligned with the objective of zero emissions and climate resilient, which reduce pollution, dissolve agricultural production from forest loss and soil degradation and use resources in a sustainable way, reducing the environmental impact of products and promoting circularity of the economy. The press release also mentions the role that private companies can and must play in achieving sustainability goals. Finally, the need to ensure legal clarity for businesses in all jurisdictions and to support major companies and small and medium-sized enterprises in order to facilitate the sustainability of supply chains is mentioned. In conclusion, the G7 countries intend to accelerate the transition to sustainable supply chains, which separate trade and agricultural production from deforestation and forest degradation. It is under discussion that the G7 undertakes to introduce due diligence requirements for forest raw materials at risk. In this context, Italy requested and obtained the inclusion in paragraph 26 of a reference to the environmental impact of products. As you will have understood, it is a large G7 with a very large agenda: energy and environment at times separated and sometimes closely interconnected. There has been a very long preparatory work: the so-called sherpas have worked very hard and are still working. We present ourselves with a picture, at the level of direction, all in all quite shared; I imagine there will be the last finishes in the next hours and in the last two days. This is the current state and I thank you for listening to me for this long time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u34	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the ecological transition. She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you said that this is an extraordinary European Council which is extremely full of content. Perhaps it would have been easier if some less had been foreseen, but we hope that there will be a sharing of themes and, above all, we will arrive at effective solutions. I refer to the recommendation of Prime Minister Draghi, who said that in the very short period we are committed to diversifying supplies. On behalf of Italy (but I believe for a while all the European countries) there are emissaries who have worked hard to close agreements, which have been made in order not to depend on Russian gas. I am referring clearly to the bilateral agreements that we have concluded with Algeria, Egypt, Angola, Congo, Qatar and so on. This is the so-called short-term action. In the medium and long term there is also what Prime Minister Draghi says is the strategic mission, namely the planning of renewable energies. Mr Cingolani, the issues are extremely complex and I imagine that it is easier for you to be a physicist than a politician because it must lead to a synthesis of opposing interests. I say this because in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism we have heard many stakeholders. Just on the subject of renewables, I do not hide them that, not later than a few days ago, two opposing positions have emerged in the transmission "Report" on RaiTre, in which she also participated. For one, like me, who is not a member of the industry and not even a long-term politician, finding the so-called synthesis point is not that simple. Many tell us that there are private investors available to invest 80 billion in a very short time (three, four or five years) to create substantially 60 gigawatts of new plants. This would reduce imports by half. Now I repeat what you said, since I believe you because you represent the government. We are part of this majority and I absolutely trust the position of a Minister who, moreover, in a public way, says that all this is absolutely not attainable. You said that on paper we could produce 60 gigawatts, but that the network is not smart enough to manage the flows available 24 hours a day. Forgive me if I'm not very technical, but the subject is not simple. Help me understand. The director of ENEL - you heard him - says that the situation would be exactly in opposite terms, because the Italian network is one of the most advanced in the world and, therefore, these blessed 60 gigawatts would be manageable. So in the next three years, as he says, having also foreseen EUR 10 billion of investments, all this would be possible. Everyone is talking about everything now, without having specific skills or knowledge and images when we then have to talk about energy diversification and tackle much more complex issues, on which, moreover, there are ideological positions: he understood perfectly what I mean, that is, the whole issue of nuclear power. [[Call the president back.]] I am beginning to conclude, because my time is running out. Minister, you are leading a very complex, extremely strategic and important transition, not only for Italy, but also for the role that we hope Italy will play in Europe. Clarity in communication and transparency... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . They're important, starting from the bottom. This is crucial, because otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation similar to that of the pandemic, with all the discussion we have heard, for two and a half years, about vaccines and everything else. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to draw up a very simple, transparent and serious communication plan which will help us to understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u37	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Cingolani for the list of all the declarations of goodwill that you are about to discuss in the coming days. Today we can truly say that the environmental crisis is real. We read a few days ago the report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the World Weather Organisation calls us for the climate emergency. We also know that the planet will actually have no problems, because it will be resilient, but we are risking a mass extinction, that of human beings. In recent days, India and Pakistan have experienced days of great heat, with temperatures ranging from 44 to 50 degrees Celsius. We at Movimento 5 Stars want to run towards a future that guarantees the protection of the next generations and to do this we must focus on environmental mitigation, as well as energy. I am thinking of a great boost for renewable energy, but we must also reduce all pollutants in the atmosphere, on the soil and in our waters. We have signed the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreements, COP 26 and Glasgow have drawn up a number of guidelines, as you will be doing these days, Minister, with your colleagues at the G7. But now we have to move on to the facts and run to implement them. We must be resilient and address the idea that the energy crisis must go for environmental conversion. In order to do this, Minister, it is essential that, together with your colleagues, you really have a common line, so that all countries act in the same way. I would like to use a sentence from President Draghi: in this case really whatever it takes, for the good of the new generations. We must also, of course, help companies with adequate funds. These policies, as you know, are in the soul of the Movimento 5 Stars and in fact we launched measures such as the superbonus 110 and energy communities and the former Prime Minister Conte fought for the Next generation EU. We heard, just a few days ago, that Europe too supports the measure on superbonus 110, which was nominated in three steps of the European policy lines. It is recommended that this measure should also be extended to businesses and that investment in energy saving and renewable energy be facilitated. Minister, it is essential to take the lead in the ecological and energy transition at the same time. We need to be consistent, disarming polluting and dangerous energy sources as soon as possible and moving towards a real conversion for all businesses, including agricultural ones. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u38	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u39	Minister, the G7 will talk about natural ecosystems, climate and energy, issues closely related to each other and in May 2020 the European Commission gave us a very valuable document to refer to, namely the Biodiversity Strategy by 2030, indicating precisely the path to be followed for economic recovery from the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic and to strengthen our resilience. It is said that natural ecosystems must be protected and degraded ones restored, because our health depends on the state of nature's health. Hence the need to extend protected areas to at least 30% on the sea and land and to create a network of protected areas. Nature, therefore, also becomes essential for adaptation and mitigation of the effects of climate change, as we also read in the European Union's strategy for adaptation to climate change, which promotes the use of nature-based solutions and, in particular, green and blue infrastructure. The most recent European soil strategy for 2030 is the most powerful tool for adapting to climate change: knowledge, management measures, land use hierarchy and coordination between states are some of the intermediate targets by 2030 with a view to the long-term goal of achieving healthy soils by 2050. The soil, among natural ecosystems, is the most underrated, although it depends on the life of the Planet thanks to the multitude of microorganisms that provide food, biomass, fibers and raw materials, regulate the cycles of water, carbon and nutrients and make life possible on Earth. We forget this every day: we have to thank the soil. The COP26, from which we expected an important change of pace, ended with weak decisions, including climate finance, a very lukewarm decision, and there was therefore a subsequent increase in gas prices, which was relaunched as the energy of the future, and the incredible inclusion in the taxonomy of nuclear and gas. Unfortunately, our country has not expressed itself clearly and decisively in this regard, despite the two referendums that concerned nuclear power and the consequent phase of decommissioning and management of radioactive waste, which is still unresolved. Then Russia has invaded Ukraine and, as we all know, this invasion, in addition to the humanitarian tragedy that we never wanted to live, has had an impact on our economy and the economy of the whole world and, while on the one hand continue the international commitments that should see us united about the destiny of the Earth, on the other we try to eliminate our energy dependence on Russia as soon as possible, thanks to the new European Repower plan, as if the Euro-Asian continent could follow two opposing strategies, for climate adaptation on the one hand and for energy survival on the other. Ours, however, is a peninsula, we will die if we do not create a union with the Euro-Asian continent. We will arrive at COP27 divided into camps: the Western world on the one hand, Russia and its allies on the other, and then the so-called indifferent. All this in a climate that only increases mistrust and mutual accusations, just at a time when the issue of solidarity should be addressed in order to face the climate challenge. I would also like to mention COP15, which was held in Côte d'Ivoire, to combat desertification. We need to focus our attention on the ground. In Italy ISPRA data tells us that soil consumption has not stopped, unfortunately, and we really have to do something because it increases: we consume almost 2 square meters of soil per second, causing loss of biodiversity, therefore of natural and agricultural areas. What did this government do on the ground? We MEPs have tabled draft laws on the ground: thirteen draft laws in the Environment and Agriculture Commissions which are firm. We auditioned 100. Let's pick up those bills and get to a point, because we have the maturity to be able to talk about land management, its protection and its ecosystem services. Not only that. This government also promotes agrivoltaics, transforming farmers into energy producers, in a country that has excellent agricultural products to protect. Not to mention the equivalent digestate that will desert the exceptional Italian agricultural land, and the simplifications on renewable installations without the prior identification of the suitable and unsuitable areas, that Europe has found itself forced to insert in the Repower EU to protect the areas of value. So as a criterion we identify these suitable areas. We come to the theme of the sea, to the eight kilometers of coast. Minister, I appreciate the fact that you have decided to include in the PNRR the sea and the project that I have sent you on the sea: I am referring to investment 3.5 on the restoration and protection of seabeds and marine habitats (EUR 400 million), which integrates with the marine strategy and all European and Italian scientific projects. But we have no more news, so help us to understand and answer my question, because neither I nor the other colleagues have yet been answered. This is a very important measure for the development of the integrated and sustainable circular economy, and at the same time serves to protect what you have said. We are in advance of what Europe says because we want to protect valuable habitats, both the coastal and deep seas, and restore degraded ecosystems. It took four years to bring home the so-called sea-saving law. Well, even there now we have several decrees related to the law saves the sea. The end of waste on marine waste: we must absolutely promote the circular and sustainable economy of the sea as well. In this regard there is also the decree, which has been expected since 2006 - certainly, it is not the fault of this Government - to make aquaculture compatible with the marine ecosystem. Yet Europe wants to focus on aquaculture in order to limit its fishing effort. Furthermore, how long will it take to close maritime spatial planning? If we want to develop the economy of the sea, we need planning; yet we are still in infringement proceedings and the VAS procedure. Instead, we gave space to the Sustainable Energy Transition Plan from the right areas (Pitesai) and, rather than developing all the economies of the sea in a sustainable way, we preferred to drill and thus extract gas and oil. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what I want to reiterate is that Italy, precisely in the face of the road that has been drawn at the environmental level both at European and international level, will have to strengthen with greater awareness and courage a proposal for a truly sustainable energy conversion, that is, based on our resources. I am referring to our natural environmental heritage linked to the sun, the sea and the wind: natural elements that are not valued, especially in the South, and that we have in common with the Mediterranean, towards which in my opinion we are proposing ourselves in a weak and unaware way of our role, which must not be predatory but prone to collaboration and mutuality; a balanced relationship and mutual growth. This is so that Italy can, on the one hand, build the long-awaited energy independence and, on the other hand, move along the line of cross-cutting and interest-free confrontation, especially in the face of the environmental challenges we are experiencing; especially we, who, because of this irrational international crisis between Ukraine and Russia, will find ourselves paying, as a nation, the price of dying under the water, because we are a raft in the middle of the Mediterranean and we could, if we do not run for shelter, remain alone in the midst of the sea, because of climate change: this we must tell us and we must tell everyone. What are we doing? We try to be aware that we have great resources, we are strategic and we are also human, we Italians: this we bring to Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u40	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u41	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the ongoing war, we are aware, as never before, of how much the energy issue has a vital geostrategic value at world level. For this reason it is useful that there should be a comparison on this issue right now, at the level of the great Western powers, within the G7. Russia's aggression with Ukraine has dramatically revealed how inappropriate an excessive energy dependence on a single supplier country is. In Italy, for example, before the war broke out, 40% of the gas imported into our country came from Russia, which meant that as soon as Putin exercised his political pressure, reducing gas production and exports, we, like other countries under similar conditions, suffered a sudden surge in energy prices. It is clear immediately how necessary a diversification of energy sources is, so as not to depend on the possible blackmail of a single monopoly supplier. We are faced with a further epochal challenge: the rise in energy prices and the need to find alternative sources must not throw at the nettles all the good intentions and commitments recently made by individual countries at international level. On the contrary, the crisis caused by the war must help us to accelerate the transition to renewable energies, in the awareness that our future depends on the health of the Planet and it is therefore necessary that we take care of it. We must reset carbon dioxide emissions as quickly as possible and we cannot continue, as if nothing had happened, without intervening with corrective measures, because otherwise the extreme cataclysms that unfortunately devastate, now more and more often, every corner of the earth will lead us to collapse. In our country today 30% of the energy used comes from renewable energy: an important percentage that places us among the most advanced countries, but that also shows us how much there is still to be done. We have the ambition to produce 70% of our energy from green sources over the next ten years. That is the objective we are pursuing, insofar as we invest about a quarter of the PNRR's resources in the ecological transition. We promise to contain the temperature increase to a maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius, but it is not necessarily possible. The most accredited estimates tell us that if there were no adjustments, it would reach an increase of 5 or 6 degrees of temperature at the end of the century, with a consequent overall rise in the sea level of about one meter from here to 2100, with consequences destined to be devastating: extreme events, floods, hurricanes, fires, strong drought, those natural disasters that we have already seen in the last fifty years being even fivefold in our country. Even at world level, it is estimated that already today, every year, about 24 million refugees are caused by the climate, forced to leave their land because of the progressive desertification or lack of water resources. Even our country is destined to pay a very high price because of the overheating climate: sea resorts risk to suffer considerable damage due to the rise of the sea level; Venice itself risks being submerged by the waters, with unimaginable consequences. It is therefore necessary to rush urgently to the reparations in Italy and globally and for this reason what has been decided in recent months in the various international fora must soon be realized. The commitments made must not be denied in the light of the new emergencies related to the war, indeed, they must be relaunched also and above all within the G7 countries. Firstly, there is a need to decarbonise by 2030 and reach a zero-climate-impact society by 2050. They are objective needs; all economic sectors are called upon to promote development, so that carbon dioxide emissions are zeroed within the next 30 years. Similarly, the commitment made at COP26 by all G7 countries to reduce methane emissions by 30% by 2030 and not to finance polluting projects abroad with public money should not be reversed. These are all commitments which must at the same time promote maximum social inclusion. The challenge is to make clean energy so convenient that everyone prefers it to fossil fuels. The ecological transition can only work to the extent that there is also social sustainability. The fight against climate change cannot be separated from the fight to overcome economic inequalities in our respective countries and in the world because if it were to generate unemployment, high costs or energy poverty, it would be doomed to fail. We need to be very clear about this. The rise in energy prices could lead to mistaken thinking that the ecological transition is too costly and that it should therefore be set aside. We cannot afford a failure of this kind; it is the future of our children and grandchildren. Instead, we must show that the opposite is true: in the medium and long term the development of renewable energy is much cheaper, makes us self-sufficient and can be strategic in combating energy poverty. It is precisely in this respect that I would like to stress some geostrategic considerations. The challenge of climate change cannot be overcome without China and India. There are still 8,500 coal-fired power stations in the world, half of which are located in these two countries. In order to achieve the objective of not exceeding 1.5 degrees of temperature, 40% of coal-fired power stations should be closed down by 2030, without any new ones being built, but China alone - ahinoi - is struggling with the construction of another 238 new coal-fired power stations, even though it is already expressing a third of global pollution alone today. A similar situation also exists in India, where over 70% of the energy consumed comes from coal-fired power stations and it is certainly not reassuring that Prime Minister Modi recently provided permits for the construction of 55 new power stations. All efforts to involve these two international actors should therefore be stepped up and nothing left to be done: both China and India must be involved in the battle against climate warming and in the efforts to decarbonise, trying to use the message that renewables agree more than fossil fuels. We also need special attention to the African continent. At present, Africa's energy consumption accounts for only 4% of the world's total energy consumption, while the population accounts for 17% of the global population. It follows that, when the continent's development begins, energy demand is bound to increase exponentially. That is why it would be useful to enter into a great deal of agreement with Africa right now in order to implement solar power plants which, in addition to creating the conditions to meet the imminent need for energy on the African continent, can also serve to export large quantities of clean energy to Europe. In short, Madam President, we must be able to put in place measures capable of incisively and quickly reversing the rise in global temperature in the short term, which is why we can only involve major international players such as China, India and Africa, aware that the fight against energy poverty is a key that can help us achieve the objective, but also, at the same time, to ensure a guarantee of global stability. We therefore need to invest considerably in research, and research must benefit everyone. As has been done in the course of the pandemic to invent vaccines that were effective against Covid, I believe that a major ad hoc effort is needed to achieve innovative techniques to combat climate warming, carbon dioxide storage, green hydrogen and also new generation nuclear energy, to check whether it is possible to produce energy without producing radioactive waste. In conclusion, Madam President, the achievement of climate neutrality and a clean environment can only be pursued by intertwining the strength of the different countries, the founding countries of the G7, but also China, India and Africa. Only in this way can we think of achieving the result. West and East must meet on a shared border, the protection of the environment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the introduction you said, in the end, aware of the climate in this House, that the agenda of this G7, so important and significant for the moment when it falls and for the city in which it takes place (Berlin), was a long agenda, perhaps too long, added boring - given the climate of the House - I could perhaps add terribly useless. So, a long agenda, too long, boring, perhaps useless, that does not take account of reality. We who are a patriotic force, of patriotic opposition, must necessarily take account of reality, and therefore the first thing we tell you about this agenda, considering also the debate that took place a moment ago in the House and here in the Senate, is that there seems to be Alice in the country of wonders. I believe that you, Minister, have shown in recent months that you are not Alice in the country of wonders; indeed, you have shown that you speak frankly in Parliament and to the country already before the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, when it was to be addressed - as must be dealt with anyway and regardless - the issue of energy security and its impact on the economy, in the light of the ecological transition. I would remind my fellow Senators that the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic, forty days before the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, has presented a report in Parliament - and not by chance - whose title is: "The report on energy security in the current phase of ecological transition" because already before the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, we of the Committee were aware - and I believe that Parliament should be the same - that the issue of energy security was already present or had to be present on our country's agenda, precisely in order to achieve the ecological transition objectives that we all share, in Italy and in our European Union. We hope that at the G7 summit you will make it clear that the fairy tale is over and that Germany and Europe must face reality, first and foremost in the field of energy and the environment. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means energy security and food security, which is not obvious. Just now there were those who pointed out how, as a result of climate change, there could be massive migratory movements of some ten million people from here to a few decades. I think that this threat is much more imminent and does not concern future generations, but our generation, indeed, the coming weeks and months. If food security is not guaranteed for countries that live beyond the Mediterranean, on the south bank, in black Africa, if Ukrainian ports are not liberated and those peoples are not allowed to supply grain and other food, we will have that migratory mass that will come to press as a demographic bomb launched by those who have conceived a permanent war that is enucleated in a hybrid war, of which energy is one of the elements of power and of which food is one of the other assets on which it can lever to press and subdue our Europe. Of all this we find nothing on this agenda, without realizing that, if the G7 takes place in Berlin, if it takes place a few months after the Russian invasion in Ukraine (war still fought today), it takes place with a stone feast, which is Russia. However, we returned to the G7 - I remind myself, certainly not to our colleagues - precisely because Russia had already invaded Ukraine in 2014. As a result of that invasion, with the annexation of Crimea and militias disguised as independentists in the Donbass in Lugansk and Donetsk, Russia was excluded from the G8. From 2014 to today too many years have passed without us noticing what the first war of invasion of Ukraine meant, having then suffered the second, more bloody than the first, because at the first we could not react. Above all, it has not been able to react to Germany, which today lists us, as if nothing had changed, the agenda of the next G7 energy and environment, without mea culpa on the fact that on energy Germany has supported Russia's power policy and has actually made us dependent to all intents and purposes. Certainly we Italians have done the same, as far as our responsibility is concerned. We must therefore - and I hope the Government will do so - bring the situation back to reality, even at that summit, where we find ourselves. It is no coincidence, Minister, that the President of the Draghi Council prefers to arrive at the extraordinary European Council without passing through the parliamentary classrooms, as we, the opposition force, demand for clarity and transparency towards the country, even though we support - you must acknowledge this - the unitary policy, which we hope to be unanimous, of our country in order to face the serious threat to Ukraine, its freedom and independence and, at the same time, to some extent, our freedom and independence. It is no coincidence that he wants to go to the European Council without going to this House, also because - let us be clear - it is precisely on energy that Europe is losing its unity. Weeks ago we were told that the sixth package of sanctions against Russia was ready; weeks have passed and this package of sanctions does not see the light, precisely because it concerns energy (in this case oil and then gas). We were also told that the legal office would make payment in rubles impossible and then the opposite happened, because the energy issue is the central theme of European submission to the policy of power of other nations and other countries and it is not only resolved in the field of good intentions or just keeping commitments. We believe that commitments must be maintained, in order to reach the end that energy transition and therefore ecological useful for the environment; but recent events have shown that the other countries (I speak of China, India and not only) have no interest in doing all this, indeed they have taken advantage of the crisis to have other fossil energy at a better cost. We know that we will not solve the problems of the Planet if we do not involve these countries, but we must also know that alone we cannot take responsibility for the problems of the world, without being aware of our priorities. That is why I believe it is important, Minister, and I say this also in this House, that the country clearly addresses the issue of energy security and food security, not only for us but for others. As far as energy security is concerned, I believe that it is essential, otherwise the commitments made also in the field of the environment will be essentially of façade and impossible to achieve. We need a national energy security plan, which will make the country understand the tools, technologies and times to reach that national, European and Western energy independence and independence, without which we will not be able to defend our independence and therefore our sovereignty. Starting with the conclusion, this is also linked to the problem of technology, because we run the risk of moving from a technology that makes us succubis of Russia, that of coal, to another technology on renewables that makes us succubis of China. We would fall from the pan to the fire, so it is more necessary than ever to achieve a strategic energy and production autonomy Italian and European. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u44	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for illustrating what his role will be as an Italian representative in the meeting of the Ministers for Energy and the Environment of the seven most industrialised countries in the world on 25-27 May. My speech will be distinguished in three short steps, if you will allow me and if I manage the time available to me: a phase of support and encouragement to what you represented us with reference to the position of Italy on the items that will be on the agenda; a criticism collateral to the subject precisely in question and, if I may, also a suggestion that we hope can be taken into consideration by the Ministry. The first phase is the sweetest, the one of encouragement, of support, in the sense that I understand that Italy too has a good eye on the German Presidency's intention to extend within the framework of the G20 the creation of a climate club, so as to give greater consistency to a global action aimed at combating climate upheavals, although in the times - if I understand correctly - that cannot be immediate, given the complication of the diplomatic effort to involve the twenty main world actors. I appreciated the passage in which he recalled that from the conceptual point of view no subsidy to fossil sources is efficient, although we know well that they are necessary. We hope, in fact, that the energy transition will develop in a temporal context that can be as short as possible in order not to bring down the Italian and global economic and productive system, but we know well - we are aware of this and we think we share this thought with you - that the time for the fastest possible abandonment of support for fossil subsidies must be an objective to always keep in mind. We also appreciated the reference to what action pact will be as well as the G7 Hydrogen action pact. Some members of this House have been dealing with hydrogen since before the pandemic and geopolitical crisis, so we are happy and we encourage support for every initiative aimed at developing in the global context the use and enhancement of the energy vector produced from renewable sources. Here too, we have appreciated your mention in this House - I think you have done it more effectively in the House of Members - that only green hydrogen, i.e. from renewable sources, is provided for in our PNRR. This is a position that must be maintained for everything we have already said and that fortunately also seems to meet his intentions, his positions and - in this case - those of our country. Decarbonisation of buildings in 2050: this too is good, and we need to push. When it is hoped that the rate of building renovation and retrofitting will increase, I personally cannot fail to think of our Italian superbonus, which has been so distracted and often hit by accidents, not by Parliament, but by some governmental environment. On this point we hope that a voice will be raised for him to simplify the mechanism which he certainly did not deserve and does not deserve the criticisms that are sometimes still raised, even by the President-in-Office of the Council; but let us close this parenthesis immediately. It is all right, therefore, and we are sure that you will represent us more than worthily in the context of the meeting with the other seven Ministers. The criticism that I go to carry out very briefly concerns not what he talked about, but a provision that was published in the Official Journal five days ago, namely Decree-Law No. 50 relating to energy. By now I have lost the nominal classification of the various decree-laws: energy, aid, support and so on. Let's call it Decree-Law No. 50 so we don't run the risk of getting confused. As the LEU-Ecosolidali Group, we obviously do not have a preconceived position and among the reasonable measures, which we consider necessary in order to increase the diversification of the supply of gas raw material, there is also the entry into play of regasifiers, those floating, those of which he has spoken to us and those that find in Article 5 of the measure in question a support, support that does not surprise us, but that, on the contrary, leaves a little puzzled when we see that the temporal scope of financial support of 30 million per year for twenty years - therefore, until 2043 - goes, precisely, until 2043. If, then, we want to reach that time horizon that you have told us about, namely the second half of 2024, by which we will be able to free ourselves from the dependence of Russian gas, we must bear in mind - you with us, and I am sure you will - that our real ultimate goal is to free ourselves not from Russian gas, but from gas as soon as possible; which does not mean tomorrow, and we all have perfect awareness of it. However, the idea of funding that meets the legitimate expectations of business plans, of those who will invest in regasification plants in such an extensive time frame, clearly exposes the risk that then these interventions will become in some way structural and can slow down the energy transition on which we are all aiming. We will talk more about this in the appropriate place of conversion - if we are given the possibility - to understand if it is possible at least to limit the temporal scope of support to the regasifiers; otherwise, if we get rid of a handcuff, we risk finding ourselves handcuffed somewhere else as a country, and this is not good. I conclude with a small suggestion that will be developed in a more thorough and analytical way, beyond my intervention that is announcing it: the issue of the gas and electricity markets. All the government interventions, which we have also supported (support for bills, excise duty cuts, VAT reductions, now the extraordinary allowance of EUR 200 to households and businesses) are certainly good, but we know - and you will know this better than we do - that they are buffer interventions that try to curb a bleeding. It is then time to start thinking - you are probably already doing so - about structural measures, which are not only the diversification of gas, which necessarily develops within a time frame that will go through the decade; I do not know, but we hope in the shortest possible time. There is a need for action on the gas markets and perhaps an intelligent, practical and feasible system exists. It suggests this - it is not flour of my bag - a recent article published on the website of the Hume Foundation, signed by a financial consultant and a physicist, which provides the possibility to intervene at a regulatory level, disconnecting the price for the protected gas market from the so-called TTF, which we have all learned to know, that is the spot price of the Dutch gas market that until April-May 2021 followed the diagram of the customs price, i.e. the one with which Italy calculates the excise duties that are charged on the bills. For a year this parallel trend has been reversed, until the very rapid increase in the spot price of financial gas compared to physical gas. 6:32 p.m. (Follow BUCCARELLA). Having no time to fully explain the subject, I reserve the right, with my group colleagues and others who wish to participate in the preparation of this proposal, to better represent this possibility. I would remind you of the public statement by the Director of the Customs Agency and the monopolies with which he declares feasible the possibility of anchoring the price of gas to the physical one and not to the financial one, bearing in mind that the quantitative ratio is a cubic meter of physical gas and 10 cubic meters of so-called financial gas, that is that bought on the bags that - let us remember - are not regulated, but over the counter (OTC), with a system that would not need to disrupt even the commercial secrecy of those who import the gas (especially ENI, but also other importers). It would remain the secret on the price of gas, but, as a country and regulatory authorities, we would be able to link it to a price closer to reality, thus moving away from the harmful consequences of the liberalisation and privatisation of gas and electricity. But this is another speech. Finally, there is the question of the marginal price of the electricity market. Mr. Minister, you know this better than I do, but obviously the multiplication... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, I invite you to conclude. BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). I should like to conclude by referring to a future development, which I hope will be as precise as possible, so that these proposals can be taken into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u46	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that over the last forty-eight months we have experienced two global tragedies: the pandemic, with the dramatic implications that we are still experiencing, and then the war in Ukraine. As always, dramatic events have, in themselves, also the possibility of being sources and resources of innovations to find better solutions that allow a better world than the previous one. This certainly happened for the pandemic, which forced countries to join and develop a policy of European integration; it made us reflect on the fundamental part of our country's public health and made us understand how only a public health is able to respond to the needs of citizens, because the most efficient and able to give answers and protect the health of citizens. Similarly, the great challenge of the Ukrainian crisis - let us say Russia's aggression against the independent free state of Ukraine - brings us all to a new consideration of energy autonomy. And it is showing very plastically that it is absolutely no longer possible to postpone an autonomous energy policy at national and continental level. President Draghi, no later than ten days ago, told the House - and I quote - that this government was born as an ecological government that made the climate, green transition and digital the backbone. Why did Prime Minister Draghi make such a statement? First of all because it is true: the mandate we have given him moves exactly within these fundamental lines of growth and development. And it is because the European Union and the great European pact that our country is building are moving in this direction. The Repower EU mentioned by the Minister in the information that we have just heard says - I quote again from the introductory part of Repower EU - that there are three objectives: to reduce emissions, but also to strengthen economic security and competitiveness. The ecological transition therefore serves not only to reduce emissions - a matter of course fundamental in itself - but also to strengthen energy and geopolitical security and to increase the competitiveness of our economic systems. Those who think differently move by looking backwards, go forward by looking at the rear-view mirror. Mr President, for us the ecological transition is to create development, future, work, investment, well-being and sustainability, and that is exactly the great challenge we face. Minister, tomorrow and the day after, you will have the important role of Government to represent our country at the G7 in Berlin, which will take place in the presence of seven countries, of which three are Europeans: in fact, in addition to Italy there will be France and Germany. Now it does not escape anyone that Repower EU is born within this pact that has been signed and, in many ways, follows the policies that the Government, also through its contribution, has defined in recent months. Certainly the great task you will have in these two days will be to ensure that Europe, the leader in the field of transition, security, competitiveness and durability - as is said in the economy - of economic growth, also becomes convincing at international level. And you have to be convincing in the G7, but then you have to be convinced in the G20 and this - as we have seen with Glasgow, Minister - is not exactly a walk or a very simple thing: just think of the resistances of China, India, Brazil, Australia and so on. However, we are certain that this is the only way forward and it is in particular for our country and for our continent. Our continent, in order to develop a policy of autonomy and energy independence, has exactly this great line. Now, of course, the first operation is to make us independent of Russia and, therefore, the policy of gasifiers is fine, because we must also be consistent with ourselves: if we do not want to remain cold next year or in the next two or three years, if we want to replace Russian gas, it is of all evidence that we must find a solution to the serious situation in which we are finding ourselves. Of course, however, this is true in the short term and it is a first step, it is not the structural solution. We say this and repeat it: that's what Draghi and the Government say and that's what the European Union says with Repower EU. Minister, you know a lot better than I do that we have been in the situation of being dependent on Russia, from the point of view of gas. And we have been in a position, in the last twenty years, to have a 10% reduction in gas consumption in the European Union and, despite this, we have increased Russia's import, because we have decreased gas production in Europe. Gas extraction, in the last 20 years, has in fact decreased from 290 billion cubic metres to 200 billion cubic metres, because resources are decreasing. The resources of the North Sea are also falling drastically and I am referring, for example, to the great historical deposit of Groningen. Thus the transition operation of Repower EU is necessary, as well as ethically sustainable and intelligent. It is necessary, in the sense that we have no alternative in the medium and long term. From here, we have increased imports from Russia to 175 billion cubic metres a year at European level, of which 29 are Italians, because we felt that the countries of North Africa - for example - were less stable from a geopolitical point of view. You are right, Minister, to go around the world looking for a replacement, in Qatar, Algeria, Egypt. But it does not escape anyone that the political situation in those countries is not exactly an idyllic one from the point of view of democratic and institutional stability. Within a few years, therefore, as quickly as possible, we must build autonomy and independence based on our resources. To do this, the Repower EU is fine, with the 210 billion to be invested by 2027; the 300 billion by 2030 is fine and energy saving is very good with the 5% decrease in consumption, because even reducing energy consumption is possible, indeed it is also ethically convenient. And then there is energy efficiency: we have to bring to the table of the G7 what decided in the Repower EU, that change from 9 to 13 percent - for example - of energy efficiency. With regard to renewable quotas, the Repower EU also increases what the Fit for 55, establishing that by 2030 renewables must cover not more than 40, but 45% of production at European level. Then there is the theme of the renewable shares of photovoltaics: excellent choice to impose on industrial plants, in particular commercial ones for now and public ones, photovoltaic panels on roofs, because before consuming soil, we can consume those surfaces that are huge and have great possibilities. And so it's good to go in that direction. [[Applause]] It is also very positive to speed up the permitting process, because on this issue too we must agree with ourselves, Mr President: since energy is needed, we must decide how to produce it. Therefore, if we decide for transition, transition is and, therefore, the European decision on the environmental impact is good not on individual projects but on the level of areas. We are also talking about renewable hydrogen, biomethane, heat pumps. Moreover, the contribution of solidarity, which the Democratic Party first placed here and which the Government has made in two decrees, is fundamental, because we take part of the extra profits (40 billion in Italian companies) and distribute them to 28 million Italians and to thousands of companies. Finally, there is the subject of hard to abbot, which will be addressed in these days. At European level, we must speed up with great determination because 15% of hard to abbots involve total use of coal and 10% of G7 hard to abbots in the use of coal. We need to speed up in that direction. There is no doubt that the ecological transition in that area will also be the big challenge. And so good work, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u48	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u49	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your detailed and thorough report, which is yet another opportunity for us to reiterate some fundamental concepts. You have touched on all the most important issues that will be dealt with at this extraordinary time in the course of the next G7, we hope in an equally extraordinary way. As we have repeated on several occasions during other speeches on energy and the environment, the world has changed and for this reason there is a need for imposing, fast, correct counter-measures deriving from a necessary strategic vision. Once again Forza Italia, as the majority force of a Government of unity, addresses her who can determine the choices on the most important issues at the moment: energy; technological innovation; environmental, economic and social sustainability; concessions; authorizations; checks; controls; protection systems; safety and work. The country needs the right conditions to be created in order to be able - as it knows and can do well - to face every difficulty; indeed, to transform the difficulties into opportunities. We have repeated this to the point of exhaustion: only technology and innovation will be able to cope with the climate and environmental crisis. The mass extinction, evoked by my colleague Pavanelli, will happen especially if we do not stop saying no to everything. As my colleague Mr Ferrazzi recalled, ecological transition means development, work, well-being, income realizations. But, in order to do so, companies should not be helped with adequate funds or with systems that are bad like superbonus 110%; they should be helped to do what they can do, giving them certainties and simplification, planning possibilities, incentives yes, but structural, labour flexibility, simplified and fair taxation and so on. Minister, let us simplify even more procedures and authorization procedures, encourage investment, reward and facilitate business conversions and innovations, make work flexible and focus on energy communities and self-consumption. We believe that these communities should be extended as far as possible to large companies. We increase internal productions, as Forza Italia has managed to do - for example - in the area of biogas. Urban regeneration must be extended to every building immediately, as you have shown: all G7 countries are invited to introduce national policies aimed exclusively at predicting the development of new zero-emission buildings by 2030 or before. But if we don't make existing buildings zero-emission efficient, how do we solve the problem? We also calm down the superintendents and try to dismiss the urban regeneration bill as soon as possible. Minister, the statement that the Government has been working on for some time - as you remind us - recognizes the urgent need to address the major global challenges of climate change, energy transition and so on. But we begin to achieve the energy transition to a zero-emission future, starting to plant it once and for all with the No Committees. You also told us that, on the Italian side, there was a strong support for the acceleration of the development of renewables and asked for a greater focus in the final statement on research and development in this area. And how do we realize it, given the contradictions that see us chanting to renewables but having to fight the committees that, in turn, fight shovels and panels? Not to mention the gasifiers, which we need like air, but are stuck everywhere. How do we combat pollution without infrastructure? How will we use hydrogen of any color without infrastructure? Energy: Waste is today a primary asset to produce it. Let us return to the theme of circular economy, which is not the poor sister of energy. If today we are realizing the need to have energy and to have it at affordable prices, then as a geopolitical problem, we also realize how indispensable it is to find the raw materials and have them available to produce and manufacture, from that great transforming country that we are. I return to the theme of the world that has changed to reaffirm that enhancing the capacity to produce second-hand raw materials of end-of-life products and post-consumer products, which we vulgarly call waste, in place of fighting the construction of plants, will be the only way to have an incredible second raw material availability. As far as energy production is concerned, the same applies: from waste and plants such as the heat-to-energy plant we could solve the problems of proper disposal and help to get out of energy poverty (Rome Docet). Minister, bring to the G7 the message of an Italy of doing, of an Italy that possesses the infinite raw material that is our intelligence. Take seriousness and commitment to the G7 and then come back and we start working seriously, we start doing well and without fear, because the only thing to really be afraid of is ignorance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u50	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Minister Cingolani for his comprehensive report in anticipation of the forthcoming meeting of the Energy and Environment Ministers of the G7 countries, convened to establish a global alliance on ecological transition and sustainability. We understand that the German Presidency intends to promote further emission reduction commitments compared to those already adopted at Cop26 in Glasgow. Well, if the anticipations are these, there is a little to worry about, especially if we are the only EU countries that are responsible for only 9% of CO2 emissions, while China and India continue to be the major polluters. [[Applause]] I say this because we are well aware of the failure of years of the Italian European energy policy, based on hyper-challenging objectives and on the no to almost everything: no to nuclear, no to regasifiers, no to drills, no to TAP, no to the thermo-energy plant in Rome. In Europe and Italy, in recent years - for example - we have disinvested in oil and gas, thinking of protecting the environment; instead we have made a disaster. Gas consumption has remained similar; prices have skyrocketed, due to the surge in global gas demand, and we pollute more because, by importing gas, more emissions are created. [[Applause]] Thus, natural gas has overpowered its strategic role as a source of energy and as an accompaniment to the ecological transition and is sold dearly. Compared to the pre-Covid period we are at crazy levels of gas prices and, consequently, electricity: they have increased five times. The high level of energy, which increasingly has structural characteristics, is a European phenomenon in particular. But Italy suffers much more because it pays for the questionable choices I said above: it pays for inefficiencies never resolved and for an energy mix too reduced. High energy is also slowing down the ecological transition: more coal is burning in Europe, especially in Germany, which would like to morale about emissions and not about nuclear power. [[Applause]] Against expensive energy, we acknowledge that the Government has intervened in recent months with seven measures, allocating a total of about 24 billion to contain bills of light and gas and expensive fuels. Measures after the Russian-Ukrainian crisis for gas emergency and measures to increase short-term security and to reduce and eliminate the dependence of imports from Russia are also positive. It won't be easy anyway. I come to Europe and to the very recent Repower EU plan. After the successful incorporation of gas and nuclear into taxonomy at the end of last year, pragmatism in Brussels has made some progress. In fact, the role of gas in the transition has begun to be recognised. Now we are no longer talking about freeing Europe from gas, considered for too long the dark evil, because it is a fossil, but about freeing it from Russian gas. [[Applause]] After the Russian-Ukrainian war, in order to cope with expensive energy and to free itself from coal, oil and Russian gas, Brussels updated the toolbox, after the half-empty one in October, and so the Commission, last week, presented the Repower EU plan. The new objectives, which have been raised compared to those already challenging and which are not acceptable to us in the Fit for 55 package, leave us very perplexed. We take note of the need to prolong the lives of coal and nuclear power stations and environmentalists will take it into account. [[Applause]] Illusory is instead the doubling of the objective of green hydrogen, from 5 to 10 million tons per year. There's nothing yet. There is no hydrogen market and above all there is little renewable electricity to produce it. Too much emphasis then on the new 2030 energy efficiency target, raised from 9 to 13 percent. Question: who pays the investment on existing buildings? If we were to do it only with the superbonus, the state would go bankrupt. There is still too much emphasis on renewable energy with a target raised from 40% to 45% on final energy consumption. We reiterate that the development of photovoltaics and wind - they are not programmable and represent a strong limit to the security of the energy system - will not be without the adaptation of the Terna transmission network and the development of the storage capacity - which is still not available at an industrial level, for which research is needed to develop technologies that do not make use of lithium, in order to avoid tying us even more, hands and feet, to China. [[Applause]] With this in mind, it is difficult to combine three energy policy objectives such as reducing emissions, ensuring security of gas supply from other suppliers and containing energy prices. There is a need for substantial investment. A total economic support of 220 billion by 2027 is being envisaged in Europe, with a loan mechanism such as the one created in response to Covid, but how much would it be worth to Italy? We know that Italy, like Romania and Greece, is among the countries that have already drawn on all the funds available for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, so we risk remaining dry. Minister, as a League, always attentive to energy issues, we make proposals that we ask you and the Government to take into account. First of all, it should be remembered that all the measures taken so far to contain expensive energy and expensive fuels are covered until 30 June - on 8 July the excise duty on fuels - and this is a big problem, because the dear energy, aggravated by the war, has structural characteristics, the Government will have to take another full measure within a month that will extend to the third quarter the measures to protect citizens, businesses and economic recovery, in the penalty of the crisis. It will take several billions and it is likely that we will need a new intervention in debt, a budgetary deviation, that is, a Community intervention in which Europe is called to play its part. As far as gas is concerned, all supply diversification measures are good for freeing themselves from Russia. But above all we must reduce our high energy dependence, also because Algeria, Mozambique, Angola, Congo and Qatar themselves are not champions of democracy. It is therefore okay to produce more biomethane, but above all it is necessary to increase national gas production. [[Applause]] , exploiting our deposits; which, Minister, means more investment, more employment, more royalty for the territories and more environmental protection. On sustainable mobility and decarbonisation of transport, to combat climate change, the enemy is CO2, not internal combustion cars. The G7's objective of having all the new electric vehicles, cars and zero emissions vans within the next decade is profoundly wrong. Minister, enforce the principle of technological neutrality. [[Applause]] All technologies contributing to decarbonisation, including Euro 6 and Euro 7, must be supported. We continue to develop biofuels, synthetic fuels and LNG (liquefied natural gas) supply chains for heavy transport in addition to biomethane and hydrogen. It is not only a question of protecting our automotive industry, but also of protecting the environment, as there is not all green energy. Where is the charging infrastructure? The electricity grid, however, cannot be easily adapted and then there will be no batteries, or there will be another dependence on Asia, with enormous geopolitical risks. The circular economy must be closed in accordance with the principle of self-sufficiency and territorial proximity. Next, then, with the thermo-energy plant in Rome and with similar plants that are necessary. [[Applause]] The previous ones are measures for the short and medium term, while we must have a view on the medium to long term. So, if we have to decarbonise in 2050, respond to the growing demand for electricity; if we have to deliver energy continuously; if we have to produce very low-emission hydrogen - considered a central element to overcome gas - and if we have to reduce energy dependence, we cannot avoid the development of the latest generation of clean and safe nuclear power. Minister Cingolani - and I have concluded - we believe that these proposals of ours are important for the maintenance of the economic system of our country in a period of deep crisis and international instability. Evaluate and accept the full availability of our collaboration. Good job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u52	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u53	Dear Minister, the global economy is overwhelmed and the G7 must discuss it. Wars reveal the fragility of a system that can become sustainable only by taking actions that ensure a balance between the satisfaction of needs and respect for the environment. The route is unique: technological innovation, strong reduction of waste, efficiency of energy utilities, strong increase of renewable energy production with related storage and smart grid technologies. Will this ensure cost-effective and - I repeat - sustainable energy? If it's not sustainable, it's not even convenient. This scenario is drawn from the international commitments on climate and energy that Europe supports with several actions and that outline a 2050 road map of full decarbonisation; objectives already defined by the PNIEC and the Plan for the ecological transition, but which will have to be made even more ambitious as indicated by the Repower EU; objectives which are also a commitment to the President-in-Office of the Council, which Italy intends to maintain, also supported by Germany's proposal that we must support and relaunch in order to ensure energy security as soon as possible, in particular by Russian gas. Minister, the government claims to have moved rapidly to reduce the share of natural gas that we import from Russia. Too bad, though, that we are not having the same speed, decision and effectiveness in accelerating structural decarbonisation interventions. I would point out that we exclude nuclear power for reasons which have been mentioned in this House several times, and recently Germany has also expressed its opposition to the inclusion of nuclear power in taxonomy. We are aware that, in the ecological transition, the gas carrier plays an important role. But we are equally aware that the impacts it has on the climate are not negligible, indeed, and it is a quantitatively limited resource in Italy to think that it can be a structural alternative, at least for Italy. That is why we should be planning its constant reduction as quickly as possible through an exit strategy, as we have done for coal. The decree on urgent measures in the field of national energy policies, however, Minister, gives us a strong warning reaction, because it provides for an extended and indefinite liberalization - I would say urbi et orbi - to the proliferation of regasifiers. You, Minister, have always spoken in the parliamentary debate about the need for two regasifiers - two in number - and about 12-15 billion cubic metres. Therefore, one account is to legislate in accordance with these figures, a justified solution to the current crisis. An account is to find a decree that derogates from numerous rules and opens the door to a potential unconditional regasification urbi et orbi that would be at a high price for the pockets of consumers on which the costs will be discharged. So in the decree, Minister, it simply doesn't say "two": it says we liberalise. Let us not forget that the price of LNG is also currently very high: it costs 30 to 40% more than its gaseous cousin's supplies and will therefore have significant economic and social impacts for production activities. Again on a structural level, I recall that Germany will ask the G7 to reduce subsidies to fossils and to support the retrofitting of buildings, as strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars with the superbonus 110. That's how it's done. Finally, the other major measure on which we ask you to work seriously at the G7 is the acceleration of renewables, destroying the barriers that prevent investment. We do not loosen the gas harness, except for the two regasifiers, but for a fixed time. Let's loosen them on renewables and energy efficiency, now, immediately, without lingering again. We identify a framework of special rules for energy innovation, we also simplify and speed up efficiency and accelerate the implementation of regulation, which is essential. It is therefore necessary to support and encourage the entire industrial and technological production chain and to define an industrial recovery plan for the production of goods and services necessary for the ecological transition. That is the industrial policy that we need, that is the creation of tens and tens of thousands of jobs, being these labour-intensive solutions, which replace capital-intensive ones. Minister, we're not wrong yet. We will thus make our contribution to building the necessary change for a dignified future for all and peaceful, because less gas and less oil is equal to less wars. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u54	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the ecological transition, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u57	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, last May 20 the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella was the protagonist of the celebrations of Medolla, the symbol of Emilia-Romagna, wounded ten years ago by the two very strong earthquakes that have bent our region (the first in the night between Saturday and Sunday 20 May and the second in the morning of Tuesday 29 May). There have been twenty-nine deaths, three hundred wounded, hundreds of destroyed companies, thousands of inaccessible houses and thousands of our fellow citizens welcomed in tent cities mounted and managed by the Civil Protection, in which for months old, adults and children have slept in bunks, eaten under tents and lived together, in a time that seemed to have stopped. Of those days many are the symbols, before and after the tremble of the earth: broken bell towers, destroyed sheds, damaged schools, inaccessible and suddenly silent squares. So, yes, it was said, it looked like a war territory. Today, after two years of pandemic and with the ongoing war in Ukraine, it is good not to use metaphors and instead to use words that correctly express what the earthquake has represented, without evoke other tragedies: there have been destruction, dismay, fear and mourning; but also commitment, determination, solidarity and reconstruction. The reconstruction, now completed, has been referred to in the many celebrations still in progress, which took place on the days of the tenth anniversary. For that reconstruction is called in question the Emilia-Romagna model, led by Senator Vasco Errani, then President of the Emilia-Romagna Region and extraordinary commissioner for reconstruction, which today I want to thank for various reasons: for the dedication made of pragmatism and knowledge of the bureaucratic machine; for the ability to put in place and coordinate men and resources, beginning with Civil Protection; for the ability to listen to the business and industrial world, which has been able to motivate with certain answers, tracing a furrow then continued by the current governor Stefano Bonaccini. Reconstruction is synonymous with trust. We must ensure that the warning of 2012, not to forget, remains topical, because we cannot forget that reconstruction has been a sharing of values in which the sentiments of brotherhood, solidarity and mutual help have reappeared. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u60	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, it is important this evening to highlight an unpleasant situation in Umbria on Sunday. Nothing serious, nothing dramatic; but Minister Hope came to Umbria and, rather than coming to announce the acceptance of important projects presented by the Region in the framework of the measures envisaged by the PNRR, right in the city of Assisi, where the Minister thought to entertain for a private occasion, went then to the Municipality and, together with the mayor of that city (obviously more related to its political part), he entertained on the need to keep alive the hospital of Assisi, which evidently is already at the attention of the Region. However, the Minister decides: either the measures are taken according to the schemes and grids drawn up by the Ministry, the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), the technicians and the PNRR scheme for the permanence of the territorial hospital structures, or the Minister takes autonomous measures (it is not well known which ones) to ensure the existence or not of a hospital. Evidently, this is a matter of exclusive competence of the Region (it is a competing matter, but in this case it is exclusively of the Region); moreover, in Umbria the regional health plan is being drawn up, therefore the interference of the Minister is used - indeed, exploited - by the mayor of the city of Assisi (obviously of the PD), who illustrates the problems concerning the hospital and the Minister gives guarantee about their resolution. In that same city, there is a project presented by the Umbria Region that concerns the disabled of the Seraphic Institute of Assisi, which needs the realization of a health structure provided for by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; the Minister should therefore come and tell us what will be of that project, rather than ingesting in a path of formation of the regional health plan, in which however the hospital of Assisi will have its importance and its relevance, consistent with the grids, parameters and rules established at national level by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u63	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, just sixteen-year-old boy has been apostrophated by his uncle with the following words: we don't want rich people in the family, now you die. Moreover, he attacked and beat him in the company of other men and, according to the newspapers, in complicity with the boy's father, who could not bear the idea of having a gay son. The boy reported the fracture of four ribs, the deviation of the nasal septum and numerous haematomas. The greatest damage, however, is certainly what brought back his psyche: the pain of being hated and rejected by his own family; who can ever soothe him? This happened in the province of Cosenza on 17 May, just on that day that we wanted to be officially recognized as the day against homolesbobitransphobia, a hateful phenomenon that continues to reap victims and poison our society and our families, while many, too many in this House deny even its existence, to the point that they sabotaged, with their faces covered, the law that would allow those savages who brutally beat a child to be recognized as the aggravating agents of hatred because of his sexual orientation. No, you don't. What does it matter if our young people and our young people continue to pay the highest price? It is better to defend ignorance and bring down a law of protection with a face covered, rather than to recognize that in our country there is a problem of discrimination against the LGBT community (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender). [[Applause]] Luckily, before that law went down, at least the structural fund for the creation of shelter centers and support desks for victims of homophobic hatred managed to approve it and now Cosenza's boyfriend will have a place to go to try to cure those inner wounds. However, the problem of discrimination remains and may even be aggravated, following the sudden statements of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, which in recent days has issued a note stating that the so-called smallpox of monkeys would be particularly widespread within the community of individuals who identify themselves as MSM (men who have sex with men, i.e. men who have sexual relations with other men). This statement was also taken up in Italy by mainstream virologi, causing the confusion of the LGBT community. These are very serious words, which risk putting back the clock hands of the time to when, rather than seriously tackling HIV and AIDS infection, which was scourged by Europe and the United States, a scapegoat was found precisely in the gay, lesbian and trans-European people, who paid a very high price in terms of stigma and social exclusion, and this caused a terrible delay also in putting in place effective measures of contrast and prevention for the entire population. This irresponsible behaviour cannot be repeated and I will therefore present a question to the Minister of Health Hope to shed light on such sudden statements by bodies that must protect everyone and certainly not feed prejudice and homotransphobic hatred, the same hatred of which the sixteen-year-old of Cosenza has been victimized. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u66	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, this morning, under the mandate of Caltanissetta's attorney, the house of journalist Paolo Mondani and the editorial staff of "Report" were searched, with reference to the broadcast aired yesterday evening, which contained important revelations about the massacre of Capaci, in particular about the presence of the leader of Avanguardia Nazionale Stefano delle Chiaie, plus other stories still to be screened and which deserve an in-depth investigation by the judiciary, and not only. Why, Mr President, do I make this speech? Because, according to the leaked news, the judiciary tries to acquire acts, as they were told by the journalist in the investigation; at the same time, it has seized mobile phones and has acquired or wants to acquire other computer materials. Legal activity on the part of the judiciary, but deeply dangerous for journalistic activity, because it affects freedom of investigation and, above all, endangers the secrecy of sources. I am making this speech, Mr President, because this work of the judiciary is possible, although so invasive, because this Parliament too has not had the political will to put in place a profound reform of the professional secrecy of journalists; a reform - I repeat - absolutely necessary to protect their activities and, precisely, the secrecy of sources. I would like to remind you that secrecy is not only the journalist's interest, but it is a matter that also deeply affects citizens, because it is only through confidential sources that can give information that citizens can inform themselves. I hope, Mr President, that this Senate - if not the whole Parliament - will get to grips with the problem, examining all the legislative proposals, including my own, on the reform of professional secrecy, which is the only serious measure that must be taken to protect freedom of the press, beyond the occasional and little-felt solidarity that is manifested in these cases.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u69	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). Mr President, over the years there have been too many men of the State, journalists and policemen who came out of the mafia and did not defend themselves from the State itself when, by various means, they stood on the side of public opinion and truth to discover the intrinsic secrets of a criminal system and its contacts with deviant pieces of the State and the Secret Service. Today I am not interested in knowing who was on the scene of the crime thirty years later: by now we have understood that no one wants the truth anymore; we only hypocritically go to the place of that disaster every year and remember the death of two great people, Falcone in Capaci and Borsellino under the mother's house, to understand how far we are still from the respect of the lives of our most important men from the point of view of the search for truth and the judiciary. What is serious in this action, Mr President, is not only the speed with which two journalists have searched each other, rather than securing them and doing with other systems the investigations that could have been done (I do not think that the people involved would have had reason to deny cooperation with the judiciary); it is that with the same speed - and I do not explain why - they were not searched the dens of Riina, Provenzano and Brusca, despite the fact that there were then, by the repentant, precise indications. I still wonder today, Mr President, why not, despite the fact that we are presenting yet another question and despite the fact that dozens have been tabled during this, like previous legislation, we cannot have the answers from the Government and the Ministers consulted in the right time. It is just a few days ago the letter from the President of the Council Draghi to President Casellati, then to the Leaders, in which he called for speed and work, for the need to have the measures he himself wishes to approve and as quickly as possible. I would ask President Draghi to speak with his ministers and his offices and, as quickly as possible, to respond to us, because we want to know why these journalists have been searched and to know many other things about which, over the years, we have tabled the necessary parliamentary questions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-436.ana.u71	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 25 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.22 p.m.
