ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 9 (Report of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021) and 10 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2022). The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u5	Mr President, as every year, the Senate Assembly is examining acts relating to the internal or institutional budget. This time it is the account of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021 and the draft budget for the year 2022, which the Presidency decided at its meeting on 2 August. By limiting myself to an essential examination of these two accounting documents and starting from the accounts for the last financial year, I observe first of all that the total effective expenditure - net of the savings to be paid to the State and the provisions - has turned out in 2021 pairs to euro 445,729,870,94, in decrease of approximately 3,215 million regarding the final figure of the financial year 2020. It should also be borne in mind that this reduction in expenditure, being expressed in nominal terms, does not take account of inflation and would therefore be even more marked if it were expressed in real terms. Moreover, Senate revenue shows that the financial envelope has remained unchanged since 2012 to the extent of around 505 million euros. As a result, compared to the budget requested in 2011, of around 526 million (almost 527), there is an annual reduction of 21.6 million euros. The constant reduction in expenditure in recent years has therefore been accompanied by a substantial stability of the main entry of the State, with the latter settling, however, at a significantly lower level than in the years before the crisis of 2011. As regards the composition of the expenditure, the operating expenditure was equal in 2021 to 55.23 per cent of total expenditure, compared with 44.77 of the social security expenditure, keeping these two elements substantially constant over the years. As far as the 2022 budget is concerned, as already shown by the lower budget required for the current year, there is a significant reduction - with regard to social security expenditure - for the current year compared to the previous year, down by 3.7%. However, it should be noted that this amount also includes the amounts set aside as a result of the reductions introduced both for senators' vitality and for employee pension treatment. In particular, it is noted that the savings due to the application of the reform of the calculation of the vitalities, approved during 2018, were left in a special fund established Prudently until the end of the process in progress in the internal justice bodies. Also with regard to the application of paragraph 261 of Law No 145 of 2018, which provides for the reduction of pension treatment in excess of certain gross annual amounts, a fund was established (Saving Fund on Pension Treatments of a high amount), as established by the law itself in paragraph 265. It should also be pointed out that during the last financial year compulsory current expenditure accounted for 91.56 percent of the total. This aggregate has been decreasing for years and includes savings and costs for senators and former senators, staff in positions of office, in quiescence or outside the administration, as well as all related charges, such as tax and social security charges. There is also a slight decrease, in the three-year period 2019-2021, also in relation to current operating expenditure in the strict sense, an aggregate which consists of all the expenses incurred for the provision of services, supplies and support to the functioning of the Senate, such as professional services for the administration, expenses for the activity of the Commissions and costs for IT services, communication, insurance, catering, transport, rental, cleaning and others. Capital expenditure is also decreasing: between 2019 and 2021, it rose from around €2.66 million to around € 1.722 million. It should be noted that the redevelopment of this item of expenditure has enabled significant investments to be made. Faced with such a marked reduction in expenditure as the one recorded since 2012, the challenge of course has been and still is to make the financial results achieved compatible, which testify to the participation of the Senate in the efforts to stabilize public finance in recent years, with the maintenance of a high quality standard of the services provided, all the more in a context that, at least until the end of 2021, has seen a constant reduction of the staff of role of the administration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u6	He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the College of Senators Quaestors, and therefore Senator Arrigoni and Senator Bottici here present, I shall present to the House a report on the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021 and the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2022. This is the last budget of this parliamentary term, but I would like to point out the figures, which attest to the daily and constant commitment of the political and administrative management bodies of this branch of Parliament in the rigorous and careful management of public resources. Careful management, rigour and quality of services: these were the principles we have been inspired by. I would like to say that these are also the three key words of this budget and of our work, despite the fact that in this parliamentary term we have unfortunately seen the pandemic burst from Covid-19, from 2020 until this year; however, the Senate has continued to work also during the lockdown, ensuring an important legislative continuity for our citizens, for our companies and for our Italy. I believe that this has been a truly extraordinary context. On the other hand, during 2022, we saw the international crisis and the resulting inflationary phenomenon, but this did not lead to any increase in the balance in our budget. Indeed, all this has been offset by a work of rationalization of the expenditure of the Senate's internal budget itself. The result that the forecast balance shows is therefore the consequence of the constant reordering of the administrative activity. I would like to turn to the explanation of the statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021. The total expenditure of the Senate, net of provisions of 2021, amounts to 445,729,870,94 euros, down by 3,215,425,74 euros compared to the final of 2020. The trend is decreasing and is even more marked if we compare 2021 data with 2012 data. During this period, in fact, the Senate's nominal expenditure was reduced by 6.35 percent, without clearly taking into account the inflationary effects. The relationship between the actual expenditure of the Senate and state spending is 0.042 percent: in fifteen years it has practically halved. I believe that this shows the attention we have given in this area of Parliament to the needs of our citizens at a time of great difficulty. Once again, the Senate is attentive to the realities of our territory, of our Italy. With regard to the supplementary health care budget of the senators (what we spend every month), a careful evaluation has allowed a surplus of EUR 2.5 million in management. I would remind my fellow Members that, more than ever before, given the constitutional reduction of Members, it would perhaps be appropriate to link up with the same supplementary health care as the staff. The compulsory current expenditure aggregate today represents 91.56 percent of all Senate expenditure in the Senate. The compulsory expenditure - which, as you know, in our budget, in addition to the salaries of staff and senators and the various expenditures - also includes the whole of the social security section - therefore represents more than 90% of our budget; and since the beginning of the parliamentary term, this represents a reduction of 8.1%. Step to the 2022 forecast budget. Again, the constant work of attention and rationalization of administrative activity has led to a number of important results, ensuring that, in addition to a reduction in expenditure, investment in innovation could be made, in order to anticipate in the future a more green Senate, more 4.0, attentive, also compared to the planning of the PNRR, to the new resources that are due to us, to give a concrete response to all this. The financial weight of the Senate on public finance decreased, from 2013 to 2022, by 344.1 million euros. It is a very important figure, which is given, on the one hand, by a lower budget - of 21,6 million euros - that in the context of all these years, from 2013 to 2022, leads to a lower impact on public finance of 216 million euros, and, on the other hand, by the additional direct savings we made in the Senate, which from 2013 to 2022 reach 128,1 million euros. This is a fundamental and important aspect, which shows the further attention we have paid to public expenditure. Clearly the reductions are also due to the functional integrations between the Senate administration and the Chamber administration, for example through the parliamentary documentation hub, the computer center, the library center and the close collaboration with the historical archives. The two branches of Parliament have joined forces to provide a better response and clearly better services with less spending. The same speech concerns the competition procedures of Community importance, some promoted by the House, others made directly by us, always in compliance with the forecasts dictated by the public procurement code and the code of the digital administration. I believe that this is one of the aspects of transparency that we wanted to give to this branch of Parliament. I now come to the salary front of employees, which records a reduction in the salary mass from 2011 to 2022 of 24.45 percent, net of new recruitments, which clearly, given the reduction in staff, are being made. With regard to parliamentary allowances (skills, ancillary, etc.), since the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the estimated cost savings are estimated at EUR 86 million. Respecting the curve of data from previous years, the percentage of expenditure on senators' allowance compared to the Senate's total budget has more than halved from 2011 to 2022, from 19 to 9 percent. Another fundamental aspect of the concrete work of our institution is the resources of the parliamentary groups. We have planned to keep this expenditure unchanged both for 2022 and for the next three years, also because with the reduction in the number of parliamentarians I believe that the contribution of the work that the parliamentary groups make for the establishment of the Senate, and consequently for all our citizens, is necessary and fundamental. I repeat, therefore, that we have felt that we have maintained the same budget allocation. I believe that this is an extraordinary aspect, but fundamental to the work that we must do in the near future. It should also be noted that, for the budget for 2022, the early end of the parliamentary term and in relation to the three-year budget for the years 2023 and 2024, account was taken of the savings resulting from the constitutional reform relating to the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament. The resulting savings have therefore been phased out, with a view to possible future expenditure on institutional needs related also to the issues referred to in agenda G3 (text 2), which was accepted during the examination of the 2021 forecast budget. I would like to make a brief comment on this: I am referring to the famous G3 agenda by my colleague, Mr Trentacoste, which we accepted last year. In this respect, a number of work has been done with colleagues in the House, who have also seen a series of agendas in the last budget a few weeks ago. On this agenda which they have accepted, we have also taken a look at, taking the same consideration and taking this as a recommendation, but with the attention that we have introduced into the Senate's Rules of Procedure with amendment 2.0,300, which was adopted at the sitting of 27 July 2022. Inside it there is a regulatory perimeter set for this type of provision, both for the employees of the parliamentarians and for those of the Groups. We are also committed to considering the possibility of defining, by the end of the parliamentary term, hopefully in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, a new discipline of the working relationship between the senators and the collaborators of the parliamentary groups on the basis of a regulatory framework that includes a whole series of contexts, as they have been considered. On the question of parliamentary allowances and ancillary powers, from the beginning of the last parliamentary term to the present day the estimate of expenditure savings stands at EUR 86 million, thus respecting the data curve of previous years, as the percentage of expenditure on senators' allowances, compared to the total budget, has risen to 9%. On the pay side of employees, there is a reduction in the wage bill of 24.45 percent. I believe that there are a number of really fundamental and important situations on these issues today. Another positive aspect of the Senate administration concerns the invoices of its suppliers, which are paid within thirty days: I believe that this is one of the administrations that, at European level, give an important response to all the companies and suppliers that work within them. As for the chapter on human resources, as I said before, we have started a whole series of competitions, for coadjutors and parliamentary assistants and soon for other professional figures within the Senate. With regard to permanent typing, too, I would like to point out that we need to reconsider pay treatment by providing for a series of steps and length of time that have matured, compared with what the Commission has defined for litigation. We then made a series of speeches on the Chamber, Commissions and Palaces of the Senate, which concern the audio-video services of the classrooms of all the Commissions, the video conferencing systems and the computerization of the ballot procedure of the vote of confidence. We have also done a series of interventions on the removal of architectural barriers for people with disabilities, which I believe is one of the equally fundamental and important aspects, making the Chamber of 14a accessible. Commission; a number of actions will shortly also take place in the 6th and 11th Commission. We have taken action to improve the air parts in the House and in the Commission classrooms, also in relation to the routes we have followed in the Covid procedures. In terms of energy efficiency, interventions have been carried out to reduce electrical and thermal consumption, with the installation of special sensors aimed at detecting the actual consumption of each building. There has been the enhancement of all aspects related to green, with low-consumption lighting, latest generation appliances and electric cars. Let's move on to computer infrastructure, with everything that follows, starting with cloud technology. In recent years, a Parliament 4.0 has been created, which, in addition to the benefits of innovation, has also saved us 19 million euros, from 2016 to today. The use of videoconferences in recent years has seen a series of system interventions aimed at allowing senators and the external context to access the Senate's works: a WiFi network with 207 accesses and 4,000 total devices, a Senate web-TV with seven channels at the same time and many other interventions that I am not here to highlight. There was a focus on investments for the Senate of the Republic of the near future. We have also done this in the context of the health crisis that we have had to face. In this regard, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dr Marini, director of the health center, with the awareness that this is the way to offer the most appropriate support to the performance of the functions that our Constitution assigns to the Senate as the central organ of the democratic life of the country. I begin with the conclusion, with due and heartfelt thanks from me, of Senator Bottici and Senator Arrigoni, therefore from the College of Quaestors, who are not thanks of circumstance, but are true and sincere. I would like to thank the President of the Senate, Mr Casellati, and I would like to thank the President, Mr Calderoli, who is now in office. I thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, for sharing these important and intense years of parliamentary life. It must be emphasized, among other things, that these results would have been impossible without the professionalism, the spirit of service and the dedication of the whole administration, which is really the soul of this machine, starting from the secretary general, Dr. Elizabeth Serafin, whom I thank from the heart [[Excellent applause from all the groups]] , to the deputy secretaries general, Dr. Federico Toniato and Dr. Alfonso Sandomenico, to the directors of the Services all, to all the collaborators, to the staff everything, to the women and men of the State Police, to the Arm of the Carabinieri, to the firemen and to the urban police, who are here with us and guarantee the safety of our palaces. [[Applause]] Finally, but not for the least, I would like to thank all the staff and our parliamentary assistants who are helping us here to ensure that our work is carried out on a regular basis. [[Applause]] Thank you all. Thank you for your attention, thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u8	No agendas were presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u11	TRENTACOSTE (IPf-CD). Mr President, what emerged from the Quaestor Senators' report and what we are going to vote on today are a draft internal budget for 2022 and a statement of Senate revenue and expenditure for 2021 in line with the process of rationalising this institution's expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures from the financial statements certify that the forecast was not wrong in 2020. In fact, a perfect coincidence has been achieved between revenue, expenditure and the corresponding financial envelope, in line with the expenditure containment mission undertaken by this institution for many years. On the balance of these active and passive operations, it is certain that it would always be better to make the operation of the High Chamber square with an increasingly high voice of positive balances in the accounts, but it should be achieved without clashing with the incompressibility of the costs of democracy. With regard to the forecast budget 2021, the declared target of containment of expenditure was confirmed by the results of the same year, which recorded a net effective final expenditure decreasing by approximately €3.5 million compared to the same figure for 2020. Therefore, with regard to the 2022 budget, increases in external costs and variable expenditure were offset by the budget reductions as set out in Table 1, as set out in Doc. VIII. We must not forget that the rationalization of expenditure has had to take into account, once again and for the third consecutive year, the pandemic situation and the consequences in terms of the rules for the conduct of the work of the Assembly and the Commissions, as stated by the College of Quaestors. However, as we have read from the results of the current budget, the budget of the Senate maintains a reduced budget now historic, amounting to about 20 million euros, i.e. it does not grow as it could have been expected and, on the contrary, confirms the structural line of containment and rationalization of the expenditure undertaken by the Senate. A further reduction was also seen with regard to the costs of the treatment of employees and all social security costs. If over the past ten years the Senate has managed to reduce its management costs, in thanking the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, who make this technical result possible, I cannot but thank, for their contribution, colleagues who, coming from civil society, have given impetus to the implementation of this good policy, exercising a healthy pressure of responsibility towards the governing bodies of the Senate, which made this possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude my speech with an emphasis on which, as you know, I am particularly interested: this is an important issue, such as the organisation of the employees of the groups and of parliamentary collaborators in terms of their professionalism, especially for the collaborators working in the various parliamentary groups. To date, the competent bodies of the Chamber and the Senate are beginning to regulate the relationship between the parliamentarians and the above-mentioned professionals, so the lack of regulation of the professional figure of the parliamentary collaborator dictates the employment relationship to the only and only bargaining between the parties. I believe that this aspect needs to be healed and therefore, once again thanking the College of Quaestors, I hope that the next Presidency Council will finally take all the necessary steps to arrive, in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, at the recognition of the figure of the parliamentary collaborator, taking as a model the solutions identified by the main European countries and also within the European Parliament. Mr President, I shall end by declaring the Group's vote in favour of the future - civic commitment to the Senate budget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u14	CRUCIOLI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, the accounts and the budget do not convince us. There are very unclear voices: we would like to know, for example, what are the ancillary services to functional support services, which Cuban 600,000 euros. We would like to know, for example, where are the costs of state flights, with full hands used by the President of the Senate Casellati. We would like to know, for example, whether they fall within those mobility services, transport services, which are worth EUR 6.800,000, i.e. whether only blue cars or even President Casellati's blue planes are in those voices. We would like to know more than about EUR 1.45 million that have been found, evidently without great effort, for ceremonial and representation expenses. This money has been found; instead, the funds have not been found to put in place, for example, the tapestry of the sixteenth century that are present in the Senate halls and that, as my colleague Margherita Corrado points out, fall to pieces. We are not convinced of this draft budget and this report, so we will vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u17	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, of course we from Italy Viva-PSI will vote in favour of this act. Again, I believe that the emphasis on savings is not merely rhetoric, but is part of an important work which has been done and which, in my opinion, has not been driven by ideological fury. I mean that my perception is that of a job done on the basis of a basic goal, which is the functionality of the system and not simply the so-called cut with the accept to be spent then politically. However, I would like to concentrate the few minutes of my speech not on what has been done - and that is a lot - but on an emphasis that is close to my heart and I believe all my colleagues. I am referring to an important issue such as the organization of the employees of the groups and of parliamentary collaborators in terms of their profession and professionalism and, in particular, the safeguarding of all the professionalism that they work in the various parliamentary groups. Parliament has often found itself taking measures in favour of the precarious, perhaps ignoring with guilt the situation of the employees of the Groups, who in some cases have served in different political components, demonstrating their professionalism and not only their attachment to a political colour, for several years (in some cases, even more than ten). We must take responsibility for linking some of the arguments that are often echoed in this House and which are also the subject of a translation into terms of legislative initiative. The latter is expressed through the behaviors that we then put in place and with consistency towards them. Often, in fact, we talk about the dignity of work, how (so much more in the phase that we are living) we must attack the theme of the precariousness of work and who lives this precariousness daily. Therefore, consistency would like this reasoning to be linked in the specific case, for those who work with us every day, both in the Groups and as a single collaborator, to a direct commitment to the professional classification. There are models we don't have to come up with. I am thinking of the European model, intended primarily as the one referred to by the European Parliament, which can be implemented with great simplicity in the sign of transparency, respect and dignity of those who work with us. I think it's a way to redeem ourselves from this image, from this uniform that often makes us wear and from this stigma that we carry as caste, which has an interest in opacizing any reasoning. I am also thinking of the possibility of framing group staff by means of standard contracts established by the Presidency Council on the basis of the tasks performed. This means transparency and respect for work. We must make a further contribution just now that a long page of republican history is closed, towards a Parliament that will see the number of its members reduced. You have to get out of this opaque shadow precisely by doing a positive operation for the employees of the Groups, but also for us, in the sense of making our activity even more effective, more functional and above all more willing to build a link between what we do and the real life of people. Having said that, I would like to thank our President, the excellent Vice-Presidents, the College of Senators Quaestors and the Presidency Council for their work to date and all that has been done over the years, and I am honoured to have participated in the first years of my presence here in the Senate. I would like to thank the Secretary-General, Dr. Serafin, for the great professionalism, esteem and affection always directed to me from the first day of our inauguration. [[Signs of concussion. Applause]] I thank all the staff of the secretariat, the officials and all the women and men of the organizational and administrative apparatus of the Senate, starting with those who welcome us to the concierge and those who help us in the Chamber and in the rest of the palaces of the Senate. [[Applause]] They live, attend and live the palaces every day and I must recognize that with their preparation, discretion and availability they have made us feel at home from the first day. Thank you all. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank those who, like Dr Marini, have had and still have the responsibility to lead the health care of this institution at such a difficult and complicated time, through preventive measures with the aim of securing Members and their collaborators. [[Applause]] Mr President, allow me another 30 seconds, since this is the last time we can speak. I also want to thank all my fellow senators and especially those with whom I have interwoven friendship and esteem. I would like to thank all the Senators of the Italia Viva-PSI Group and our President Matteo Renzi for the affection with which they immediately welcomed me and the confidence given me from the first day. [[Applause]] In particular, let me also thank our leader, Senator Pharaoh, for the esteem and friendship he has been able to give me, but above all for his great humanity. [[Applause]] Then I thank the boys (I call them that, but they are very serious professionals) of the legislative and organizational office of my Group, who have always answered me - even at night - and demonstrated willingness on all occasions. Today I can say loudly that I am sitting not only among a group of colleagues but also among a group of friends. Thank you for what you gave me, friends. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the President, my colleagues and the administration of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into working conditions in Italy, exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces, and the President and colleagues of the Commission of Public and Private Work, Social Security, of which I am a member. In particular, let me thank Dr. Gloria Abagnale and all her collaborators for the great professionalism and work. Last but not least, I would like to thank my collaborator, Riccardo Monaco, who, in addition to being a great professional, also gave me his friendship. This was important to me. [[Signs of concussion. Applause.]] I want to thank you all, because I had the honour of serving my country with you. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u20	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the College of Quaestors in the people of Senators Laura Bottici, Antonio De Poli and Paolo Arrigoni, who presented us with this budget and went through a particularly difficult period, like all the staff in the Senate. I would like to highlight some aspects of what senior commissioner Antonio De Poli has said about reducing Senate spending over the past few years. I will just quote two figures, which I want to highlight. Over the past ten years, Senate spending has increased from 475 million to 445 million euros, despite an inflation of 13%. During the same period, government spending rose from €794 million to €985 million. It is clear that the needs are different and the State has different starting points than the Senate. However, it is certain that if the State had, by far the most unlikely hypothesis, observed the same trend, we would now have problems placing the primary and secondary surplus of the state budget, rather than trying to reduce and buffer the increase in public debt. The reduction has been particularly marked in the area of the economic treatment of senators, as well as of course in all other sectors. I remember that a few years ago we wanted to make people believe - and it was also written in the newspapers - that the Italian Parliament was the most expensive in the world. Here, too, I quote only one figure among the many, namely that the United States Senate, which also consists of only 100 senators, spends $150 million a year on the direct collaborators of senators and that same item on this budget is less than $16 million. When it is said that the Italian Parliament is the most expensive in the world, then it is obviously not the truth, but I do not insist on the point. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians will involve a reorganization starting from the next legislature, which must go in the direction that has been tried to pursue in recent years and which has been achieved, namely to fully maintain the first function of the Senate, which is not to reduce expenditure, even if it has been carried out with great consistency in recent years by the quaestors senators, but to have an effective legislative activity, to be able to listen to the needs of the citizens and to be able to exercise its functions of inspection union, or control over the activity of the Government. This is the challenge that awaits us every year, but in particular with the passage that is about to take place. I would like to take the opportunity to join in the thanks, but I would like to do anyway, despite having already been mentioned, to the College of Quaestors, to President Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, to Vice President Roberto Calderoli, who is a certainty of this Assembly, and with him to the whole Council of Presidents, to the structure of the Senate, starting with Secretary General Elisabetta Serafin, to the Vice-Secretarys Alfonso Sandomenico and Federico Toniato and to all the staff of the Senate, who has always performed his work with great professionalism and punctuality, but in recent years, because of the pandemic, he has had particular difficulties; contrary to what has been proposed in some way, the Senate has never closed and has continued its activity always without limitations, except those dictated by prudence and measures for the containment of the pandemic. In this work the Quaestors were particularly active, but I would like to mention in particular Dr. Federico Marini, the elderly doctor, head of the medical structure of the Senate, who had great attention and great effectiveness. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The measures that were implemented here in the Senate before many other structures proved to be very effective, as well as the assistance that was given during the stay in this institution to all those who gravitate around the Senate, from staff to senators. I would also like to give a word to the employees of the Groups, to the collaborators of the Groups and to the collaborators of the senators, who are people of high professionalism and constant precariousness, because at the end of each legislature their working relationships are interrupted, sometimes even when there are conditions such as pregnancy and anything else, and every time there is a new restart, which does not always concern everyone. We must pay attention to these figures, which are indispensable for the proper functioning of the Senate. I therefore conclude my speech by announcing the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on the Report and the Senate's draft internal budget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u23	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, the reflections we have once a year on the operation of the Senate machine are important, because they represent a moment of overall evaluation, which the Groups and all political forces make on a fundamental institution like the Upper House of our country. In these years, the Senate has been put to the test, just like the Chamber of Deputies, by a series of extraordinary and exceptional situations, which have conditioned its daily work from the point of view of operation, but, on the other hand, also by equally extraordinary political conditions, which have put to the test its ability to give quality to parliamentary work. The conclusion of this legislature, with the evaluation we are preparing to make and with the vote in favour of these important documents, which concern the functioning of the Senate, is an opportunity to develop a reasoning. Meanwhile, it is an opportunity to thank the College of Quaestors, because, with the three-year budget proposal that is being presented, they have raised the concerns that have developed over the years on the issues that I have just mentioned. I believe that the sensitivities developed, the assessments and the reasoning that looked to the future have been gathered through this budget proposal, which must be read in close relation to what happened last week, namely the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. We have imagined for the Senate a new mode of operation, linked to the constitutional reforms approved in this legislature. The changes have a significant impact on the Rooms. We have imagined a new way of working, because the Commissions have been amended, and now we imagine writing the budget for the future, so that it fits positively with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure introduced. The fundamental choice is linked to maintaining the budget of the contribution to the Groups, because in the next parliamentary term we will have to start working again with certainties. Maintaining conditions that guarantee the same quality that we have today within the Groups, in order to be able to do the work that belongs to the elected, I believe is the basic starting point. Certainly in the future there will be the possibility, for those who will have the honour and the burden of being in the College of Senators Quaestors of the next legislature, to make all the assessments, adjustments and corrections that give greater efficiency to the work that will have to be done under the new conditions. This awareness is shared by all. I quote, incidentally, the work carried out on the rationalization of costs, because we have pointed this out so many times. Thanks go to the quaestor senators for the work that has been done, because this was also not trivial. Maintaining the efficiency of an institution in a trend of falling costs and expenses is a job that is not done without reason, but rather needs to be more reasoned, evaluated and weighed. I believe that the results we have before us are the most positive assessment that can be made of the work done in recent years. Of course, if there had not been the sharing and maximum collaboration of all, from leadership to all Senate workers at all levels, this work would have been more complicated. Thanks therefore go not only to the Quaestors De Poli, Bottici and Arrigoni, but also to the Presidency Council in the person of President Casellati; I too greet Vice President Calderoli for the experience he has put at the service of the work of all of us in recent years. I thank the Secretary General, Dr. Serafin, who, together with Dr. Toniato and Dr. Sandomenico, directs all the operational staff of the Senate: it was a fundamental contribution not only of accompaniment, but also of definition, reflection and reasoning on these developments. It is not just the thought developed by the representatives of the citizens, but it is the person who knows the machine in depth that makes a significant contribution, and this has been there. I do not want to forget Dr. Marini, who has been a traveling companion in the midst of the storm for all of us in recent years, absolutely decisive in order to ensure the working conditions that have allowed us to complete the legislature. I think I have said a little bit about everything and above all I have tried to grasp the aspects that will have to be taken into account in the future in order to assess the Senate's budget more and more in relation to the quality objectives of the work to be developed, including through the Regulations. I even think that the regulations themselves in the future can be corrected according to the checks that will be carried out on the ground. Again, a thank you must be addressed to all those who have accompanied us in this legislature: from the clerks to all the employees, who have assured maintenance to our work and our spaces. Finally, I would also like to touch on the question of parliamentary collaborators, which we quote every time and which we have not finally managed to unblock, because I believe that - rightly - this is an issue to be dealt with in conjunction with the House. It is not imaginable that there is a system of management and cooperation in this House which is different from that in force in the House of Deputies. I therefore believe that the Presidency Council should complete the work for the next parliamentary term together with the College of Quaestors and together with the House of Deputies. Now it is common awareness, everyone stresses it and, even after the audits and evaluations on the functioning of the Senate with the new Rules, I believe that the issue can finally be addressed with completeness. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u26	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I should like to make a very brief and, if you will allow me, existential consideration. First of all, with regard to the budget of this legislature from the point of view of the Senate administration, we really must say that our Quaestors, the President of the College of Quaestors and the others have done a fine job, because they have been terminal of the administration and terminal of the parliamentarians, and that is no small thing. They have taken responsibility for our problems and the problems of administration and have worked to settle and overcome the frictions that have sometimes been determined between politics and administration. This is a fundamental point and it is the role of the Quaestors: I have seen so many of them over the years and I must say that they have really been among the best that Parliament has given us. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT,UV) and the Senators Binetti and Tosato]] Of course the policy is us, so I greet Vice President Calderoli and President Casellati, who were our terminals, because we elected them. I would now like to talk about the administration and I would also like to thank the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretaries-General: they too have been very timely in doing support work for Parliament and this applies to all the staff of the administration. I want to make a point, but allow me an almost affectionate tone: I remember when they entered the Senate a few years ago some movements, for example the colleagues of the 5 Stars, with whom we have learned to appreciate each other over the years; we have seen their gifts and ours, when they were there, evidently. Well, at first they came into this House almost with the feeling that we were all enemies and that officials were the enemy's terminals. I believe that they were the first to understand that officials are the sign of the third-party situation in this House. Politics cannot ask for fidelity, we do not ask and we cannot ask for fidelity, because faithfulness is asked of dogs, not people. Faithfulness is asked of animals, it can have positive aspects, but in reality it is not to be ennobled. We ask for loyalty and third-party and from the officials of the Senate administration we have had loyalty and third-party, as well as from the parliamentary assistants and all the Senate staff. I want to end by saying one thing: if these assumptions are true, then what do they show? They show that we must love Parliament: knowing it, if you understand its value, even pedagogical. [[Applause]] In fact, there can also be "revolutionary" intentions in this House (this is part of politics, we cannot be scandalized), but, when we are here, there is a great pedagogical lesson that Parliament can give and this lesson is necessary, because when we are in Parliament, when the most anti-system forces are in Parliament, they are not in the streets and do not favour the exversion outside Parliament. [[Applause.]] That is why the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies must be fully considered the home of all Italians, because we are the reflection of the country, for good and evil. Of course, I wish all my colleagues well. We have also heard from Mr Carbone how much passion and affection there are in the bond that has been established over the years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u29	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the College of Quaestors, President De Poli and Senators Bottici and Arrigoni, for the excellent work that has been done in this parliamentary term. This is testified by the irrefutable data at the moment when today's internal budget is presented, as has been done in previous years: these are figures that testify to the concrete commitment of this branch of Parliament and the administration in a rigorous and careful management of public resources; all this, not only for this year, but also in the past years, at a difficult time for our country, as well as for the institutions and the Senate. The numbers that are being submitted to our attention today are the result of the effective and efficient work of rationalizing the expenditure of the Senate's internal budget. Above all, it is also the result of a work of reorganization of all the administrative activity of the Senate. If we look at some data, we see that the statement of expenditure for the financial year 2021, net of provisions, shows a decrease in expenditure compared to previous years, which - we can clearly say - is for the benefit of the whole community, since resources can still be used for other purposes of public interest. Speaking in very direct terms, the Senate has asked for less money from the State, because the resources that have been requested in recent years have been less; this means that we have left more resources in the state coffers for the citizens. The budget has been reduced by approximately EUR 21.6 million per year since 2011 and this means that structural action has been taken to reduce expenditure, so not exclusively episodic and related to this legislature. In addition to the savings generated by the lower budget, there are other savings: these are spending savings for the period in question, ranging from 2013 to 2022, for a total of about 128 million euros. In addition, further reductions are already foreseen as regards the operation of the administrative machinery, which also derive from the functional integrations already introduced between the Senate and the House administrations. We all know that these are currently two different administrations, but they have led to the birth of the parliamentary documentation hub and the parliamentary computer hub. The reduction of expenditure in recent years covers all areas and sectors, including staff salaries, which show a decrease in expenditure of 24%, net of new recruitment, and social security expenditure. Even with regard to parliamentary allowances and ancillary competences, from the beginning of the last parliamentary term to the present day, the estimate of expenditure savings is based on an amount in line with the data curve, which sees a saving and rationalization of the entire expenditure of the Senate administration. In conclusion, therefore, we can safely say, without a subject of denial, that the Senate offers an example of good administration. That is why I personally and on behalf of the entire Forza Italia Parliamentary Group congratulate the College of Senators on the work that the Quaestors have done over the years, including with regard to the international scene and the other institutions. In fact, we often examine ourselves and criticize ourselves; instead, if we compare with the other institutions and public administrations, as has been said before in the report by Senator Commissioner De Poli, we see that we pay invoices within 30 days of the date of receipt, so we are absolutely attentive to this further aspect. In fact, meeting deadlines is a crucial factor for the functioning of the national economy and is part of compliance with the European directives on payment of commercial debts, on which the European Commission carries out rigorous control. Well, the Senate paid invoices to its suppliers within thirty days, registering excellent standards in compliance with European standards. It was not at all a simple job and, in a critical and challenging scenario, some goals had to be achieved. Today the data, black and white, certify the work that has been done thanks to the virtuous initiatives that have been taken over all these years. All this improves the appreciation and I believe that this news should be disseminated, because it is really being rationalised and citizens must know that. However, the institutions are at their service and work alongside them, so these data must be perceived by citizens as good news. In this case, the news that must reach everyone is that the resources of the Senate have been managed wisely. Thank you and good work to everyone. ( [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the report and the draft internal budget. I asked for the floor simply because I would like to offer sincere and heartfelt thanks to Senators Quaestors for the work that has been done and for the support work carried out over all these years by officials and the Secretariat-General, who have allowed us all to work and have ensured that this institution achieves important results. Senators quaestors have shown that effective and important savings policies can also be made, while continuing to ensure the efficiency of services. I address a greeting to all of you and sincere thanks for these five years of work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u35	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the League Group, I too would like to join in the speeches of my fellow Members in thanking the quaestors for the work they have done over the past five years. We have entrusted this task surely to attentive, caring and conscientious people in managing the Senate budget, so we thank Senators De Poli, Bottici and Arrigoni [[Applause]] for the work they have done on behalf of the whole House. I would also like to thank the entire administration of the Senate, starting with the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretaries, the directors, the officials and all the staff that has accompanied us over the past five years with great professionalism, with great competence, with great willingness to face every situation, even emerging, that has occurred in the eighteenth legislature. Surely there was no manual to manage what has happened to us, so starting from the quaestors senators and from the whole structure there was a demonstration of efficiency in adapting to the needs that the country was experiencing and that, consequently, also lived the Senate, guaranteeing the safety of the health of all those who work in this great structure, but, at the same time, without that the works had a bending in the times and the quality of the service that we must guarantee regarding the legislative activity. I believe that we have dealt with this emergency in the best possible way and we must thank those who have put this task on their shoulders. As regards the 2021 and 2022 internal financial statements, the Group will vote in favour. We appreciate the fact that, despite the difficulties, there has been a surplus over the previous year of 3.5 million and we hope that the next budgets will still be in the virtuous line that this College of Quaestors has drawn. The challenge of the next parliamentary term will be to demonstrate that, in view of Parliament's decision to reduce the number of Members, the effectiveness of legislative activity in the Commissions and in this House will not be diminished; it will be necessary to ensure that this virtuous process can continue thanks to the choice of Parliament and the electoral body - which, in a referendum, has confirmed the reduction in the number of Members - thereby achieving further savings. It is obvious that the reduction of parliamentarians may lead to potential difficulties in the management of the work and in the representativeness of the territory. We hope, however, that it will have the virtuous aspect of reducing the costs of public and political machinery, as requested by the community. I would like to thank President Casellati and Vice Presidents, including Senator Calderoli, who is chairing the Assembly today, and I would like to thank the whole structure of the Senate once again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u38	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, we have come to the conclusion of the work of this parliamentary term. Of course there are more weeks to go, but it can be said that, with the closure of the Senate's accounts and budget, this legislature is also closed. As other Members have already done, I thank the Quaestors for the great work they have done, especially during the pandemic. We had absolutely no idea what could happen to us and how to handle the situation, but it was seen that the Senate was actually an example of management. I thank all the medical personnel and their senior executive, Dr. Marini. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, I thank the Senate administration, which has managed, with its professionalism, to be with us. I thank the Quaestors Laura Bottici, Antonio De Poli and Paolo Arrigoni, who, with their presence and boldness, have always managed to find a way to solve problems. I thank, of course, the Secretary-General, Dr. Elizabeth Serafin. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which is always next to the President, but in reality it is as if it were next to each of us. The professionalism of our Quaestors has allowed us not to stop during the pandemic. The administration has always worked at full speed. We invented seats in the stands and voting in the stands through the technological tool. But now we talk about numbers, because then we also need the so-called fat. 2013 is the year in which I entered the Senate, barely forty years old; despite this, every time I take the floor I get excited, as well as my colleague Carbone (so I understand it very well). [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Collina]] I remember at the beginning of the legislature I was doing some tests and there was a naughty colleague who shot a video to make fun of me. This is my habit, because I'm always very excited when I'm here. Well, since 2013 the Senate of the Republic has saved 344 million, of which 216 only of less budget required from the budget of the Senate. This is important: 216 million less equipment required are savings due to the carelessness with which the administrative machine was managed. In fact, the relationship between the actual expenditure of the Senate and the state budget has had a decreasing trend over the last fifteen years, from 0.083 to 0.042 (almost half). Not only that: the impact of parliamentary allowances on the Senate budget - as the senior commissioner reminded us - has gone from 19 percent to 9. We remind everyone that the spokesmen of the Movimento 5 Star since 2013 have renounced the additional allowances due to the further institutional role. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Being a budget forecast for 2022 and being at the end of the legislature, we can appreciate the fact that, in addition to the savings and investments made to make our Senate more modern, several structural changes have been made to the classrooms of the Commissions, with video transmission facilities, Internet connections and therefore - we talked about it during the pandemic - voting through technological tools. All this in order to make the Senate technological, which is fundamental. Another factor to bear in mind is the provision of savings in reserve funds, with a view to possible changes in the bargaining of parliamentary collaborators. I have noticed that all my colleagues have spoken about this point. Senator Malan reminded us that that of these figures is seen outside as an important work indefinitely and stable, while in reality they are precarious, with very high professionalism and excellent quality. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, as an administration, we have managed parliamentary collaborators for years without taking into account the fundamental need to give them dignity, through the security of their future work. [[Applause]] I therefore hope that through the proposal put forward, which will have to be managed by the future quaestors senators and the future administration, we can find a way to give certainty to the work of these people, who have been here for years and years to work for the State. In fact, while our presence is actually "momentanea," they very often have been inside these palaces for many more years than we have. I therefore take this opportunity to thank the great work of support given to us all by our collaborators. We know very well that there are also teams of collaborators working for the parliamentary groups and therefore I hope that the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, also wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, does not represent a reduction in quality; it is in fact a reform that has always been imagined, but that the Movimento 5 Stars has achieved, moving from imagination to realization. The reduction of quality can be avoided through professionalism, which is given above all by those who support the activities of the Groups and individual senators. There will therefore have to be an eye on the part of future quaestor senators, so that the budget for individual parliamentarians is not reduced as well and, indeed, is increased inversely in proportion to the number of parliamentarians, because it is essential not to reduce the quality of work and the number of people working in support of parliamentarians, since each parliamentarians can be called to participate in several committees. I hope that the reform on the management of parliamentary collaborators will also be done by looking at what is happening in Europe, because it would give transparency, effectiveness and security to these professionalisms. As I said, the legislature is now over and the new quaestors will have to take responsibility for the management of the funds and be careful in the spending of the funds, as the current ones have been. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. This is an explanation of vote and it is obvious that, through my words, the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars is taken for granted. Of course, I can only say a special thank you to our Senator, Commissioner Laura Bottici. [[Applause]] , which has played this role with seriousness and professionalism since 2013, when we entered Parliament. We know very well - we knew from the beginning - that we have the rule of two mandates: we need a generational replacement, this is the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u39	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021 (Doc. VIII, No 9). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2022 (Doc. VIII, No 10). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.29 a.m. and resumed at 12.43 a.m.) As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the sitting is suspended again and will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12:43 a.m. and resumed at 15:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u40	The Conference of the Leaders has established, by majority, that the session of the Assembly today will continue with the examination of the following measures: ratification on the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; ratification Italy-Canada on youth mobility, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; delegation to the Government for the revision of the military and national instrument, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; account 2021 and settlement 2022, approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, at 9.30 a.m., provides for the discussion, from the writing site, of the draft law laying down provisions on justice and tax proceedings. The Conference of Leaders will meet tomorrow morning at 11 a.m. to determine the continuation of the work schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u43	CRUCIOLI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, I rise to express my opposition to the timetable. As I explained at the Conference of Leaders, you would like to discuss and vote on NATO's enlargement to Finland and Sweden today. This decision is very delicate and, as you know, in addition to the war in Ukraine, there are tensions in other outbreaks: I am talking about Kosovo and Taiwan. In this situation, in this powder keg, to take a decision on the enlargement of NATO to the borders with the Russian Federation may mean to throw more gasoline on the fire and create further tensions. I believe that it is not only inappropriate, but also technically incorrect, to make this happen to a Parliament which is under the regime of extension, which has lost the link and representativeness of the electoral body. We could very well postpone this vote to October when the new elected Chambers are in place. In addition, today you would like to vote on other delegated laws: yesterday you did so in relation to the delegation on competition that will essentially give mandate to the next Meloni-Berlusconi-Salvini government to intervene on goods and public services, and you would like to do so today with other delegations. In the Conference of the Leaders, among other things, this was evident, because the leader of the Romeo League clearly said that, for example, the tax delegation will be voted by them only if there is assurance that the new Government will make the implementing decrees. In my opinion, this highlights an unconstitutional nature, because the Chambers have limited sovereignty at this time and during the period of extension may, according to the Constitution, only deal with certain issues, not with delegations. In my view, therefore, the timetable should be purified, on the one hand, by the decision on the enlargement of NATO to Finland and Sweden and, on the other hand, by all the bills containing delegations. My proposal is to reformulate the timetable, removing the ratification of NATO's enlargement to Finland and Sweden and the delegated laws on today's agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u44	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable, made by Senator Crucioli, aimed at expelling from the schedule of proceedings the draft ratification law on the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO and of delegation to the Government for the revision of the national military instrument. It's not approved. I have the counterproof, although the result seems quite clear to me. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u45	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2684, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Craxi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u46	Madam President, I would just like to make a very brief comment, with the requests that the text of my report be handed over to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u47	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u48	Mrs Craxi, rapporteur. I want to salute the speed with which the Senate of the Italian Republic is preparing to ratify this measure, which I do not hesitate to define as historic, which strengthens the European front at a time marked by the aggressive protagonism of Russia, revitalizes the Euro-Atlantic bond and, at the same time, offers solid assurances to two countries that feel threatened. The strengthening of the Atlantic Alliance is the best path for peace that recent events have shown can no longer be guaranteed by cooperation, but by deterrence. Italy, on the very day that the United States Senate is called upon to give its opinion on the enlargement of the Atlantic perimeter to Sweden and Finland, has once again proved farsightedness and a solid anchor to Western values. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u49	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u52	DESSI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IDV). Mr President, I am sorry that I could not take part, because of other commitments - I understood that the vote would take place this afternoon in the Commission at 3 p.m. - but my vote would have been very much against. As our president, Senator Mattia Crucioli, recalled, there is a problem here that goes beyond the fact of having inserted two countries, which rightly can, for their sovereignty, decide on which part of the world to be on. Our problem, however, is all political and does not clearly concern either Sweden or Finland, but the clear attitude of the Italian Government and most Italian parties, who then struggle to differentiate their foreign, economic, social and environmental policy. We saw, just a few minutes ago, the vote on a proposal to amend the timetable, in which we were asked, with common sense, to ratify ourselves that this Parliament is dissolved. Instead, they all voted to show that this Parliament exists, when they know very well that your leaders and our leaders have no commitment at this time to safeguard the peace of the world, but their only commitment is to safeguard your armchairs. We have seen, in the vote on the articles of this treaty, how easily the new opponents of the Movimento 5 Stars, who seek a space on the left, have voted against all the countries of the left and socialists of the world, because outside of this NATO and outside of this Europe there is a world. There is a world made up, territorially, of millions and millions of square meters, occupied by billions of people. The accounts are easy, Madam President: the United States, to date, regardless of GDP, is a great nation, with 350 million inhabitants. Europe as a whole is more or less equal to the same figure. Do we want to add Japan, South Korea, a piece of Australia and a piece of South Africa to these two great superpowers? Are we to say, in general terms, that there are a billion people who have in their primary interest the protection and defence of American economic interests? Are we to say that there are a billion people who are terrified that the other 7 billion people living in this Earth do not want sanctions anymore, do not want indiscriminate attacks, do not want the increase of weapons anymore, do not want the aggressions of a superpower anymore? Since 1949, when this ridiculous act of NATO was drafted, which was to be a US-led company, which manufactured weapons and defended the rest of the world, these things have changed to date. Very soon your children, our children, will realize the madness of the radicalization of this confrontation. [[Applause]] It's not Russianphobia, it's not love or love Putin! It wasn't me sleeping in Putin's bed, it wasn't me in Putin's red square wearing Putin's face shirt, it wasn't me in line outside his office waiting to be received. They were the ones sitting on the other side of this hemicycle. [[Applause]] They were the ones who hosted them with megayachts in our ports, they were the ones who sold him the bottles of Brunello at 10,000 euros, probably already gone bad, they were the ones who "sold" with the T-shirts of Fendi "taroques" manufactured in Naples, the poor Russians who came here, over-enriched, shopping, not us! We have only always said that we want to be simply multipolar: a simple word, Madam President. Being multipolar means that today there is also a world made by China, which is the first world power and which exports huge quantities of goods from us, which we buy, because the poor part of our country needs Chinese products, and the rich part of the Chinese people buys our quality goods. Our Ferrari travel the streets of Beijing and our fashion brands are worn by the ladies and men who have made wealth in China. Continuing to radicalize this confrontation means only preventing our children from living in a world in which everyone would have full dignity, in which everyone could travel freely, in which everyone could access the riches of this country, their cultures, their ability and willingness to be friends on the same earth and with the same same rights. We will vote no, not to be against Sweden and Finland, whose dignity we respect; we are against it because moving forward with these continuous provocations, as the Pope said, barking at the doors of Russia, means facing the nuclear war risk that we intend in all ways to eliminate and cancel forever. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u55	Nocerino (IPf-CD). Mr President, today, with the ratification of the Protocol for the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty, we are preparing to make a gesture of great historical significance, which will mark the fates of the West for many years to come. The two Scandinavian countries are a bastion of democracy, civil rights and the rule of law. Ever since the Cold War, they have gravitated into Western geopolitical orbit and became members of the European Union in 1995. We are therefore talking about two solid countries, with a democratic tradition with deep roots, a prosperous economy and a strong international profile. The will of the two countries to join the Atlantic Alliance, despite the neutralist strategic culture that distinguished them, is a direct consequence of the brutal invasion of Ukraine by Putin's Russia. It is clear that the authorities of the two States have considered that the danger of an extension of the conflict on their territories, so close to Russian territory, is not as remote as it used to be. In all these years, the two countries have joined the clear and convinced cooperation with the Euro-Atlantic bloc from a cultural, political and economic point of view with a foreign policy of non-alignment, also due to its geographical proximity to the Russian Federation. Neutrality has guaranteed Sweden and Finland security for over seventy years, safeguarding its independence and allowing economic and social prosperity. In particular, Finland has committed itself over the years to maintaining a state of neutrality in order to maintain good neighbourly relations with the Soviet Union first and with the Russian Federation later. Evidently, this positioning is no longer enough today. After 22 February of this year, Sweden and Finland faced a potential Russian threat that is rapidly changing the geopolitical situation. Putin's decision to deliberately invade the territory of the sovereign state of Ukraine has upset the world, bringing us back decades, has brutally wiped out the peace that has been successfully conquered and maintained in Europe and forces us all to make a clear choice of field. The civilian communities of the two Scandinavian countries have convincedly reconsidered their neutralist vocation by calling for membership of the Atlantic Alliance, which was later ratified by their respective parliaments. Italy is a founding member of NATO and finds in the values of democracy and freedom its own reason for being, sanctioned by the constituent Fathers of the Constitutional Charter. No doubt we are allowed. We are and will remain part of the Atlantic Alliance, whose destiny is indissolubly linked to that of our country. The entry of Sweden and Finland marks a crucial but necessary turning point in NATO's expansion policy. First of all, it is an expansion towards the North that will ensure the Alliance's presence in a region that has acquired and will become increasingly important in international geopolitical competitions. The Arctic, in fact, due to climate change and the consequent melting of ice, is transforming into a region with increasing navigability, greatly increasing its strategic importance; a fact, well known to Putin, which has long identified its commercial and military potential. Secondly, unlike the enlargements in the last 30 years, the two states facing the Arctic were not part of the Warsaw Pact. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Eastern European States turned to the Atlantic Alliance as a result of the political and social upheaval, in need of security and inclusion in the Western world, as Ukraine would have liked. This is not the case in Sweden and Finland, countries that have historically directed their international trajectory towards neutrality, despite the clear placement in the western beehive. It must be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that two countries which have maintained neutrality even in the historical period of the Iron Curtain now turn to the Atlantic Alliance to ensure their own security. Their inclusion in the Atlantic Pact thus represents the consolidation of a long relationship of political and cultural cooperation and closeness, but also a decision taken by the tragic necessity that war has placed before us. The entry of two new allies with a powerful and consolidated army will further strengthen NATO's ability to ensure the security of its members and strategic partnerships. On the other hand, the gravity of the moment requires us to be aware that we have to face the challenges that will come with unity and responsibility. There is no room for ambiguous positions, not to say disturbing connivances, towards those who invaded a free country and reported the horror of war on the European continent. The Atlantic Pact strengthens and, with it, must renew the closeness of the free peoples, united in the values of democracy and equality. We of the Group Together for the Future - Democratic Centre have clear the responsibilities that the citizens have entrusted to us and we will not escape to fulfill our duties for the security of the Republic in the years to come. For these reasons, I am voting in favour on behalf of my Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u58	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, my friend - if I may use this term - Senator Dessì, committed to solidarity with the Sandinista revolution, was a distracted moment on European matters. I have great human affliction with him. There is humanity before politics and so, sometimes, we find ourselves in dissent. Mr Dessi, those who support the oppressed people, like you, cannot but vote - if you will allow me - in favour of this measure. In fact, the Treaty in question stems from the revolution that has materialized in recent years as a result of what, in geopolitical terms, has meant the invasion "to Ukraine." There is no war in Ukraine; there is a war in Ukraine, as we forget too many times. [[Applause]] The response of the Western community with this Treaty, which is fundamental to me in terms of importance, is to give security and welcome, in a community of values, to Finland and Sweden, a Republic and a Kingdom that are in all and for all incardinated in our system of values and life (in addition to the fact that they must be considered - open and close parenthesis - the extraordinary bilateral relations). We also remember the extraordinary work that these countries do on the reception. A few years ago I went to the Kurdish region of northern Iraq and I saw Christians forced to flee from the Nineveh plain. Many of them have found hospitality in Sweden, Finland and the other countries of Northern Europe which, in terms of reception and integration, can represent so much for us. I gladly intervened because this is not a bureaucratic agreement that we ratify like many others; it is a fundamental choice that this Senate of the Republic, in full office, makes. I would always like to address my colleague and friend Dessì. You blamed the fact that there's a broad convergence. I tell you the truth: for me it's exactly the opposite. I am glad that my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars vote for this measure. For me it has a very high meaning and it is a sign that a party led by a former President of the Council, despite total dissent with others, votes for this measure. In the same way, it is a sign that in these months and years Brothers of Italy, the only opposition group, has helped President Draghi in the choices of international politics. This is the value of Parliament's centrality, because governments pass by, but Parliament remains in all expressions and in this vote there is the expression of a national collectivity and, if we were to question or make a survey, not about parties, but about this, we would see that there is a broad unity. Therefore, Senator Craxi, I fully agree with your report and will vote in favour of this document, as I believe it is a significant step that links these to the great international policy choices of our country that have honored us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u61	NUGNES (Misto-Man.A Pap PRc-Se). Mr President, with regard to the issue that we are ratifying, it must be made clear that, in addition to throwing petrol on the fire, as has rightly been said at the outset, this is certainly a demand that has a cost. Beyond the legitimate position of Sweden and Finland, until recently neutral, to enter NATO, although it is another extreme enlargement of a military system that should have closed in the nineties, we do not take into account the fact that the Kurds have been exchange currency with regard to this entry, and this is very serious, because they are paying the highest price at this time, in Syria, as in Iraq. The price paid by Ukrainian citizens is certainly high, but the price paid by Kurdish citizens who have been killed, tortured and forgotten every day is also high. Our country ran to arms with military support in Ukraine without ever listening to Italian citizens who, as the polls tell us, asked to stop the war and not to feed it. We bowed miserably to Erdogan. It is news of these days of yet another massacre in Syria with drones and missiles targeted against various fighters, including a prominent commander. From the USA comes a mere message of condolence, but without indicating who is responsible. Turkey, like Russia, is violating Article 2 of the United Nations Charter, but no country has moved a finger. We use double standards and from Italy the only reaction is silence. That is why we will vote no and we will know who voted yes, although it is said in another progressive area. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u64	PACIFIC (Misto-MAIE-CI). Mr President, fellow senators, the Government, the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO is to be welcomed and supported. In the face of the unprecedented and unjustified Russian aggression against Ukraine, the strengthening of the Atlantic Alliance is a fundamental step. I consider it a deterrent to new Kremlin threats. Their entry, President, is fundamental for that geopolitical area, in terms of strategic importance for security and energy supplies, and it is for these reasons that I declare the favorable vote of the Coraggio Italia component. I take advantage of this speech, Mr President, to declare the vote in favour of the draft law No 2605 on the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Italian Republic and Canada on youth mobility.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u67	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are stronger together. The accession to NATO of Sweden and Finland, which we are about to ratify, strengthens and compacts us as the Atlantic Alliance, which is the best weapon we can put in place to condemn and combat the war that Russia has waged against Ukraine and also to equip ourselves to the best of the many geopolitical crises that are taking place, unfortunately also close to our borders. With our vote, we make possible the formal passage of the two Nordic countries as invited within the Atlantic Alliance. This is undoubtedly an epochal turning point for Sweden and Finland, which have renounced their established position of neutrality, driven by Russian interventionism and the awareness of being in danger with a neighbour like Putin. We, who believe in multilateralism, thank you, first of all because we know that it is not obvious, for a country, to change our mind on such identity issues as foreign policy and international relations; then, we thank you for taking a step that secures us too: their accession, in fact, is certainly useful to make the Atlantic Alliance safer and stronger, already starting from the start of this process. With this decision, Sweden and Finland show vision and intelligence, because they choose to protect their peoples and, at the same time, contribute to defending the values of freedom and self-determination that we democratic countries are defending firmly in opposition to Moscow. That is why this vote is so important. It is not only a formal fulfillment, but it outlines a clear positioning of our country alongside NATO and the principles of respect for territorial integrity and the safeguarding of freedoms. At the same time, it is a clear denunciation of the Russian aggression against Ukraine. That is why it is important for our Parliament to express, clearly and unanimously, on which side Italy wants to be: on the side of peace, against any illegitimate aggression; on the side of the rights of peoples not to be victims of invasion and therefore, against Putin's Russia, guilty of the war in Ukraine. The choice is easy, as President Casini said just now: there is no doubt. We are facing a war on Ukraine, so there can be no ambiguity. That is why it really leaves us dismayed and unbelieving yesterday's vote in the House, where a colleague, who is an authoritative member of a nascent alliance that firmly proclaims himself an Atlanticist, Mr Fratoianni, voted against this ratification. It voted against the enlargement of NATO aimed at greater national and international security. [[Applause]] We in Italy Viva seriously wonder how a vote of this kind can be reconciled with an alliance that aspires to give the country an Atlanticist and democratic leader. Putin's attack on Ukraine has put us all in front of a new world and, if the return of the war to Europe at first caught us by surprise, we were also able to react cohesively. Europe and the Western countries have reacted by uniting under the common values of freedom and democracy, therefore the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO is only the last part of a broader path of defending the rights of peoples. Together we are stronger and our populations are safer. With our resistance to the Russian invasion, we have reinvigorated Europe and NATO. By welcoming Sweden and Finland, we continue on this path. We in Italy Viva have no doubts about how to vote and we hope that our country will express without a shadow of doubt on which side to stand, in this legislature and also in the next. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u70	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we have no doubts and no doubts as to where we are to stand. Of course, all the more so today, when Sweden and Finland have ratified the Treaty of the Atlantic Alliance, which, ladies and gentlemen, is not a formal fact, but a historic event. It is a historic event for three reasons: indeed everything, because the countries we welcome - Sweden and Finland - had made neutrality their raison d'être and now they have chosen, were forced to choose. It is a historic event for the moment when it occurs, with a war on the borders of our Europe, in which Italy, like all Western and Atlantic democracies, is committed to supporting Ukraine's freedom, its independence and its integrity. It is a historic event because - yes, for once - our country, Italy, and our Parliament have been united; it is a virtually unanimous unity, which I believe is due - you must recognize it, ladies and gentlemen, the Italians recognize it - to the precise, determined, coherent and responsible choice of Brothers of Italy, who from the beginning encouraged Parliament to stand up for the attacker and against the aggressor. [[Applause]] If we had not made this choice of responsibility, Italy would have once again appeared unreliable for your divisions and hesitations. It is a historic turning point because Sweden and Finland are great democracies and with their accession it is strengthened and it is evident that, at the basis of the Atlantic Alliance, there are common values of freedom that today more than ever we must defend against the challenge launched by the totalitarian, autocratic and imperial systems that want to subdue us, as they are trying to subdue Ukraine, and perhaps tomorrow Taipei. This shows that the Atlantic Alliance has common values in the rule of law and in the democratic principles it expresses and protects, in the emblematic value of freedom, which, if you will allow, is the basis of well-being - I say this to some colleagues - in the face of authoritarian systems that claim to be able to guarantee it better than us even in the absence of freedom. Well-being without freedom doesn't interest us. [[Applause]] At the Madrid Summit, as well as establishing membership of the Atlantic Alliance, Russia was determined to be the most significant and direct threat, and in these hours we must also realise what is happening in the Balkans, Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina, another of Putin's objectives of expansionism, as demonstrated by Lavrov's failed journey. At the same time, it is important that this has happened while NATO redefines its objectives and Europe begins to come to an agreement on the need for a common defence, which does not mean a common army, but sharing security and defence with a scale of priority, all the more important for what might still happen. Sweden and Finland are great democracies, but they are also countries that have developed an efficient military defense. They will help us to protect the North Front where the threats to Kaliningrad, then the Baltic States and the Arctic, where Russia's military expertise and supremacy in relation to the West will develop. We will therefore be able to devote ourselves more to the South front, where, for the first time at the Madrid Summit, the need for a centrality of the defence of the enlarged Mediterranean, then of the Balkans, the South Bank and Africa, which must be our bet has been identified, because that is where it develops and ends - hopefully for us, that is for the world of freedom and development - the titanic confrontation between East and West. 15:39 p.m. (Follow Urso). We Italians must be aware of this more than others in the protection of the enlarged Mediterranean, in an Atlantic European policy towards Africa that is not only military, but that it is above all a social, economic and productive policy to grow and grow the continent with us. Ladies and gentlemen, other equally democratic countries - I am referring to Germany and Japan today - have already decided to change the Constitution in order to enable their peoples to defend themselves and to prepare a better defence. We must reach as soon as possible the target of 2% of investment in the field of defence to make our contribution, today more than ever decisive, because it is in the enlarged Mediterranean that there is the greatest challenge between the West and the East, not only towards Russia and Islamic fundamentalism, but also China, which in the enlarged Mediterranean finds its reasons for being and the natural outlet of its logic of economic and productive dominance through the Silk Road. Ladies and gentlemen, you are surprised that the right is on this position. The right - and those who know the history of the Republic know this - has always been on the side of the Atlantic Alliance and has voted and helped to choose at the most decisive moments, when Italy had to face the challenge. This was also the case in 1983, when the Communist Party and the Italian left came to the streets against the installation of cruise and pershing missiles, which were the decisive act in the cold war between the West and the East. Then, the Italian Social Movement voted for that decisive act and allowed Italy to be the first country to unlock the defense, that is to install the cruise missiles, to which the others would then follow, while the Italian left was on another side, on the other side of history, which then turned out to be a loser. You must not be surprised by our determination, our coherence and our responsibility, which led to the unity - I would say almost unanimously - of our Parliament even when we had to vote on sending weapons to Kiev. Attention, because it is not over here: we all know that the months to come and the coming weeks will be decisive, also with regard to the war conflict and we must be aware, coherent and responsible at all times and support with determination and continuity the Ukrainian resistance in the face of the invader, who uses every means of destruction, more and more bloody. We must give a signal of reliability. We'll do it by the majority, of course. If the citizens want to, if the voters reserve us the leadership of the country, we will be assured that Italy will keep its commitments, because it is our national interest. I hope that the opposition of the future will not change its position. I hope that the political forces represented here will not change their position in changing the minds of the majority to the opposition. I hope that you too will show the same coherence, determination and responsibility as we have set an example in these months and years. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u73	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, this is not an ordinary ratification, but it is a very important political act for more than one reason. First of all, after the sensible decision not to vote for the Dragon Government by some political forces present here, it was clear that they toasted in Moscow. They did this because Draghi's leadership in Europe is credible. In that symbolic photo in Kiev he took Olaf Scholtz and Emmanuel Macron by the hand, opening the way to Ukraine towards the European Union, with the decision of the candidacy, in accordance with the aspiration of that people, who have the right to choose which side to look on (in that case, on the side of liberal democracies). They toasted, because they thought they were interrupting a positive process, with Italy fully in the Atlantic field, fully pro-Europe, fully in support of the choices made by the Atlantic and European allies. We have therefore done well, both as a Government (which still has the powers to do so) and as a Parliament (which still has the powers to do so), to quickly reach the ratification of this measure, to give a strong signal: Italy is and is fully in the Atlantic field. I also address Senator Urso, President of the Copasir: we do not need atlantism lessons from the sovereign right. We know very well where we stand, both when we are in the government and when we are in the opposition. [[Applause]] , and we have always shown this, first, by being at the side of Ukraine, with courageous words from the secretary of the Democratic Party Enrico Letta, the first to say that we would put in place all kinds of support and help to a people attacked by a nuclear power. Today we have to decide on ratification so that Sweden and Finland can join the Atlantic Alliance, something unthinkable until a few months ago, as the debate within Swedish and Finnish companies shows. I sometimes register a very simplified, provincial debate by some political forces, all Italian, all ideological, without the slightest respect for the debate in those countries, for the fear and concern that emerged regarding a change of phase, attitude and posture of Russia towards those countries. Those governments have radically changed their position, because a striking fact has happened, a remarkable caesura in geopolitics, relations and international relations in the heart of Europe: an aggression that touched the two main principles of the international community, the inviolability of borders and territorial integrity, something that could not remain unanswered and that represented an attack, finally, on liberal democracies. What struck Putin most was that in a capital a few kilometres from Russia's borders there was a government that decided no longer to look at a privileged relationship with Moscow, but at Brussels, at a community of values, principles, in which people, goods and services can turn freely, therefore to a different model, and this was unacceptable to him. The choice that we make, among other things, in a particular electoral situation, is of particular importance today. In this I share what President Urso said: there are issues that must be protected from the election campaign and that must be the heritage of all political forces with a culture of government. From this point of view, we have no doubt. This ratification is important for another reason: it is the most effective response to those who thought that we could somehow ignore the Russian aggression, Putin's underestimation of the reaction of the Western world, the Atlantic Alliance, the main countries of the European Union; he even thought that he could curb Ukraine's ambitions to enter NATO, which is also a topic for discussion within the Atlantic Alliance itself. The Italian Government itself, from 2008 onwards, had no doubts, but a lot of caution about the policy of open doors to Ukraine, all to be decided and to be deepened. Putin has managed to achieve the opposite effect: to mature within Sweden and Finland, first in public opinion, then in governments, a radical choice of discontinuity compared to the past, fully supported by the Atlantic partners and the main European countries. It is therefore doubly important to ratify this ratification, not ordinary, but symbolic, which we do well to approve together today. The vote of the Democratic Party, which has always been consistent with the axes of Italian foreign policy and membership of the Euro-Atlantic institutions, can only be strongly in favour of the bill of ratification in our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u76	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important measure, which we could call historic. It was given only this morning to the Foreign Affairs Committee and, as the first act of my speech, I believe I must acknowledge to the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Senator Stefania Craxi, that I have managed to schedule it in record times with great capacity and thanks to the work of the offices (I would like to thank Dr Baiocchi and all the officials in this regard). Above all, I must say that we have set a record: as many of you know, the subject of NATO membership will be dealt with at 7.30 p.m., Italian time, by the American Senate, so we will presumably arrive before our allies. This is also a reason for pride and merit for Italy, which has shown great fidelity to the values of the Atlantic Alliance and to Western values. As Forza Italia, we have always remained, by political tradition, on the path indicated by President Berlusconi, that is, the path of peace. He said Latin wisdom: vis pacem, para bellum. We must have this principle always well in mind, because if we think that through pacifism or through the "peacemakers" we can reach peace, we immediately get out of the way. Today we have a task and I say this to my friend Dessì, who is humanly sympathetic to me, but I do not accept that anyone who is not on the side of Cuba, Maduro or China is on the wrong track. We defend democracy, the West and above all a great principle, that of freedom, which President Silvio Berlusconi has indicated to us as a beacon in our political activity. I say this to Mr Dessì: there is a before and after; it is useless to decontextualize certain behaviors, a handshake, an perhaps international agreement - I am thinking of Sea Practice and the importance that that agreement had - because the first and the next are represented on February 24 of this year, the date of the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Today, therefore, we need to understand what the field choice is. The European and world geostrategic landscape has changed radically - we must say - as a result of this attack. Moreover, the Russian forces, who pretended to replicate the success of the occupation of Crimea, find themselves, more than five months after the beginning of operations, to boast a modest penetration into what they define their enemy territory: a contained result, for a nation that claims the status of planetary superpower; what unfortunately is not Europe, and also on this we must question ourselves. The conflict has speeded up so many things and Europe cannot be just that of the single currency: we must become a political Europe with its common foreign policy, its common defence policy and its energy policy and its common raw materials supply policy. If we come out of this perimeter, the risk of a conflict, even within a non-superpower Europe, is more than concrete. The Russian Federation is now hit by very harsh sanctions, which undermine its civilian and military productions, and above all it has been placed in a state of complete international isolation. I would like to remind you that not even Lukashenko's Belarus, which at first seemed determined to do so, followed Putin's policy. China itself, which had "jured" an unshakable friendship with the Russian Federation, for fear of compromising trade with the West, no longer provides any kind of assistance and prepares to replace European countries as a cheap Russian gas buyer. On the other hand, there is the Atlantic Alliance, which seemed to have lost all function in the face of Russia's apparent abandonment of antagonistic policies and summed up its function as political-military cornerstone in the Euro-American world and as a defensive bulwark of freedom and democracy. Countries that seemed marginal, such as the Baltic States and Poland, have become indispensable allies, as a cornerstone of the resistance to the new Soviet imperialism. In this context, of course, the decision of Finland and Sweden to leave the traditional neutrality and defensively adhere to the Atlantic Pact is placed. The Russian Federation, which claimed to restore its sphere of influence towards the West on the Tsarist-Soviet model, is now faced with a NATO containment wall that before February of this year was not even imaginable. The coastal nations of the Baltic Sea, on which the ultra-militarized Russian enclave of Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg themselves face, will all be part of the Atlantic Pact after the entry of the two Scandinavian countries; a geostrategic consequence of the war that the Russian Federation has not even been able to advocate. Sweden's de facto neutrality dates back to the time of the Napoleonic Wars and Finland's international status, which declared itself neutral during the Cold War and which since the 1990s was considered militarily unaligned, was a sort of model, to the point that, before the beginning of the Russian aggression, several parties imagined a finlandization of Ukraine. In fact, the two countries, because of the Russian military pressure, had already collaborated for years with the structures of the Atlantic Alliance. The accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO is therefore an extraordinary factor in stabilising the Balkan-Scandian area and a further guarantee of security for our country. For all these reasons, I strongly announce the vote in favour of the measure for our examination of the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u79	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to express ourselves on this important draft ratification law concerning the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the Atlantic Alliance. It is certainly a significant step, given the long tradition of non-alignment that these two countries had in the post-war period; a strategic approach, that of non-alignment, which allowed Sweden and Finland to remain close to the West, but to maintain a good relationship with the cumbersome Soviet neighbour. The historic decision of the two countries to stop this strategic approach to officially join NATO is clearly a direct consequence of the Russian aggression in Ukraine last February, which has followed several assertive Moscow policies over the years. This does not mean that the choice of Sweden and Finland is due solely to quota factors. Both countries have started a process of modernisation and transformation of their security and defence policies, which has made military cooperation with the Atlantic Alliance increasingly frequent and which makes their entry an added value for the Atlantic bloc. A small strategic reflection on NATO's enlargement to these two countries. We are talking about a new enlargement director, towards the North, who clearly brings new opportunities and new challenges. Expanding the perimeter of security entails unprecedented burdens and responsibilities for NATO. Competition on the Arctic, at the moment marginal in the interests of the Atlantic Alliance, can regain a new weight as a result of this accession process. The Russian invasion in Ukraine has given great prominence to the East-European front, which has returned to the centre of NATO's interests. The aggressive policies of China, which is considered the real challenger of the international order by the countries of the Alliance, will force things to concentrate efforts and burdens on the Asia-Pacific quadrant. These are challenges that, as NATO's founding country, we need to know and support. It is good to remember, however, that our strategic interests are mostly located in the so-called South front, in the enlarged Mediterranean basin. Asymmetric threats such as terrorism, political instability leading to crises and mass migration, the energy supply match: these elements are priorities for our foreign policy and must be our objective to bring back the focus of the Atlantic Alliance also towards the South front. In conclusion, Sweden and Finland have realised that there is no security outside a cohesive political-military organization like NATO and have knocked on our door. It's our duty. Open it to him. As our secretary, Matteo Salvini, stated, Italy's membership of the Atlantic Alliance is not in question and it is not a political crisis or a change of government that can question this reality. We belong proudly to the history and culture of the West, we can only be on the side of the free countries and we work to ensure that the future is a future of peace. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u82	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I must confess to you that some of today's speeches have, in my view, been characterised by opposing extremism. On the one hand, there are colleagues from the United Nations Constitutional Group, to whom I would like to remind you that in Finland and Sweden no one has imposed entry into NATO, but they have chosen freely and, probably, they have done so because Putin's Russia has attacked Ukraine. We supported, as Movimento 5 Stars, from the beginning, the resistance of the Ukrainian people [[Applause]] , but this does not mean that we can only get out of this conflict by sending weapons: we must light the light of diplomacy. We then heard other interventions: almost a sovereignism to clams, more realistic than the king. There has also been talk today of re-armament, but I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago an important exponent of Brothers of Italy wanted to allocate the capital used for income citizenship to buy more weapons. Go tell that to that million Italians who came out of the poverty line thanks to their citizenship income. [[Applause]] These are INPS data. The Italians need support at this difficult time, not an increase in armaments. Then I heard the intervention of the colleague of the League, but that political formation perhaps should clarify his relations with Putin, with Moscow, on those strange trips made to the Metropol hotel. Did Salvini know about Savoini or didn't know? This must be made clear for the national interest. On Forza Italia frankly I would not know what to say: Berlusconi was quoted, who claimed that Putin is the best President in the world. He went hand in hand with Putin, as he did with Gaddafi: he kissed his hands and soon sent the planes to Sigonella to bomb Libya. We must be serious and the 5-star Movimento is a serious and coherent political force. We belong to the Western sphere, to important organizations such as the Atlantic Pact, but we want to stand tall, not with the tail between the legs as do Italy Viva and other political parties. We will always be on our heads to pursue diplomacy and peace. [[Applause]] Therefore I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group on the bill under consideration and the advance also on the subsequent bill n. 2605. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u83	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u84	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2605, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Di Micco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u85	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the agreement signed by Italy and Canada between December 2020 and February 2021 on youth mobility, which, in the context of the progressive strengthening of bilateral relations between Italy and Canada, aims to improve opportunities for exchange and experience between the citizens of the two countries, creating opportunities for vocational training for young people facing the world of work. In particular, the new understanding includes two new categories of participants in the exchange program: young professionals, i.e. holders of a postgraduate degree, equivalent to the three-year degree, who want to acquire a working experience in the host country, and the one called international co-op, aimed at students who, in order to complete their post-secondary course, intend to carry out a curricular internship on subjects related to their course of study at a company operating in the host country. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u86	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Presidency takes note of what Senator Rizzotti said. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u89	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, in announcing the vote in favour, I ask that we be able to deliver the written text of the speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u90	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u93	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I would like to announce the PD Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u96	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting in favour and would ask that the written text of the speech be delivered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u97	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u100	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I preannounce the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u103	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I confirm the previous explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u104	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u105	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2597, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pinotti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u106	Mr President, the Senate Assembly is today called upon to examine an important bill and therefore I would ask the Members concerned to pay attention and perhaps speak a little less. I would immediately say that the measure was unanimously approved by the House and that the Defence Committee also concluded its examination by a unanimous vote on the mandate to the rapporteur. Before briefly explaining the content of the measure, allow me to make a premise. When we began the examination of the measure in the Defence Committee, we immediately realized that we had two choices: the first was to intervene on the text extending its scope and improving certain aspects; the second was not to approve amendments to prevent the second reading of the House, for a matter of time, from jeopardising approval in this legislature. The Defence Commission has decided to take this second path, I have to say very reluctantly, because we wanted to intervene and we had seen many points on which it might have been necessary to do so. The reason why we did this is because the leaders of our armed forces who have audited in the Commission have asked us to do so in a united manner. We have, in short, wanted to avoid, as we use to say, that the best was the enemy of good. This choice - I would like to say this - was shared by all the Groups, including the Colleagues of the Brothers of Italy who have responsibly decided to withdraw the amendments tabled. The political events of these weeks are comforting me and all my colleagues in the Commission that we have made the right choice: if we had introduced changes, in fact, we would not be here today, the measure would not be about to become a law and in the next parliamentary term we would have had to start all over again. Having decided not to intervene on the draft law, the Commission wanted, however, to leave a trace of its work, entrusting it to a very full agenda at the first signature of President Gasparri, who I imagine will then illustrate it, but signed by colleagues from all the Groups, which contains - as it were - a reminder, a working agenda on the issues of defence that we now pass to the next Parliament and the Government. Why was it so urgent to pass this law? Meanwhile because it is an important law for the Armed Forces and therefore an important law for the country, but there is one more reason, which derives from its specific content: the temporal factor is straight, because one of the most important aspects of the provision is to lengthen the time horizon within which to proceed the gradual reduction of the staff of the Armed Forces from 190,000 to 150,000 moving it from 1 January 2025 to 1 January 2034. Without a rapid approval of the law, therefore, the Armed Forces would have had to continue on a path of reduction of own organic according to the provisions of the current law, that is the law n. 244 of 2012, so-called law Di Paola. I would like to comment on this for a moment. The Di Paola law had been passed at a time of severe suffering of public finances, in a context of general reduction of the costs of public administrations, often unfortunately with the instrument of linear cuts. In this regard, allow me to open a parenthesis: no public administration has planned to make such a strong cut (from 190,000 to 150,000, 40,000 as far as the military, plus 10,000 as far as civilians are concerned) in order to meet these difficulties. I would like us to remember that, because sometimes a series of discussions take place on the expenses of the defence, but this is a sacrifice that this administration has made. The problem is that since 2012 the world has changed and unfortunately has not changed for the better from the point of view of safety and not only. There was a need to strengthen the security of our cities, from which the operation "Safe roads": remember the terrorist attacks in all the capitals of Europe, so we had to strengthen that operation very much. There was the Covid and we all remember the contribution of the Armed Forces in the fight against the pandemic and in the vaccination campaign. And then there are new tasks for the functions proper to the Armed Forces. From Syria to Libya, the Sahel, to the so-called enlarged Mediterranean: it's all an arc of crisis and instability at the doorstep. Then there are also hybrid threats, starting with that cyber, which requires new professionalism and the bill under consideration also deals with this. There is also a new command for space, which was not in the past. Finally, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, which is causing the loss of human lives and the destruction with which we have all been accustomed for too many months to live together and which has forced NATO which, as is well known, does not have its own armed forces, but must ask the Member States to strengthen its presence on the eastern and south-eastern front. Incidentally, the Defence Commission, together with the House's colleagues, carried out a brief mission in Costanza at the end of June to visit the Italian contingent, engaged with the Eurofighters in a very delicate operation of airspace control. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind the House that this year for the crisis of government the approval process has ended in the Commission, which is no coincidence that the resolutions of international missions provide for new missions and an increased commitment of military personnel, which reaches a maximum of more than 12,000 units. The global scenario is changing for the worse and you can't even see the time when we'll be able to reverse the course. The measure in question does not, however, concern only the postponement of the time limit for the reduction of staff. There are other points of great importance and I briefly mention only two of them. The first is recruitment reform. I do not go into the details of the technical aspects. All I'm saying is that the new system provides for an initial stop of three years and a second fixed stop of another three years. This means that, at the most after six years but generally already before, young people who choose to embark on a military career are sure to continue this path. On the one hand, therefore, the reform contrasts that situation of prolonged precariousness that unfortunately is present also in the military career; on the other, it ensures that the investment that the State makes, in the training and training of the staff, has its lasting feedback. The last aspect of the bill that I want to highlight is the delegation to the Government for the revision of the military instrument. I mention only three aspects: the redefinition of the distribution of organic equipment between the various Armed Forces, subject to the objective of 150,000 units; an organic increase of not more than 10,000 units of military personnel with high specialization (the doctors, laboratory technicians, engineers and computer scientists mentioned above) to counter the cyber threat, to meet the increased needs in the circumstances of public disasters and new threats; the establishment of an auxiliary reserve of not more than 10,000 units of voluntary personnel. I would like to end by thanking all my colleagues in the Commission for their work and for their sense of responsibility, always in a peaceful and constructive atmosphere, and of course also the Commission offices that have always stood by us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As you are not included in the general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u107	Mr President, I would like to stress what President Pinotti has already said about the importance of the measure and the sense of maturity that the Commission defends in the first instance and the Senate in this House today, by approving a very important measure. This is for our Armed Forces, for what today represents the model of Armed Forces, with an important emphasis, compared to an agenda that is not at all secondary, but becomes the main matter. The agenda for the first time signed by Gasparri, who found the sensitivity of other colleagues, as I said, is a viatico; it is not a reminder, it is more than that: it contains eleven binding commitments with respect to the action of the Government, drawing attention and sensitivity to the most different issues, from the increase from 10,000 to 20,000 units of the possibility of increasing the number of staff to the necessary reform of existing social security funds. The temporal factor, as has rightly been said, was straightforward. I would therefore like to thank the Defence Commission in the person of President Pinotti and the whole Senate for exalting this need and ensuring that the measure was approved before the end of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u108	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We note that Senator Ferrari votes in accordance with the Group. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which an agenda has been presented, and I would ask the authors to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u109	Mr President, since I will speak in an explanation of vote and this will also focus on the content of the agenda (which I believe the Government has accepted), I find it unnecessary to make a double intervention in order to promote the economy of work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u110	It gave us an anticipation, on which, however, I ask for a formal confirmation. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u111	Since this is an agenda which is widely shared and signed by many, I am in favour of accepting it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u112	The government welcomes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u113	Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u116	WOMAN (IPf-CD). Mr President, the draft law we are about to vote on today marks an important step in the management of our armed forces. The revision of the military instrument is a fundamental part of government action, even more so at a time like today, when new threats to national security emerge and ancient competitions rekindle in the global geopolitical scenario. In an extremely complex world like the contemporary one, the Armed Forces need to adapt and innovate their instruments to cope with the multiple threats that affect the security of the Republic. The war in Ukraine has put European and Western governments in front of a new challenge for the military instrument, forcing them to rethink the measures introduced previously to face the threat posed by the Russian Federation. The revision of Law No 244 of 2012 is therefore a choice dictated by today's circumstances, but also the necessary adaptation of the military model to the role that our Armed Forces play today. A common belief wants the defence sector to be the most recalcitrant to modernisation and innovation, but the legislative measures of recent years bear witness to the opposite, starting from the adoption of the code of the military order adopted by Legislative Decree no. 66 of 2010, which regulates the organization, functions and activity of the defence and military security of the Armed Forces. Today the Armed Forces guarantee national security by playing multiple roles, from internal security to international missions, to support in the event of natural disasters. You cannot forget the images of the many, too many territories upset by earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters in many parts of Italy in recent years and with them the heroic actions of support of our military personnel. It is inevitable, moreover, to mention the extraordinary contribution of women and men of Defense in the first dramatic months of the pandemic emergency, during which they played a fundamental role in assisting health workers, as well as in bringing back to safety in Italy the citizens blocked abroad in those first days of February 2020, mission in which he participated first, alongside our soldiers, our colleague Pierpaolo Sileri. The Armed Forces, therefore, no longer carry out only the ancient function of protection of national borders and interests through the military instrument, but also a prominent civil role: a factor, the latter, which makes the defence personnel always appreciated by the citizens, value which also finds confirmation outside the national borders thanks to the undisputed gifts of our girls and our boys in carrying out the commonly known actions of peacekeeping and peace enforcing. Hence the proposal to revise the model of the Armed Forces, the result of the synthesis of five different legislative proposals: a summary for which, Mr President, we should also thank here the work of our colleagues in the House, first and foremost the rapporteur, Mr Aresta. It is worth mentioning a number of key points that have been reached in this measure. In the first place, after a sharp and reasoned assessment of the numerical consistency of the defence personnel, even in the light of recent geopolitical upheavals, it was agreed on the shift, from 2024 to 2033, regarding the reduction of personnel. In addition, directives and principles of delegation to the Government for the internal reorganization of grades and for the possible recruitment of specialised technical personnel, a component of increasing importance for the functioning of our Armed Forces, have been established. The new measure also introduces new recruitment procedures and will make it possible to re-establish the standstill period for access to the permanent service from the current eleven years to six years, as well as to reduce the age limits for entry to initial careers. This will allow to modernize the model of defense with respect to the new requirements of national security, as well as to approach the needs of enlistment of Marina, Army, Aeronautica and Carabinieri to those of the young eager to serve the Homeland, allowing them also to acquire professional knowledge that will later be attractive on the labour market. Another aspect to consider is the valorization of the operational departments and their professionalism, on which the Government will be called to redefine the consistency of the staff. Each armed force, then, will be equipped with a determined staff based on the strategic objectives that the nation must pursue. Let me stress, Madam President, before I conclude my speech, that the measure we are going to vote on today is in a context that has changed completely since 24 February. The criminal invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation has upset Europe and imposes on us representatives the duty of responsibility and unity. The Europe of the free peoples is today united in condemning Russia and its President's actions, as demonstrated by the choice of Sweden and Finland to join NATO. Modernisation and reorganization of the armed forces, therefore, are not merely administrative action, but a fundamental step which requires seriousness and unity on the part of the institutions. What is at stake, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, is the security of the Republic, which is safeguarded every day by the valiant members of our armed forces, to whom all our thanks and gratitude go. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the future Democratic Centre. Finally, Mr President, allow me to thank all the members of the Defence Commission, who have demonstrated unity and compactness at all times, despite the diversity of political views. I would also like to thank President Pinotti for holding down, as they say, even in the difficult moments that have accompanied us in this parliamentary term. I would also like to thank, but not least, the members of the secretariat of the Defence Commission and Dr Petrangeli, who, with their expertise, accompanied us from the first to the last day of our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u119	Garavini (IV-PSI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first the pandemic and now the war are forcing us to change the policies pursued by our country, not only in the field of health and the environment, but also from the point of view of defence. The changed geopolitical scenario leads to the need to review choices that had already been taken, starting from the organic endowment of our Armed Forces, that were undergoing a reduction under the so-called law of Paola, with which it was expected to bring to 150,000 units the military personnel of the three Armed Forces and to 20,000 the civil personnel of the defense, reductions on which today we reverse the course. The Di Paola law dates back to 2012, a geopolitical era ago. At the time it could have its own ratio, because it tried to rationalise the costs of public administrations, even if at the price of linear cuts often not shared. Today, however, we are faced with the need to stop the progressive reduction of the staff of the Armed Forces, also in the light of the new commitments required in international missions, but also - alas - to deal with emergencies such as that of the pandemic, for example, a necessity on which all political forces converge. The text postpones to 2033 the deadline for achieving the maximum staff of military personnel and the measures taken respond to the need to reduce the average age of the military, to enhance skills and also to avoid forms of precariousness. Among other things, it is expected that there will be an organic increase in high-specialised military personnel (doctors, health professionals, engineers, transport logs, computer scientists, cybersecurity experts), all of which will serve to respond to public disaster needs or situations of extraordinary need. The world and society change; it is necessary that our military personnel go hand in hand with new needs, endowing themselves with professionalism and experts in the most sensitive fields, such as healthcare and digital. In conclusion, Mr President, this is a very important measure which aims to bring our armed forces into line with the current security needs and the new tasks assigned to the defence sector. For all these reasons and also because this is also a way of expressing gratitude to the women and men of our Armed Forces, and because we believe in the need to strengthen our defence sector in order to respond to the new global needs, I announce the support of my Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u122	RAUTI (FdI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we welcome the fact that the measure has been scheduled today in this House - I mention only the short title - to revise the model of Armed Forces, to delegate to the Government for the revision of the national military instrument. We welcome today's debate and - we hope - for the adoption of the measure. Above all, before this, I would like to express my satisfaction with the work carried out in the Chamber, before the Senate, in the Commission defended by the Brothers of Italy Group, which has already worked since the beginning of this legislature for an amendment of Law n. 244 of 2012. Our Group has worked across the board with the other political groups to arrive at a single text and the proposed amending law that we are discussing today. So there has been - and I stress this - a constructive climate in the Commissions both in the House and in the Senate around this important, fundamental provision. I would say that it was neither easy nor difficult; I would say that it was necessary and useful. For who and for what? Evidently for a common goal: the well-being of the military of our Armed Forces, a greater functionality of them and I would say a greater dignity and recognition of the value of the commitment of our Armed Forces. It is clear - I have no difficulty in saying this - that each of us has given up something: we ourselves have withdrawn a number of amendments and we have done so because we could not miss the opportunity to have the reform approved by the end of the parliamentary term. As far as the programme is concerned, we have also signed the agenda for the first time by Mr Gasparri, who is a bit of a shared agenda, which was then signed by all the parliamentary groups. This is because it is a fundamental reform that must affect, as already mentioned, Law 244 of 2012, which provided for a reduction of staff to create a professional model that in principle is of course acceptable, but then there is reality, there are the effects of application, there is life in barracks. Whoever visited us or who, like me, has also served us, knows what life is in barracks, that is the daily life of those who wear a uniform. It is evident to all those who have been interested in it that the negative effects of Law No 244 were already seen; they were seen in the meantime in a saving that has not been, but above all in the ageing of the staff, and in an operation limited by the constraints that it was pushing against an increasing capacity, specialization and formation of our armed forces operating both in the homeland and abroad. On this I open a small parenthesis, because also at international level, colleagues, where we gain attention and appreciation of everyone for how we work in our peace missions and in international civil and military cooperation missions, only in the current year we have 44 international missions and 7.598 committed units. So how do we, how do we think we can achieve a cutting of staff, even if it is progressive, in the face of growing needs, in the face of growing international commitments, in the face of emergencies? It is not possible to remove resources and reduce staff. I think that no sector could ever bear a reduction of 40,000 people; in fact, it was expected to increase from 190,000 to 150,000 people, in addition to the cutting of civilians. I repeat: no sector could bear a staff cut of 40,000 units, at the same time responding to every need, every service, every growing emergency (I stress), up to the pandemic from Covid. The ageing of staff and the shortage of staff call for action. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, we are now removing a noose from the necks of our armed forces, because that is what I call Law 244. It is clear, however, that this is only a step and a starting point. We must continue to deal with the armed forces, we must continue to take seriously the issues of defence and security, which are crucial and central to geopolitics and national interests. My colleague Mr Urso, in his previous explanation of vote, also stressed and articulated what it means today to be committed to international security and international peace. It is not only a question of deterrence, but also an important one: it is a strategic and military policy, it is stability to be guaranteed at international level, while the threat to collective security is spreading and traditional threats are added to those of the hybrid war. To the classic domains of land, air and sea are added the new, brand new ones, of cyber, of space, of the technological challenge. It really is a universe to be faced with, for which we must be equipped. As my colleague Mr Urso reminded me - I say this to those who have had some second thoughts, I do not want to make controversy today, but memory is memory - we must respect the international commitments made and allocate 2% of GDP to military defence expenditure. When we remembered it, we created a backlash in the outgoing majority. But we must be consistent: we cannot think of cutting resources or not achieving goals and then demanding the maximum from our Armed Forces. Let's get back to the topic. Our armed forces are heritage, institution, symbol, value and operational reality, at home and internationally, guaranteeing peace and security. Why is this reform important? I just want to point out a ride. This reform says enough to the military precariousness. It introduces the system of the stop of the volunteers in fixed stop: during the first service of three years you will be able to access with a contest to the next fixed stop of three years, with a transit in permanent service. This means finally declaring war on the precarious, it means improving the conditions of economic treatment and the legal status of the person who dresses the uniform. Enough with the insecurity in the Armed Forces. When the precarious becomes stable and becomes indefinitely, it means that something has not gone and is not going. I'm gonna finish. Today Parliament is reappropriating its role and function (I mean, because it is important). We have also reached this agreement for a superior and common objective, in the name of the military forces, of the armed forces of the country. We have done this for a higher objective, for a higher common interest and for a national interest that we call homeland. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u125	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of this draft law and I also say this in spite of those who, when asked to be able to put it on the agenda at the final stage of the legislature, in response to the request to be able to verify it and deepen it, immediately shouted at the scandal, thinking that we did not want to examine the measure. The measure has basically only a few aims, the first of which is to call into question the cut established during the Monti Government, which should have occurred by 2024, in order to reach a reduction of the Armed Forces up to 150,000 units. It is therefore postponed by ten years the cut, which is now fixed to 2024, to reach 2034. Clearly, the philosophy that led then to the decision of that cut was very linked to a situation that saw reductions and cuts in many sectors. Many things have changed in the meantime and it is therefore absolutely reasonable to postpone the cut that had been planned. The draft law also intervenes with a series of amendments, both for the remodulation of the organic endowments of the petty officers, and for the issues of the legal status, recruitment and employment of volunteers. The other interesting element is that it contains a delegation to produce one or more legislative decrees, for the general revision of the national military instrument, with precise objectives and criteria laid down in the draft law under consideration. What I would like to stress is the forecast of the increase in staff, always for 10,000 units, for a series of professionalism of the highest specialization, which can also be very useful for peace tasks and for their use in case there are unfortunately natural disasters, as happened. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to increase this high level of specialisation. I take this opportunity to say that about two years ago we had indicated, for the protection of the territory, the possibility of using military genius for example for the demolition of abusive works. Alas, although that rule was passed, there was never the possibility of seeing it used. I quote this example to say that in civil tasks of great help for the country, both for environmental protection and in the case of emergencies and natural disasters, such as those that have unfortunately occurred in all these years, it is clear that it is also necessary to have the ability to include skills of very high specialization. I am also thinking of the health professions, an issue to which the bill in question devotes a particular intervention, but also to the revision of the organizational and ordering structure of the military health service. In fact, at this time when, among other things, we continue to experience a strong shortage of doctors, especially in some specializations, it may be interesting to foresee the integration and therefore a revision of the military health service and the possibility that even military doctors can carry out intra-mural activities on the basis of certain specialist conventions. Other issues always concern the training of volunteers in a fixed three-year stop, moreover it is expected that the auxiliary reserve will not exceed 10,000 units. There are, therefore, a number of interventions. I say frankly that I am not among those who hailed as a great reform the transition from the military to the professional army, because with all honesty I thought then that was not exactly the spirit of adherence to the Constitution. Many years have passed, today in all fields they serve very high specializations, but in announcing the favorable vote, I remain always convinced that the investment in the Armed Forces and the army must always be aimed at tasks of peace and not of war. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u128	VATTUONE (PD). Mr President, the Senate is about to approve the measure on the agenda after a highly compressed examination, of which President Pinotti has explained well the reasons; nevertheless it is a measure of undoubted importance that certainly concerns, but not only, the specific military matter, but also the national interest of our country. This is because security and defence policies have already taken on today and will have even more central importance in the near future. When the process of the measure under consideration began in the House, we were in a different international scenario, we can even say in another historical era; however, the reasons behind this text were already strong and constantly indicated to Parliament by the Minister and by the leaders of our Defense during the illustration of the policy lines made before the Defense Commissions of the House and the Senate. His reasons arise from the need to ensure greater efficiency and operational capacity for our military instrument, intervening on the Di Paola law, the famous law n. 244 of 2012, today no longer adequate, as has been said from several quarters, and on the recruitment model. Today those reasons are even stronger and the adoption of this bill meets with the concerns and deep implications and consequences of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, as other colleagues and President Pinotti have already said in the report. The contents of the bill have already been comprehensively outlined in the report and I do not repeat them; I stress only an element of novelty introduced by the provision, that is the delegation under which the Government is authorized to introduce an increase in staff of 10,000 units, beyond the auxiliary reserve. They are therefore personnel intended to intervene on national emergencies or in international crises. It is a very important measure, even if - we have already said so - non-solving, which extends the functions of the armed forces at the service of the country. We have always asked our armed forces a lot: from the traditional institutional tasks of defence of the country and international stability, to the competition for civil protection activities. We have added more to these commitments: support for the control of the territory with the Safe Roads operation, until we reach the fundamental help in the fight against the pandemic. Now the Russian aggression against Ukraine has changed the global balance, bringing us into a more conflicting world and determining a repositioning of some of our contingents in line with the other countries of the Atlantic Alliance. We know that the tensions in our immediate neighbourhood (the enlarged Mediterranean area) will intensify. In the coming years, our armed forces will be asked for greater capacity and flexibility in the joint effort of the democratic countries to manage crises and tensions in our traditional areas: the European Union, NATO, which has been mentioned before, and the UN, whose voice is weakened, but cannot be neglected. It is precisely these challenges and commitments that mark our horizon that call for a contribution to reproduce the correctives and innovations functional to the full operation of our military instrument. It's a due act for everything the armed forces do in our country. We therefore wish, in this sentence too, to thank them wholeheartedly. These are the reasons why the PD is voting in favour of the measure today, with the conviction of bringing merit, efficiency and modernity to our defence model. I also conclude with some thanks and appreciation, first of all to Minister Guerini, who guided the Ministry of Defence with skill, competence and balance at a difficult and complicated time for the security of our country. My thanks also go to President Pinotti for having wisely guided the Defence Commission, as well as to all its members, with whom we have had some heated debates, but also a fruitful collaboration that has led to results like this, in the awareness of all that the issue of security and defence must be cultivated with care and balance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u131	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. As has been explained by all colleagues, this is a measure that somehow corrects what had been a bit of an illusion, since the defence model provided for a contraction of the staff of our Armed Forces. Now with the introduction of professional volunteers and increasingly advanced technologies, there is no doubt that the concept of defence and the idea of the military world have changed profoundly. However, in the Ukraine affair, which is still in progress, besides - alas - the missiles of the Russian aggression that bomb the country, we have seen trenches and scenes of war that seemed drawn from the memory of the past. This means that beyond technology, aerial systems and drones (in recent days we have had an example of very advanced technology by the United States with the story of al-Zawahiri), women and men in uniform are needed. This measure intervenes on a whole series of technicalities - enlistments, voluntary firm - but in substance, as many have remembered, it postpones and removes an objective of ulterior contraction of the Armed Forces in the numbers and indeed gives rise to an increase of 10,000 units. We could have, in a thorough examination that we have also done in the Commission, with many hearings, enriched this measure because it is required by Italy's international responsibilities, as the case of Ukraine shows where there is no direct military presence, with the employment of personnel, but we all know that international missions continue and multiply and there are also international missions at the borders of Europe. There is basically a need for presence. Who thought that the military instrument was obsolete or destined to the archive, unfortunately had to take note that it is necessary, and that - we too today want to reiterate it as Forza Italia Group - if there were no armed forces, many needs of protection of our nation in the field of civil protection and health emergency could not be met. [[Applause]] One of the political hubs of these years of transition from one Government to another of crisis, was precisely that of the transition from the Government Count to the Government Dragons: our Group, Forza Italia, presented itself to the consultations not with the list of Ministers, but with the plan of vaccinations and therefore by Forza Italia were better proposals related to vaccinations than the proposals of Ministers, but on this we overlook. Then we asked for 500,000 vaccinations a day. Would this have been possible without the logistic organization of the Italian Armed Forces? It wouldn't have been possible. [[Applause]] Years ago the Minister of Defence Corcione, who had also been Chief of Staff, recalled, speaking of the military missions of international peace, that the Italian military in the world worked more with the ladle than with the gun. It was not self-denigration, but it was a description of humanitarian missions that often helped and fed populations, children and families in poverty. This also serves to prevent hatred, war and terrorism. Our armed forces, in military missions, also deal with the training of police forces, have done interventions in risk situations, I think of Afghanistan and other scenarios, I think of the fallen we had in Iraq and elsewhere. The armed forces are indispensable from an internal, external, civil and military point of view. [[Applause]] I also say civil, which may seem a contradiction in terms, thinking about Civil Protection, which has many volunteers and many structures, often even former members of the Armed Forces. We discussed the Alps a long time ago and there were those who were favorable and who were not favorable about some initiatives, but the world of the National Alpine Association, like many other Armed Forces, when there are emergencies, next to the military in service, stands out. We will vote in favour of consistent support for the armed forces, which does not mean wanting wars or eviction, because even in the Ukrainian affair we hope that sooner or later someone will take the ban of the skein and succeed in bringing the two countries to a peace table. We are concerned that there is no proper leadership in the West and we see if anything Erdogan or the leader of Iran or others gathering to talk about Ukrainian wheat and other issues. The contents of the measure have been explained and we share them. We would have wanted to increase them from the point of view of numbers, organics and recognitions of various kinds. We agreed in the Commission that it could not be done because there was an urgency, we did not expect the early dissolution of the legislature, but we took refuge by deciding to approve it as it was. That is how the agenda came into being, and I have taken great care to draw up and thank my colleagues from practically all the groups for signing it. First, the rapporteur, Mrs Pinotti - whom I thank - mentioned this; I do not explain it because we are in the process of explanation of vote, but I want to refer, in addition to the things that the law says and which we approve of, to the defence agenda, as President Pinotti called it, which we discussed in the Commission. There have obviously been opportunities for confrontation and consensus has been essentially unanimous because it is an agenda that we entrust, Undersecretary Mulè, to the Government, which is a permanent body of the nation. There's a government. There will be a government. The government is there and the armed forces are there and they will be there. We are talking about fundamental institutions, on which it is good that there is a convergence of consensus in Parliament too, because these are the things that matter: international missions, organic missions and investments. Undersecretary Mulè, I would like to remind you, in summary, that the future agenda states that, for example, staff should be further increased by 10,000 more units, because the Armed Forces also make a contribution to security. In the future we want to restore the policeman and the neighborhood policeman, but the Safe Roads operation, operated by military forces of the Army and other Armed Forces, has been useful as a form of deterrent and as presences and is still ongoing in many cities. We need another 10,000 units in order to get to 170,000. This is a necessity, such as the need to safeguard advanced technological skills. We need to expand the start of enlistments with the voluntary halt, because we also have a problem with the average age of the Armed Forces. The contribution of new generations will help to have a staff with a lower average age, because it does not escape anyone that experience serves in these fields, but then also needs energy. So putting young people next to experts is important. With this agenda, therefore, we believe that we should stress the things that must be done. For example, those who lose eligibility must be excluded from the calculation of the staff and from the suitability for service. Otherwise, when you ask how many sailors or army members are in service, in fact many of them, for physiological reasons, do not perform active service and work in civil ranks. They don't have to lose their jobs, that's clear. They will perform other tasks, but are no longer suitable for that type of service, which requires absolute physical integrity. Let us, however, remove them from the calculation of military bodies. They go to civil affairs and restore the staff, otherwise, it turns out that there are a certain number of people in the workforce, when in reality some are not there, because they cannot carry out certain services. We therefore need to look at some concrete aspects of the staff situation. On the agenda we agreed to include the reference to a recent resolution by the Cocer. The military trade union associations are coming, but in the meantime there are still the Cocer, who have referred to some events, such as the initiatives for the compensation of overtime, which must be verified and updated. I was quoting safe roads that, like other operations, require adequate appropriations. We need a negotiating table on social security. In this year's law of stability, money has been set aside for supplementary pensions, but we have not yet used them because we needed a law. With President Pinotti and other colleagues, with the same spirit in which we have all signed the agenda of which I am the first signatory, we have signed the bill, of which President Pinotti is the first signatory, on the issues of social security. It's in the diary. There are appropriations: they are partial, they are not sufficient. However, we must start the issue of supplementary insurance for the security and defence sector, because it is a fundamental social need, in order to prevent people starting work today from retiring tomorrow with four euros. And what should they do? After 30 years and more of service, should they look for a job? [[Applause]] It is a concrete theme, on the agenda. There is in the current law of stability and there will be in the future. Then there are the problems of the ancillary treatment of the management staff; there is the theme of the reform of the social security funds, also for the role of the graduates; there are other concrete issues. Under-Secretary Mulè, you, both in the Commission and in the House, approve this agenda, which many have mentioned and thank you for, enriches the approval of this bill with these commitments, which are not an electoral manifesto, but a commitment of Parliament and the Government. Governments change, parliaments change, but these are the institutions and, as the inscriptions on the walls remind us, they last beyond contingency, beyond people. Today's vote, therefore, is a vote of approval for this law, it is a vote of support for the Armed Forces, but it is a way to foresee further increases in resources and respect those appropriations that Italy has signed up to. There are appropriations that need to be increased and international commitments to be respected. This is a vote in favour of the Armed Forces of the present, the Armed Forces of the future and also a further opportunity to thank the entire people in uniform of the security and defence sector. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u134	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to greet you and all my fellow Members. First of all, when talking about Armed Forces, the first thought is the expression of gratitude to what women and men in uniform are doing for the country, to what they have done and to everything they will do. That's my first thought. [[Applause]] With regard to the measure under consideration, I think of the first mission of the armed forces: the protection of the life and freedom of citizens within the borders of the nation. We had a very recent example of this: the engagement of the armed forces during the pandemic, not only for the function of public order, but above all for the support of military health to civil health at that time - especially in 2020 - of great fear and great uncertainty for the whole country and for all our fellow citizens. It is no coincidence that Article 9 of the measure explicitly mentions a strengthening of military health personnel. The need for this measure, as already mentioned by the President, derives from a law, n. 244 of 2012, which was inserted in a context, austerity and linear cuts, which did not only damage the armed forces, but also to health. If in 2020 Italy faced the health emergency I do not say with difficulty but certainly with great effort, with an Italian health care fatigued, this is due to the legacy of reckless linear cuts, required by a mentality of economic policy that I personally did not share then and I still do not share. The law of parliamentary initiative is coming, and I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Ferrari, one of the first signatories to the Chamber of Deputies, for this, and I would like to thank Parliament, not only our Commission and the President, but the whole Parliament in its two Chambers, because I would like to remind you that this measure is coming from Parliament. It comes from Parliament because it is a necessity of the country to strengthen the instrument of defence. I will not repeat what many colleagues have said very well, but I would like to remind everyone of the need to think of the Armed Forces as an investment to avoid future losses, just like for health: they are investments that are made to protect our citizens. On the other hand, considering the chronicle and the historical period that we are living in, I think that this is clear even to the most closed-minded people, let's say, on this front. Clearly, I advance the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group - Partito Sardo d'Azione on this measure and take the opportunity to thank all the members of the Defence Commission, President Donatella Tesei, Laura Garavini, Daniela Donno and our current President Roberta Pinotti, because if we worked in harmony, as already mentioned in some intervention, this did not rain from heaven, but it depended on the sensitivity of those who led the Commission, from our Donatella Tesei to Senator Pinotti, and also on the sensitivity of those who were members of it. It was a very interesting experience for me too, Vice President at the first legislature. I hope a vote in favour and convinced of this measure; it is in the interest of the country and is only the starting point. The next item is the G9.1, first by Senator Gasparri, who also bears my signature, has already been presented and is a perspective. We do not stop at this, we invite the Government to be guardian of this measure and the next Parliament to improve the situation and invest - I repeat - in the armed forces as a means of protecting our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u135	Senator Candura, I think you've made an intervention in the spirit of appreciated national unity.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u138	FAITH (M5S). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and all my colleagues. Today we are in this House for a measure that the entire defence sector has been waiting for years. It is important that politics and Parliament give the right answers and on this - I would like to say this - the Movimento 5 Stars played a leading role, promoting this text at the first signature of our Member, Mr Antonio Del Monaco, throughout his legislative process. I repeat this because it is important for us to support parliamentary activity, including defence. I do not hide that on this issue often on the news and also in this House it has been acted upon and discussed in a controversial way, but it is right to point out that our contribution has been, as in all the measures, also on a topic such as defence, of which we have been protagonists like other colleagues. Thank you, because I have to admit that it was a choral work that saw all the united forces. This is an important measure, with which we are finally going to revise Law n. 244 of 2012, the so-called Di Paola law, which - I remember this too and then I will repeat - has been passed by the Monti Government: a law that has profoundly affected the financing and the functioning of the organization of the Armed Forces and has reduced the size of the military instrument that we are going to revise today. A law that seems to us outdated by the reality of the facts that requires, on the contrary, to invest in a truly expendable instrument in extremely sophisticated and highly military-contrast contexts, which the pandemic from Covid-19 has made much more likely. The gradual decrease in staff at this stage is a mistake. It is in fact making it increasingly difficult to carry out the new tasks to which our Armed Forces are called. Therefore, our commitment must be in this direction. To understand the importance of the measure we must start from a premise: defence is not only synonymous with more weapons. Our position is clear and fits within the constitutional framework, where Article 11 reminds us all that Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense, but clearly defence is a fundamental instrument. These things do not conflict; indeed, we support them with real awareness. We believe that our armed forces play a decisive role in our national and international security. I take this opportunity to express all the support and my personal thanks and the Movimento 5 Stars for the daily work done with dedication, always in the interest of the country and citizens, by people in uniform. At the same time, like Movimento 5 Stars, we have repeatedly stressed the need to reverse the modus operandi in Ukraine, where the solution does not go through the continuous and progressive sending of weapons. Again and again in this House, we have called for a military de-escalation because now more than ever we need political and diplomatic initiatives aimed at reaching an immediate ceasefire and this must be the combined work of diplomatic action and defensive action, both essential. [[Applause]] Peace is not built with weapons: this is a fundamental premise. More defense means no more weapons. Our military instrument is made up of thousands of men and women who we cannot leave alone today. With the explosion of the emergency from Covid-19 the Armed Forces have played a fundamental role of support and closeness to the population at one of the toughest moments in our Republic that we have managed. I also take this opportunity to thank President Conte who has always managed this moment with wisdom and has been able to involve our Armed Forces, aware of their role and their function. All citizens and Italians must be grateful for this. [[Applause]] We must remember the images of the military trucks that took away the coffins, those of the field hospitals mounted next to the structures of a health care destroyed by those who health care, like the defense, has worn out over many years. Our armed men have been fundamental, making themselves available to make swabs for citizens, to distribute safety devices, to sanitize environments. Not only that: we remember the role of the Armed Forces in natural disasters. I come from a territory hit by the earthquake, I remember what they did for the removal of the rubble thanks to the army genius, or what they did in the floods, for safe roads missions or for cybersecurity. The Armed Forces are a fundamental element and we will certainly not be the ones to say otherwise. All this is accompanied by the military personnel supporting the National Civil Protection, with means and structures, and that supporting our National Health Service. That's why as Movimento 5 Stars we have demanded more funds for military health. We also think about the importance of safe roads. Just to reiterate a correct approach to this topic, I want to tell a small part of my story. As a military soldier, I had the honour - I am proud to say so - to be part of a special force, of the St Mark's Battalion, and to participate in an international mission, the first Italian abroad. I have been six months in Lebanon and I remember well how we armed men, in that case on my first mission, have given fundamental support to protect people and to treat civilians and children. Our field hospital was proud of the works that the Armed Forces did in Lebanon. We shredded a turf. This is therefore the function of the Italian Armed Forces: they are peacemakers in uniform and we give them our support. [[Applause]] Coming out of personal affairs, I come back to the subject. For the technological capacity and the knowledge of Defense, as well as for its national industries, the PNRR is not an empty signature: the funds of Counts taken in Europe represent a great opportunity and must be oriented, not only to the tasks entrusted to it by the Constitution, but also to make the world in which we live not poisoned and cleaner. I am reminded, for example, of the great commitment to the defence of the sea, which can be seen as the protagonist, both the Navy and the Coast Guard, in the fight against those who use the sea as a landfill. With this bill, Parliament has regained its role by reforming the part of existing legislation that is no longer adapted to the contemporary needs of our armed forces. We have done this by understanding that the new tasks entrusted to the armed forces (contrast to the pandemic, new security threats, increasing commitments in international theatres, just to name a few) required Parliament to initiate those changes that could make our defence system more modern, more effective and more able to respond to the needs of the community. Today in this Chamber we are going to amend a law of 2012 issued by the Monti Government. Maybe it says something to the Italians. It is the years - we are talking about ten years ago - of austerity and draconian cuts to welfare; these are the years of Fornero's tears. Here today I have heard many people thankfully chanting this change and this reversal, although I must say with regret, but without controversy, that some are precisely those who have made these cuts that we are going to correct today and we are going to settle and improve the mistakes of the past [[Applause]] , because this is our mission and it is what we have always done, without hypocrisies and without controversy, but with realism and awareness. The measures we are going to adopt today go against the policy of tears and blood of technical governments, which often have no heart to reason well and correctly with regard to certain issues. With specific regard to the defence sector, I remember how it was touched by the care of flexibility and the downsizing of staff: these are the years of precariousness, we call things with our own name. Well, now we are able to intervene in this matter: that is enough with the precariousness also in the Defense, consistent with what we have done in other fields too. The present measure aims to modify the recruitment, lowering, if not even eliminating the precariousness in the Armed Forces, in addition to lengthening the term of the reduction imposed by the law Di Paola moving it from 2024 to 2034. In this way, a new system of detention of the armed forces' volunteers, aimed mainly at reducing the so-called precariousness of the most deserving volunteers and at making military progression more active in early careers, with improvements in economic treatment and legal status, greater possibility of training and specialization. Like Movimento 5 Stars we have fought to obtain the calendarization of this measure that puts an end to a long-standing issue. We are those of the decree of dignity, of the minimum wage, of the protection of the income of citizenship: we could not afford to leave our military personnel behind. We are proud to have completed this law, demonstrating our support for the defence sector, which I thank. By this I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars on the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u139	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u140	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2682 and 2683. The speakers, Senator Faggi and Senator Fantetti, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 2682, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the general state statement is the accounting document through which the Government reports to Parliament on the results of budgetary management. In accordance with Articles 35 and 36 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, the statement, articulated for missions and programmes, consists of two parts: the balance sheet account, which sets out the results of the management, i.e. the actual amount of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget compared to the forecasts approved by Parliament, and the general account of the assets, which shows the changes in the size of the assets and liabilities constituting the assets of the State. A supplementary note shall be attached to the statement of accounts for each administration. For revenue, the additional note sets out the results of the management. The analysis of the content of the draft law shows that the management of competence achieved in 2021 a general improvement in all balances compared to the financial year 2020. In particular, the net balance to be financed, i.e. the difference between final revenue and final expenditure, has a negative value of around 187.7 billion in 2021, an improvement of more than 83.2 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2020. Compared with the initial forecasts, which indicated a negative value of the net balance of less than 193,5 billion, the improvement was approximately 5.8 billion. Public savings, i.e. the balance of current transactions, which, if positive, measures the share of current market resources in the financing of capital expenditure, amounted to less 64.9 billion in 2021, an improvement of 40.5 billion compared to 2020. This result is determined by an increase in both current expenditure (plus 22.5 billion) and tax and extra-tributary revenue (plus 63 billion). The improvement is over 20.6 billion, compared with the initial forecasts. Finally, the figure of the use of the financial market, i.e. the difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure including those relating to the repayment of loans, was less 424.4 billion in 2021, showing an improvement of 82.5 billion compared to 2020 and more than 56.3 billion compared to the initial forecasts. Overall, despite the continuation of the emergency by Covid-19, the results achieved with the 2021 management show an improvement for all the balances both with respect to the initial forecasts, and with respect to the definitive forecasts, including the deviations authorized by the Parliament. The maximum limits set for the net balance to be financed and for the use of the market by the budget law for the financial year 2021, which had been indicated respectively in less € 196 billion for the net balance to be financed and in less € 483,235 billion for the use of the market, were updated during the financial year by the emergency measures adopted to deal with the consequences of the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. (17.35) (Following Mr Faggi, rapporteur on draft law No 2682). Overall, the budgetary deviation proposed by the Government to the Chambers and approved by them on 20 January 2021 with specific resolutions has re-established the maximum limits of the net balance to be financed and of the recourse to the market, bringing them respectively to less 286 and less 573,235 billion euros, in terms of competence. [[Brusio.]] Mr. President, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u142	Would you like to close? Mr Faggi, rapporteur on draft law No 2682. No, ma'am, I don't want to finish. I wish I could go on, but I'm struggling because there's a strong buzz. I understand they're just numbers, but they're about 400 billion. However, these maximum values have been respected by the results of financial management 2021, which show, for both balances, a significant improvement compared to the final forecasts, including the deviations authorised by Parliament. In the explanatory report, however, it is stressed that for 2021, unlike what happened for 2020, the final balances of competence and cash have also respected the policy limits originally set by the law. In the report submitted to the attention of our rapporteurs, in the final part, there is a very important element, which I bring to the attention of the Senate and which concerns the Court of Auditors, which has proceeded to verify the amount of the final residues. For 2021, as in previous years, this amount was different from that resulting from the calculation made, subtracting the remaining payments from the initial residues and adding the amounts to be paid and to be collected. As a result of the checks carried out, the Court of Auditors excluded certain chapters from the statement of regularity of the decision taken in the revenue-level equalisation judgment, in which there were discrepancies between the data presented in the budget account of the accounts and those reported in the periodic accounts of the administrations. If my colleagues then want to look (also because someone in the election campaign might ask why these deviations were made), I would like to point out this document, which is the dossier on the accounts and settlement, containing on page 48 the Court's findings, both on the revenue side (which also extended to the verification of data relating to the collection of residual accounts), and on the regularity of expenditure. The results of the checks, as regards expenditure, have been declared as the chapters excluded from the declaration of regularity. The Court of Auditors has also highlighted one important element: in 2021 the State has not yet adapted to the rules of drafting for the account of assets, laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013, for which it continues to apply the provisions of 25 June 1996. The Court of Auditors also formally found uncertainty and incompleteness of the values of immovable property, in view of the discrepancy between the data held by the territorial account of the State and those provided by the branches of the State Agency; uncertainty and incompleteness of the data and the consistency of changes in real estate classified as civil buildings used for institutional purposes, government use and barracks, as well as works under construction, works of extraordinary maintenance, railway roads and related operating materials and other works of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility; failure to register non-financial activities and permanent works intended for national defence; failure to update the value of the movable property of different Dicasteries (Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility, Ministry of Culture), due to differences between the resulting competences of the central offices and the financial units; consistency of the residual and passive provisions such as the consequences of irregularities established in the present judgment; non-enrollment of the company; non-indictment of the final statement in the final judgment; non-indication of the final statement in respect to the final judgment; non-indict, in respect of the final statement of the final statement to the final statement to the statement of the statement to the statement of the accounts, as to the accounts, as to the general account, as to the general account with regard to the general account, as to the accounts, as to the general account with regard to the general account of the general account of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the accounts, as to the accounts, as to the accounts, as to the state of the state of the state of the accounts, as to the accounts, as to the accounts, as to the general account of the accounts of the accounts of the state, as to the accounts and the accounts and incomplete and incomplete and incomplete and incompleteness of the accounts, as to the accounts, has been made by the accounts of the accounts of the accounts, has been made by the accounts, in respect of the accounts of the accounts of the accounts, in respect of the accounts, in respect of the accounts, in relation to the accounts, in relation to the accounts of the accounts, in relation to the accounts and incomplete and incomplete, in relation to the accounts of the accounts, in respect of the accounts of the accounts of the accounts For these critical issues, the supervisory body was obliged to declare the formal non-regularity of the accounting statues entered in the assets account, relating to posts relating to immovable property assigned to the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Economic Development and others, to posts relating to permanent works and posts relating to the active and passive residues of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. However, the Court has found a marked improvement compared to the criticalities found in previous years, but it has recalled the Government and the bodies responsible to try to abide by what for more than twenty years has continued to emphasize in the decisions of equalization. I wanted to say this, because the account is not only made up of the three pages prepared by the offices, but also consists of a series of annexes, which are fundamental, to make those who read the tables understand why there is a disagreement and what are the posts that generate it. We work with a 1996 legislation, as we said today with the Undersecretary Sartore, whom I warmly thank for all the work and assistance he has provided over these long months. Obviously it is not your job, but it is the task of those who have to implement this legislation, so that the state accounts are updated to the Italian and European rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u143	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u144	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2683, Senator Fantetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u145	Mr President, how much time do I have? I ask that because the report is rather long and very detailed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u146	You have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u147	If you wish, you can summarize it and then you can submit the full text of your speech, so that it can be published in the annex to today's Minutes. FANTETTI, rapporteur on draft law No 2683. Thank you, Mr President. The bill of settlement, governed by Article 33 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, aims to update in the middle of the year the budgetary forecasts formulated to current legislation. As regards the content, it consists of a single article, which amends Section II of the Budget Act. On the basis of the analysis of the financial results, the proposed budgetary changes define the forecast adjusted for 2022. In terms of competence, the proposed changes with the settlement bill result in an improvement of the net balance to be financed compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law. The balance stands at a value of -162.5 billion euros, compared to an initial forecast of -201.7 billion euros. The improvement of more than 39 billion euros of the net balance to be financed is due to 41 billion euros to the changes proposed by the draft law under consideration, partly offset by the negative changes determined by administrative act, for a value of -1,8 billion euros. As indicated in the technical report accompanying the draft law, the proposals made are neutral for the purposes of public administration's net debt, as they are already discounted in the trend frameworks at DEF 2022. The other balances also show a positive trend. Public savings improved by €37.9 billion compared to the initial forecast. With regard to variations by administrative act, these determine a worsening of the net balance of 1.8 billion euros in terms of competence and the result is determined mainly by the implementation of the two decree-laws mentioned above: Decree-Law No 4 and Decree-Law No 14 of 2022. In the explanatory report it is expressly stated that the draft law does not affect the effects of the two aforementioned decree-laws, for which Parliament authorised the use of debt, as these legislative measures were adopted on a date not useful for the inclusion of these measures in the administration and implementation of the budget. With regard to revenue, changes by administrative act lead to an increase in initial budgetary forecasts of a total of 10.5 billion. With regard to expenditure, the changes lead to an increase in final budgetary appropriations of 12.4 billion, including 10.8 billion in current expenditure and about 1.6 million in capital expenditure. Finally, with regard to final revenue, the draft law proposes an increase of 38.8 billion compared to the forecasts made under the budget law. Tax revenues mainly reflect the adjustment to the DEF estimates, with an increase of EUR 25.7 billion for competence. Colleagues, in the course of the examination by the Chamber of Deputies an amendment of the Government was approved that transposes for the year 2022 the increase in tax revenues of 19,863 million in terms of competence and 20,620 million in terms of cash. The increase reflects the payments recorded in the first six months of 2022 and the first data on the F24 payments in July. In conclusion, the Government also points out that the net effect on the net debt of general government is 11.1 billion, resulting from higher revenues of 12.1 billion compared to the forecasts of the income account incorporated in the DEF and higher expenses of one billion for the additional financing of the National Health Fund. The government therefore reported further improvements compared to the DEF of 3.2 billion. The overall improvement effect in terms of net debt of the public administration amounts to 14.3 billion, which corresponds to the effect of the resolution adopted by the Chambers by an absolute majority, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 on 28 July, following the presentation of the relevant report to Parliament. For further details, please refer to the dossier of the Budget Service and the Studies Service of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, which I take the opportunity to thank for the excellent support that has always provided to us Commissioners. I also thank all the offices of the Senate of the Republic, in particular those of the 5th Commission. Last but not least, I would like to thank the Government, in particular Mrs Sartore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u148	As you are not included in the joint general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u149	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senate Budget Commission, all its members and its President, who also performed a miracle today. We fired the bill of account and settlement at the end of the morning and today the Senate is preparing to approve them. I can only recall the importance of this document, especially with reference to what the rapporteur has also said about the settlement, which contains the 14.3 billion which will be the subject of the so-called aid-a decree-law that will be adopted tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. This provision was therefore to be approved in any case prior to the issuing of the aforementioned decree-law. I thank the Commission and the Senate again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u150	I would like to say that once the articles of the accounts have been examined, they will go directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system. We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles of draft law No 2682, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Article 5, with the annexes Nos. 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the examination of the articles of the statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u153	PRESUTTO (IPf-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to make an explanation of vote on technical measures which demonstrate, through a series of numerical data, the condition of a state. In the specific case, the data reported show the economic development of our country, which has been faced with the emergency Covid before, and the war in Ukraine after, with the heavy consequences for the internal economy that we all know, first of all the heavy energy crisis in progress. The years just passed have been marked by the adoption of a series of emergency measures aimed at mitigating, as far as possible, the effects of an unprecedented condition. It has been and is therefore an extraordinary situation, dealt with with with extraordinary instruments and that is why we had to intervene several times during the year, modifying, where necessary, the expenditure forecasts with special major, necessary and urgent budgetary deviations. Today we are addressing the issue of budgetary adjustment, which changes the forecasts that we have previously approved. As already pointed out, it is not easy to make political reasoning about numbers, but I would like to address some issues by highlighting some of the data that have characterized the last financial management. The overall picture of balance developments in absolute terms shows a general deterioration between the initial forecasts and the final forecasts for 2021, both for cash and for competence. In comparison with the previous year, however, the management of competence achieved in 2021 a general improvement in all balances compared to the differential results recorded in the financial year 2020. Also in relation to GDP, there is the same overall picture of evolution, with an increase from 1,651 million euros in 2020 to 1,775 million euros in 2021. The net balance to be financed, given the difference between final revenue and final expenditure, has in 2021 a negative value of around 187.7 billion, with an improvement of more than 83.2 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2020. This improvement is the result of an increase in final revenue by about 11.7% and a slight reduction in final expenditure by about 2%. If compared with the initial forecasts, which indicated a negative value of the net balance of -193,5 billion, the improvement is pairs to approximately 5.8 billion. The government savings, the current balance, which if positive measures the share of current market resources to the financing of capital expenditure, amounted in 2021 to -64.9 billion, an improvement of 40.5 billion compared to 2020. The weight of total expenditure in relation to GDP increased from 65.2% in 2020 to 59.7% in 2021. Compared to the budget, as a result of the adoption of emergency measures, the final forecast of expenditure on final operations showed an increase of 98.3 billion, +12.7 percent compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law. The increase was for current expenditure with an increase of 11.2 percent and capital expenditure, increased by 21.5%. The general accounts and budgetary adjustment are severely penalized by the effects of the pandemic and the current energy crisis. Today we must look at these measures to find a way out of the current situation in the country and we can do so by taking advantage of the fact that we have an important instrument on which we are already working, the PNRR. In recent years we have had to make a painful but forced choice: increase public debt to cope with the crisis. Reforms, therefore, are not procrastinable, because it is through them that this debt can be made sustainable, considering it a kind of strategic debt and necessary to the country to share. First of all, the crucial issue of tax reform, which is likely to be penalised by the current political crisis, should be pursued. It must be pointed out that there can be no real growth in the country without a reform that is able to revive the economy, increase the purchasing power of families and help workers and businesses concretely. On this, we must commit ourselves in a tenacious and decisive way also in the next legislature, putting families, man and the dignity of work first. Compared to the crucial issue of work, the Istat data of our country show a high overall unemployment rate, 9.7%, which includes those who are not employed, but looking for work, and a high rate of inactivity, 35.5%, which includes those who are not employed and who are not looking for a job. Added to this is an alarming fact: an unprecedented demographic ageing and one of the worst in Europe, which will lead our workforce to lose some 200,000 people per year over the coming decades. A decisive reform on this issue cannot be without hot issues such as minimum wage and undeclared work. Another painful issue is the reform of justice, which should have been closed by December, not to mention a series of themes that will certainly be very soon at the table of the new Chambers because they cannot be postponed: the digitisation of the public administration, the reform of the school (let us remember that this reform provides for the issuing of fourteen implementing decrees that a Ministry currently weakened will not be able to issue in such a short time), the reform of the social shock absorbers and a whole series of measures, as many as 295 to be precise, that the old Executive should have put in black and white through a large number of implementing decrees that will not presumably see the light in these last months of 2022. The numbers that we analyze today therefore must be evaluated and judged in the context of a new political context, characterized by a deep crisis in progress, by a climate of uncertainty regarding the next political elections, but also considering the innumerable opportunities provided by the PNRR that will be able to open new scenarios for our country. For all these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u156	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, undersecretary Sartore, ladies and gentlemen, the examination and approval of the general accounts of the State administration for the financial year 2021 and the provisions for the adjustment of the State budget for the financial year 2022 is one of the most economically and financially significant moments of institutional life, or at least this should be so. The statement, in fact, serves to report to the Parliament of the activity of the Government at the end of the financial year, while the adjustment sets the performance of the accounts compared to two other fundamental appointments, the Document of Economy and Finance (DEF) and the Note of update to the DEF (NADEF), trying to settle the balances of the fiscal law. The evolution of the balances of the 2021 statement shows positive differences, all positive, in 2021 on 2020, so for the management of competence and also for the management of cash. Public savings improve by 40.5 billion; the use of the financial market by 82.5 billion. The net balance to be financed has a significant improvement of 83.2 billion, thanks to a significant increase in revenue, which is very significant, compared with a slight increase in expenditure. Overall, despite the fact that 2021 was still a very difficult year, for the Covid-19 pandemic and for the closures that resulted, all the balances showed an improvement, both compared to the initial forecasts of the year and to the previous year. These balances also include the deviations we have approved. Objectively, therefore, the data that are reported show how, through investments, through careful management, through a careful fight against tax evasion, even with digital tools, you can really generate a competitive advantage for this country. The change of vaccination strategy was also decisive, overcoming the pandemic that blocked the country, giving impetus to economic recovery and, consequently, to the improvement of macroeconomic balances. From this point of view, politically denouncing both the opposite arguments, both those who claimed that an efficient vaccination campaign had not been organized, and those who did not want a real vaccination campaign and not even the restrictions, this strategy was instead the salvation of Italy and the data show it. With regard to budgetary adjustment data, we have a positive development of all balances: a positive development of the public accounts and also a positive development of macroeconomic data photographed by recent GDP and employment data. GDP growth to 3.4%, even higher than expected in the DEF, to 3.1 percent, makes Italy one of the most virtuous countries in growth in this period. Employment also has extraordinarily positive data: even in June, more 0.4% and employment rates over 60%. But the really historical data is that reported by Istat: 18 million employed in employee work. It's been decades since there was such a high value. This also depends on a transformation of fixed-term work into permanent work and also gives us reason to have removed the constraints of the decree of dignity. Those constraints would not have allowed us to maintain employment, even on a fixed-term basis, at the moment of the most serious crisis: that employment which today, as the data tell us, is turning into permanent employment. With regard to changes in the 2022 adjustment, the net balance to be financed shows an improvement of 39 billion, due, again, to a significant increase in revenue and a very slight increase in expenditure. So, the balance is definitely positive. To drive this positive trend is the increase in tax revenues, both direct and above all indirect. The increase in VAT, certainly due to the fight against evasion, e-invoicing, an instrument put in place by the Renzi Government since 2014, unfortunately, and it must be said, is also linked to inflation, which, by dragging up the prices of raw materials and energy products, carries with it, of course, also the value of VAT revenues. Other balances are also very positive on 2022: the public savings show a positive balance of 37.9 billion, a very reduced use of the market compared to the needs of previous years, and the net debt, as has been said, amounts to 22.7 billion, of which 14.3 billion were authorized precisely with the report ex Article 6, approved by this Assembly last week to financially support the decree-law aid bis, a fundamental measure to respond once again to the needs of companies, families and local authorities for the energy crisis, as well as of the agricultural and productive world for the drought crisis. The other 8.4 billion of this net debt is a figure to be observed carefully, because it responds to a measure that has been introduced on the extra taxation of energy companies. This is a controversial rule, subject to appeal in the Constitutional Court, pushed a lot by populist forces, objectively also for how it was written - it could have been written differently, if only they had not insisted - so we have a figure: the taxation of extra profits is far below expectations. This shows us once again that the combined disposition of populist norms, on the one hand, and the scream of fiscal peace and sanatoria, on the other hand, does not help the accounts of the State nor supports the action of this Government and of the neighbour. However, taxation remains a key element. It is certainly essential to continue the fight against evasion, but it is equally important to work on the high and unfair tax burden. For this reason, the draft law delegation on tax reform is particularly important in the content, as it has been structured and it is important that it be approved. I hope that tomorrow the Capigroup will decide in this regard; in any case, those contents must be the basis of tax reform to do the good of the country. These very important documents tell us a lot because the data speak in a certain sense, and they tell us that, despite this country has gone through significant crises (the pandemic, the war, the energy crisis and also the food crisis), when the management of the public accounts is wise and the instruments put in place are good, the country holds. The impact of these measures is mitigated and there is a positive response: GDP is confirming this. The country sailed well, so to have interrupted this action was an act that I find guilty, certainly from politicians a little'strabici who have seen with greater dimension their personal gain compared to the interest of the country and its real needs. Yet, in these two years we have seen one important thing: what Italy can be, credible, capable and authoritative. We are now in a chaotic phase, unfortunately, and we are at a standstill; the reform process has been slowed down, interrupted by proposals that are unrealizable to the "spend and spread" that surely could only "disburse" the good work on the public accounts done so far; still also for the many ideological nos that start to get off, unnecessarily strong, in our country. We intend to keep the bar straight on what was the agenda of the Government Draghi, because the data confirm that that is the right way for Italy; therefore, our commitment will always and strongly in this direction. In conclusion, Mr President, I naturally declare the Italian Group's vote in favour of the report and the settlement, thanking the President Draghi and the Ministry of Economics and Finance, represented here by the Undersecretary Sartore, for the excellent service rendered to Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u159	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I too agree with the thanks of my colleagues to Mr Sartore: he has been an exceptional person, with whom we have worked very well, and we thank you for the intellectual honesty you have always represented in the work of the Commission. So, thank you, Undersecretary, for this end of the legislature. We do not really appreciate the words spoken by my fellow Members, because the only really positive aspect in this settlement, in my opinion, is indeed what the Undersecretary described, namely that we have within this act the 14.3 billion that will be needed for the decree that tomorrow - as it would seem - will be issued by the Council of Ministers, that we hope this time actually goes in the right direction, that is to give real support to Italian families and businesses. We are talking about an amount that can be as valuable as a budget law. On the other hand, the report and the adjustment that we are examining and voting on today contain only apparently positive data. What we have noticed is that we are in the presence of documents with more revenue than expected. We could clearly limit ourselves to sharing them, but it is also right to understand where these resources come from. The documents today clearly tell us one thing: there is an increase in the tax burden ranging from 37.9 to 38.4 percent, an additional 0.5 that is not a small thing: the usual recipe of the left, able to put his hands in the pocket of the Italian taxpayers. We must infer that the increase in the tax burden is directly linked to the increase in the Irpef, which leads to the fact that the levy on self-employed workers and employees is likely to cause this increase in income in the state's coffers. It's always them, in the end, who pay. Regardless of the fact that increasing taxes is an issue that we never agree with, this increase in fiscal pressure cries with the increase in public debt, which goes even to 152.6 percent. Then we have to think that something does not work: it increases taxes and increases the deficit of the state, which is among the worst in Europe and comparing it to the rest of the world, things are not getting better. Then we should ask ourselves how this money is spent, because this should be the spirit of the documents we are examining. We are certainly not satisfied with this, because we must point out once again that for two years now this House and this Parliament have been complicit in the waste we have denounced in all these years of tens of billions of euros, resources that were to be used to counter the pandemic and instead have scattered into thousands of relics, in unproductive bonuses at best, or worse in tips to friends and friends of friends. We as Brothers Italy have never been opposed to the increase in debt regardless, but we would like to see good debt, debt for investments, debt for growth, debt for transactions that benefit Italian taxpayers. We haven't seen any of this in the last two years. On the contrary, a bad debt has been produced: the clear example of this bad debt has given it to the Government that has misspent the state's money, it is all in the 9 billion a year that are allocated on the income of citizenship. You see, we have not gone crazy, we are not opposed to this measure without it, but it still appears today as an active labour policy, when it was a welfare policy that did not work the way it should have. We are not opposed to combating poverty, we think that a just state does not put on the same footing who can work and who cannot do it, as it does with the income of citizenship. Then we give aid and support, as Giorgia Meloni says, to those who cannot work and we create active labour policies that allow those who are in a position to be employed. It is a matter of dignity, ladies and gentlemen. On the account and on the adjustment there is a question that it is opportune to ask: behind the coldness of these numbers, can the Government say that it has left a better Italy than it has found it? We certainly do not think so, because without questioning the authority of Premier Draghi a majority as varied and heterogeneous as the one who claimed it could produce nothing good. We have seen timid reforms made only in the name of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will unfortunately be transformed on many missed occasions. As I said before, we have seen billions of euros distributed here and there without being used for long-term projects, because there has been a lack of a vision of the country, a vision that can only have a government with a solid majority, with clear ideas and projects consistent with its political history, all things that unfortunately were not there in the majority that we are going to leave behind. A government that unites everything and the opposite of everything could not go far; we have always said so in recent years and the events of the past weeks, culminated with the early dissolution of the Chambers, are proof that unfortunately we were right. You will obviously have to account for all this to the Italian people in a little over forty days' time; but, since you have so far preferred to account only to yourself, to your self-referentiality, our vote on these two measures will only be a vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u162	MANCA (PD). Mr President, undersecretary Sartore, ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that the state accounts for 2021 represent a very important step in making Parliament accountable - as some previous Members have pointed out - but I believe that this is also an extraordinary opportunity to account first of all for the country. We are talking about an important and valuable work of the Government and Parliament, aimed at building the best conditions for Italy to get out of a very difficult and painful pandemic phase. If we then put the accounts together with the adjustment of the state budget for 2022, we are talking about two fundamental and important measures. In thanking of course the undersecretary Sartore for the work carried out and also for the patient and precious collaboration, not only with the Committee budget, but with all the parliamentarians who have turned to the attention of the Government in order to find constructive solutions useful to the Country - other than tips, colleague Calandrini - I believe that we are faced with an important step that gives us a picture of public finance with a positive legacy from the current particularly important Executive, which must be carefully analyzed and, above all, with care must be guarded, because all the balances of public finance are in sharp improvement. When we talk about improved public finance balances, it does not mean that there are no major challenges ahead of us to reduce inequalities, to tackle inflation, to build the conditions for the quality of life of our communities to find an important point in social cohesion; however, the macroeconomic framework that is given to us is credible, solid and important for the future of the country and, within this macroeconomic framework, just a few numbers are enough two data. We are faced with an overall improvement effect in terms of net debt of 14.3 billion. Another fact is that we are facing a reduction in interest expenditure of some EUR 2.7 billion. I therefore believe that we must start from a fundamental point of view. How valuable is credibility and accountability in managing public debt? How important is it to have credible institutions, a credible government and a capacity on the part of the Government to build up the new profile of the European dimension and to play an even more important role at international level in the face of a huge change that is taking place as well as the one that the war in Ukraine represents? I am convinced that, without responsibility and without the quality of the Commission, it would not be possible to manage our public debt and we would find ourselves in great difficulty in building economic growth. The best condition for managing public debt is in fact growth, but the premise for building a new economic growth is the reliability and seriousness on the part of the institutions, and this Government gives us on the public finance balances a solid and reliable framework that, in my opinion, alone determines the irresponsibility of the political forces that have made another choice, that is to put an end to the experience of this Government. It is a responsibility that runs counter to the credibility that the institutions must have. The institutions served at this time to help Italian families and businesses to go through a complex phase. I believe that the Decree-Law on Aid-A, which we are going to analyse when our work resumes, could have included structural measures within it, with a government in its full capacity, even more decisive in tackling the crisis that inflation produces, beginning with the tax wedge, the reduction of labour costs, and defining important measures to ensure social cohesion and quality of life, decisive elements in order to promote economic growth without conflict. Colleagues, the measures adopted in 2021, which here Brothers of Italy called tips, are important economic measures. For us, having supported the social shock absorbers needed to prevent social conflicts and help the world of work, dependent and self-employed, and building the conditions to help families in difficulty and to promote social cohesion is the first and most important investment a community must make to promote new economic growth. [[Applause]] The community first of all, not inventions. That is why the framework of responsibility that is handed over to us by the Government unfortunately contradicts much and affects the irresponsibility that we are seeing at this stage too. Calling public debt every three times two is not compatible with the responsibility and credibility of managing our debt; calling every day the theme "less taxes for all" is not compatible with the needs that we have to reduce taxes, but from low incomes, because fiscal progressivity is an indispensable constitutional value. [[Applause]] Propagandistic proposals cannot be drawn up continuously without ever putting in the numbers, which sometimes come back and resemble a film already seen ('less taxes for all', '1,000 euros for all', and today has been added also'millions of trees for all'), and then work every day to question the fundamental pillars of the environmental transition. [[Applause.]] Telling lies and promoting the return to coal is not the environmental transition that is needed to make Italy a sustainable, modern and European country: it is the return to the past and the opening of a conflict that will not allow, whoever will rule, to manage the public debt. It will be necessary to be credible and reliable about the things we say, when you rule or rule the country. The element of credibility is a fundamental and preliminary element to promote future and economic development and also to address the enormous problems arising from a pandemic crisis before and from inflation so high today. The transition requires huge investment in training. I would like all of us to focus an extra minute on investing in human resources rather than claiming less taxes for all and pardons for all, which is the denial of the fundamental elements of the future of this country. If there is an investment that we should all consider essential right now is that in the school [[Applause]] , in continuing training for all; other than less taxes, allowances and free all. An individual society has no future unless it reconsiders a Community challenge as a decisive factor in reducing inequalities and promoting social equity. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour not only of the statement and the settlement, but also of the important measures taken in the phase of resigning government and loose chambers in which we are operating. The wise action of the President of the Republic has allowed us to keep the country safe and certain within the economic dynamics of the markets. The reliability of Italy also passes from these choices: let's not waste them with the promises in the past on a film already seen, on the denial of numbers and on the inability to maintain the bar of responsibility as a preliminary element. The Government, on public finance balances, today gives this Parliament a framework that should be used with great responsibility, to plan the future of our families and Italian companies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u165	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, of course Forza Italia agrees on both measures. The report is in fact not changeable, because it is the state of the art of 2021, while the adjustment is the result of other measures already adopted in this House or is the result of transfers made by administrative acts. I think policymakers and administrators need to understand what we are talking about today. These are discussions that would deserve us to spend the nights, if there had not been the dissolution of the Chambers, because we need to understand the budget, with experience and humility, at all levels. I had a historian deputy mayor, who for twenty years was with me and who now went on; he was an alpine, had attended the fifth grade and was a foundry worker of FIAT. He had understood the public budget; he understood and understood how to maneuver competence, residue and cash and how to move from one chapter to another. I would also like to point out to this House, although it is late now, that a medium is nasometry (as I said this morning to the Undersecretary), which applied Giovanni Goria, who was President of the Council in 1987 and was previously Minister of the Treasury for many years, with the Craxi Governments. I also invite you (if you succeed, you will have other sources) to read every now and then the site Saffron news by Riccardo Ruggeri, who is a former manager of New Holland (FIAT), son of the custodians of the FIAT office building. He says that Italy has technically failed for years, but it is a public body and it goes on. Then let's talk about the budget. The statement shall be made from the balance sheet account and the asset account. The assets are given by 1,001 billion assets, which include buildings and other infrastructure, according to inventory assessments, and credits. The liability is 3,434 billion, which is all public debt, plus the liabilities balances of the annual budget. The result is a deficit of 2,433 billion, of which 218 are additional in 2021, compared to 2020. These are the real figures. There is no such figure in these assets that the President-in-Office of the Council let go in the last speech in this House of the 1,100 billion tax warehouse. The tax warehouse is not 1,100 billion, which are fairy tales, are amounts that date back to fifty years ago, but it is 70-80 billion, of which the cashable figure is about half (35-37 billion). These are the data provided by your colleagues at the MEF, dear Undersecretary. These are the facts we need to talk about. The numbers are not questionable and do not forgive. In fact, the report refers to an improvement in balances compared to the financial year 2020. That's for sure, because 2020 had been an annus horribilis, that of the Covid; 2021 has gone a bit better. It is true that we had to raise loans of 424 billion, in the face of a repayment of 236 billion. This is the amount before, which has made the balance of the assets more negative. In the accounts, in the budget account, there is the long-standing question of residues, which amount to EUR 211 billion in assets and approximately EUR 196 billion (almost 197) in liabilities. Active and passive residues are more or less equal as an amount, but the passive ones are certain and the active ones are a little less so. However, these things must be improved. The management of the competence, the cash and the residues together with the cash makes the mix of the budget, according to which the net balance to be financed, that is what we approve today, has been equal to 220 billion euros. We then approve, in Article 3 of today's measure, the deficit in the management of powers, which amounts to EUR 59 billion, which only takes account of competence. I really invite you to think a lot about these numbers. The budget annexes also include data on Europe and our contribution to Europe, which amounts to 1.2% of GDP, is EUR 20.87 billion. In 2021 we had EUR 40 billion from Europe, of which EUR 25 billion with the first instalment of the PNRR. The difference of EUR 15 billion is what Europe gives us with the contributions, compared with the EUR 20.87 billion we pay. This EUR 20.87 billion will be able to increase, because 1.2% of GDP will be able to become 2% - this is what we have decided here - to return European subsidies, that is, the part of the PNRR that is aid. This is the truth; these are the official acts. As some of my previous speakers have already said, we are lucky to have an increase in direct and indirect taxes. As has already been said and reiterated, indirect taxes, including VAT on petrol, contribute to the financing of many things, including EUR 14.3 billion of the Decree-Law 2, which is being approved tomorrow, but also the transfer - as it is written in the acts - to the public authorities responsible, for the single and universal cheque, of EUR 10.3 billion. This single allowance includes, on the revenue side, the non-allocation of the 80 euros of the Renzi Government. That's the data. I shall conclude with some assessments, because I am asked to be brief. So what leaves us and what leaves this legislature, which ends, to Italy and the Italians, to ourselves in terms of experience and the next legislature? We leave the need to make growth through the increase in GDP, which from approximately €1,850 billion must increase in a dry and decisive way. How do you get it up? This is done by injecting confidence, certainty and seriousness. For example, serious is also to say what is done with the 110% bonus, which must be closed in some way and brought back to 80%, perhaps after a period of suspension, but in the certainty of what is at stake and who started the practices for 110 percent. This is politics, Italy is strong, its manufacturing industry is strong, but all sectors are strong and have the most varied productions and there is a large export-related force. With the exception of external factors, we will be able to secure the debt, also thanks to inflation, which in some way diminishes it. Inflation must be governed, however, because it determines the need to increase pensions and salaries, despite the Governor of the Bank of Italy, on 31 May, in his annual assessments, said that the mechanism of increasing pensions and salaries should not be triggered. But what about the bills? So there is a very complicated and very effervescent system, which will require confidence, certainty and seriousness, which, in my opinion - my colleagues do not want - there is also in the center-right (and I say center-right). There is so much good will, but there is also so much seriousness and no one can blame us, which are the result of contingent facts of that terrible July 20. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u168	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this heat at the end of the parliamentary term, we are quickly examining the general government statement for the financial year 2021 and the provisions for the adjustment of the state budget for the financial year 2022, two very important documents that are generally somewhat neglected, because they deal with figures, public accounts, in short, boring issues. However, budget reporting and budgetary adjustment would need a great deal of further study, as other colleagues have already pointed out, but we cannot do so any more today. The accounting statement is the accounting document that photographs the performance of the accounts of the year just passed, 2021, while the adjustment updates in mid-year the budgetary forecasts formulated under current legislation, so we are talking about the development of the first half of 2022. These documents serve to verify the goodness and effectiveness of the measures put in place by the Government and then approved by Parliament. In general, the accounts are in order, in the sense that, compared to the forecasts, in 2021 we have finally recorded a decrease of the expenditures pairs to approximately 2%, but above all greater revenues pairs to approximately 11.7%. This is certainly a positive figure for the public accounts, but in my opinion a little less for the pockets of the Italians. Inevitably, after the closure of 2020, with the global blockade of the economy, 2021 began with disproportionate increases in the costs of raw materials: in February 2021 the price of iron (to speak of a material that we all know) began to rise dramatically, as well as that of plastic and wood; it is therefore obvious that a company that no longer returns with the costs eventually increases prices, as happened throughout 2021. Price increases in manufacturing and processing may have taken a few months to intervene, but inevitably they have arrived and reflected on consumer prices. The situation has been worsened by the war, which has also led to increases in the prices of energy products, which have certainly made more clamour to the public, but which have gone to add further to those already in place. All this pressure on prices has meant that VAT revenues have increased in particular; in fact, the higher direct tax revenues are the first cause of the unexpected improvement in revenue. Certainly this Government was able to support and help the economy in difficulty for the closures and restrictions that also characterized 2021. Let us not forget how much the League has fought to obtain, for example, the reductions on excise duties, the containment of the effects of the expensive energy for 2022, the cancellation of the system charges; measures that only according to the Government (even if in a varied government of emergency) has been able to obtain. It welcomes the fact that the Commission has managed to put in place aid measures without further recourse to debt; even the last budgetary deviation from 14.3 billion (which technically is not a deviation, since we have established in advance in particular the higher tax revenues for more than 10 billion) is allowing the Commission to allocate these amounts to the so-called Decree-Law on Aid bis, which will shortly be approved. During 2020, deviations of around 200 billion were approved, a figure virtually equivalent to the whole PNRR, and then allocated to measures that in some cases - as is said in the jargon - have not done much. Many of these billions could then be used for other support measures without further deviations. This leads me to a reflection on which I personally always insist. Good laws must be made, written well and usable by families, businesses and citizens in general. [[Applause]] When too many residues remain in the coffers of the state, it means that even what could have been the most beautiful measure in the world risks becoming a pure illusion. I take advantage of this explanation of vote to make a final appeal to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. The citizens and the productive fabric call for serious and concrete tax relief interventions, the increase of salaries without the aggraviation of taxes and leaps, greater delays in order to be able to pay the debitorial records, the cancellation of that tax warehouse inexpensive. We are also calling for VAT to be reduced on basic necessities. It is necessary to be concrete, to get down in reality and to overcome the distances that often exist between the citizen and the legislator. All that has been said, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets for the years we have spent together, during which we have worked in harmony, despite all the differences. I also thank the undersecretary Sartore, here present, who has always been very attentive to all our requests and requests. I would like to thank Mr Pesco, with whom we have spent these years. I have also noted the comments made by the rapporteur, Senator Faggi, and I therefore conclude by voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u171	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I should like to begin by thanking the Secretary-General, Mr Sartore, for the fine words she has spoken to the entire Budget Committee. It is true that it has been four years (and less in your case, a year and a half) during which we have done a fruitful job, although in the last government we have often had conflicting visions. Today we are discussing a measure that must be seen in close connection, indeed I would say in a prompt manner to the imminent arrival of the decree-law aid- bis. It should also be read and analysed in relation to some recent economic measures taken by the Draghi Government, which part of the press defines the Government as the best. This measure certifies, in fact, that in the first half of 2022 there are little more than 14 billion more tax revenues, which derive in part from inflation and which allow this Executive to give financial coverage to the aid-a decree, a measure that will have a firepower of 14 billion and that will bring support to families and businesses. Unfortunately, however, this is a partial and absolutely non-solving support for the emergencies in which families and businesses are located. As the Draghi Government itself (the so-called Government of the Best) admitted in its technical report to the amendment by which the Ministry of Economy corrected this measure, a huge gap has actually been created in revenue and revenue expectations of 9 billion euros. I am referring to the taxation of the so-called extra-profits obtained by the energy giants. The Commission, in essence, had to note that this revenue derived from payments to be made by 30 June and which expired was very low: of the nearly 10.5 billion envisaged, virtually more than one was received. This content of the technical report has been reported, for example, by "Il Sole 24 Ore" (The Sun 24 Hours), which is the daily newspaper of Confindustria, is not a daily near the Movimento 5 Stars. Well, in this article on the front page the newspaper blames the reason for this resounding hole created by the government Draghi and by the Minister of Economics Franco, most faithful of the President of the Council and in addition - I remember - already Accountant of the State, to the incorrect writing of the norm that does not allow a correct estimate of the extraprofits and that therefore has pushed the companies that would have had to pay these taxes, as it recalls "Il Sole 24 Ore" to not pay them and indeed to prepare a series of appeals and litigations against the State. Congratulations, then, to the Government of the best, President Draghi and Minister Franco. Among other things, I listened a few minutes ago to a logical reversal by Senator Conzatti of Italy Viva, of the Renziani, who said that the fault of this hole is not to be blamed on those who have miswritten the norm (so essentially the Ministry of Economics and Finance and Minister Franco), but on those who asked instead the norm and I seem to remember that this rule on extraprofits had been asked by the whole Parliament, not by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I would like to remind the Renzians that they obviously do not follow the work of this House well and forget what is happening here. Unfortunately, this measure, which could have a financial power of 23 billion, has to stop at 14 billion because of these mistakes. So the aid that you will be able to give to families and businesses, which would not have been sufficient or decisive already, as I said just now, is even less so. Among other things, I have a spontaneous question: if such a big mistake had been made by a Minister of a political government headed by Movimento 5 Stars, what would have happened? Televisions, which every day, from morning to night, shoot the Movimento, what would they say? Instead there was a silence of grave, it says "Il Sole 24 Ore" but there was no debate nor anyone asked questions about this aspect. Everything is normal because the Government of the best never fails, it is as infallible as the Pope. [[Applause]] Among other things, the Sun 24 Hours today on the front page gives us another important news, that is, it certifies that, according to an ANCE study, about 30 percent of these 14 billion extrajected come from the proceeds of the superbonus, that is, from the norm that was attacked by this Executive, by President Draghi himself, who had gone to Europe to say that it was a wrong norm that he did not share and that he attacked a few days ago here in the Senate, saying contemptuously that the norm on the transfer of credits was wrong, so it was political responsibility of those who had written that norm. I would merely point out that the Draghi Government lasted eighteen months and did 11 interventions on the issue of the transfer of credits. [[Applause]] But if you are so good, if you are so much better than others, do you know how to write a rule for once or do we have to tell you, after eleven times that you are wrong to write it, that because of you the market of the sale of credits has been substantially blocked, that because of you there are 50,000 companies on the brink of bankruptcy because they have five billion credits in their belly and can not sell them and therefore transform them into liquidity? This is a situation that we really have been carrying around for many months. We at Movimento 5 Stars have done everything in the Commissions and here in this House. I myself, like so many colleagues, have repeatedly pointed this out by telling the government not to pull the strings and try to protect these mistakes, but there has been nothing to do. To conclude, these are all reflections which, if you had some intellectual honesty, should affect the whole public. However, Mr President, for the reasons I have briefly explained, while taking into account all the errors and shortcomings highlighted, also in view of the fact that part of the coverage of the aid-a decree derives from measures designed, wanted and approved by the Movimento 5 Stars, this political group will vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u174	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to thank everyone for the work he has done, especially undersecretary Sartore, who has helped us in many areas. I thank all the collaborators and offices, not only of the Senate, but also of the Ministries, with whom we have often dealt. I think we have done a good job and I thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u175	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 2682 and 2683. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill no. 2682, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2683, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u176	Colleagues, in order to allow the Commissions to complete the work on the reform of the tax procedure, tomorrow's sitting will start at 10.30 a.m. instead of 9.30 a.m. I therefore proceeded to convene the Conference of Leaders at 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u179	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 25 July 2018, I spoke for the first time in this House about the ferocity of a no-TAV attack on the Chiomonte shipyard. It's been four years, but nothing's changed. In fact, today I want to bring to your attention what happened on Saturday in San Didero. A thousand protesters started from the camping of the Festival Alta Happiness in the direction of the TAV yard; Among these, some thirty antagonists gave rise to a guerrilla war with the Forces of Order, which caused the injury of 14 agents. The premeditation is evident from the clothing of the attackers, the weapons used and the strategy. The attack had two fronts: a handful of protesters crossed the A32 motorway and forced SITAF to close the Turin-Bardonecchia at the height of Avigliana, in order to prevent the launch of blunt objects against the Forces of order could cause highway accidents. All this, of course, creating a strong discomfort to the road and to the citizens of a valley that would be evoked for tourism, which hosted the Olympics of Turin 2006 and which now lives a moment of economic difficulty, caused also by these situations. The procession at the construction site was in the program of the festival organized, as known, by antagonists, which have little to do with the inhabitants of the Val Susa, and which attracts people from all over Europe. A tragedy announced; despite everything, some phenomenon has well thought to advertise the event on the site of the Municipality of Turin. Askatasuna has always been the undisputed protagonist of the attacks on the construction site that have occurred over the years and the reports of DIGOS emphasize how the guerrilla techniques used are very similar to those seen in war zones, borrowed from other territories of conflict - see Kurdistan - and adapted to the context of the area. Mr President, I'm sorry, I'm just asking you for an extra minute, given the buzz. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, I'll give you one more minute, but try to synthesize why they want to intervene in so many. CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I summarize, President, but the situation is serious and the noise is high. Explosive orders, rockets, stones and handicrafts such as the potato shooter, defined as a lethal weapon because it can launch long range objects at the speed of a bullet, are constantly used against the agents placed on guard of the yard. What do you expect to prevent certain situations? What do you expect to ban the High Happiness Festival? What do you expect to close the social center of Turin Askatasuna, a well-known den of criminals? Run off the dead guy? Politics and institutions must distance themselves from these criminals who, using the TAV as a fetish, want to attack the State and its institutions through unprecedented violence against the Forces of Order. Full solidarity and closeness to me and the entire League to the wounded and the operators of the Forces of the Order, which we thank for the defense of the legality and the work of the workers. Enough with criminals out of history and against modernity that do nothing but damage our territory and the whole country. Hard wrist, certain penalties and on the side of the Forces of Order, always. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u182	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking to announce that, although the Chambers are loose, I will, in any case, shortly put a parliamentary question on a sensitive subject. I have received several reports, phone calls and also messages from the workers of the former Alitalia flag company. We are talking about an entirely state-owned company, ITA Airways, which - I remember - started its activity without a national collective agreement, in the total silence of this Parliament, by virtue of an infrastructure and transport decree-law 2021, which I, of course, could not vote for. Having said that, as I said, I have received a number of reports about hiring, that is, the recruitment lists of ITA Airways would seem - the conditional is an obligation because I would not want to make an accusation without evidence - not to be managed transparently. I say this because it is a state company, born with so many difficulties and passed for three governments and three ministers: we managed to bring nationalization; after that, the MEF with the former minister Gualtieri managed the industrial plan. I wonder if the owner of the Company is actually aware of how they are managing the hirings, because what I have been told from several sources is that there are even - I reserve the right to put this term in quotes and in a very balanced way - a little 'intimidation' and many times people are discarded who have all the requirements, without it being clear why. I was about to file the question before the Government and the Chambers were dissolved, but I will also announce that I will do so until the last day, however, I will be with these workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u185	VONO (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, I would just like to reflect on the fire, presumably arson in view of the sophisticated methods that have taken place against the historic Guglielmo coffee company in my Calabria, at the Copanello di Stalettì plants in Catanzaro. We are talking about a prestigious example of serious and constant work over time, of tradition and innovation that has allowed us to make known the virtuosity of Calabrian entrepreneurship in the world, through the motto created by Don Guglielmo Papaleo, founder of the company, emeritus recognized as the knight of work: "Guglielmo, the coffee that makes center". Beyond solidarity as a due act, I found it more sensible to immediately and directly confront Matteo Tubertini, the young CEO of the company, to offer institutional and personal availability for whatever action he wanted to put in the field and to share ways of intervention against intolerable situations that no longer have to be the alibi to not do. I complimented him for not interrupting production for a minute. Beyond the individual affair and the work of the judiciary, I think it is necessary to spend a few more words on those companies that invest in the South, in Calabria, in particularly difficult areas, and offer real and serious institutional collaboration, because with their activities they allow job opportunities, the only weapon available to combat organised crime and all kinds of mafias, together with culture. Let me also, by linking myself to culture, send a hug to the new rector of the University of Reggio Calabria, Giuseppe Zimbalatti, for the serious episode that occurred yesterday towards him and draw the attention of the young people, who - as Paolo Borsellino said - must be involved, because they are the most suitable to immediately feel the beauty of the fresh fragrance of freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u188	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, in the last vote, my system did not work, but I would like it to remain in the documents which I voted in favour of. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u191	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, I would just like to say that the previous speaker has raised a very serious problem which I have also been informed of, because the owners of this company are of Bolognese origin and operate with their company, Guglielmo Caffè, in Catanzaro. This episode, as you recalled also living on the territory, deserves a very serious reflection. We certainly feel reassured by the attention that the judiciary is directing to this reality and above all to these phenomena that can be defined as intimidation, but it is clear that we cannot replace the magistrates. I believe that only they will be able to give us an answer, but it is very important to solidarity with those entrepreneurs who, sometimes challenging a climate that is not exactly favourable, move, invest, give jobs, have confidence and bet on the future of this territory. The Calabria Region then has a lot of part in the history and life of our country and I think it deserves an extra attention. This, of course, must also be addressed to the forces of order and it would certainly not be a bad thing if they were strengthened locally, in the sense that everything that represents a strengthening of the prevention apparatus is certainly important.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u194	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, last February we had the opportunity to convert the anti-Covid Decree-Law of 24 December 2021 into law, in which it was finally possible to return to visit the sick in hospitals by relatives. From March 10, then, we should have returned to normal from this point of view. We also consider that the state of emergency has ended since 31 March; yet, Mr President, although those rules have defined a number of possibilities from the point of view of timing and so on, the health management of many hospitals still define extremely strict stakes for the necessary opportunity given to relatives to visit their relatives. Mirko Damascus, president of Salva Agent Italia, an APS dedicated to the health care of people, in particular the development of systems to prevent risks to the heart, began a hunger strike to draw attention to the inconsistencies that many hospitals operate. I have here data on a number of situations: at the Erba hospital only one person can visit relatives who have been hospitalized twice a week for up to three hours; at Iseo hospital no one can enter; at Sant'Anna in Brescia for patients, even with serious difficulties, for health directives there are continuous limitations. It is not possible for the rules that Parliament adopts to be found in the bureaucracy of the brakes that are so important. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to make an authoritative statement to the Minister of Health so that clear, clear and definitive guidelines are laid down for the health management of hospitals so that all relatives of our patients can return, with the necessary doses of vaccine and with the green pass, to visit their relatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u197	GRANATO (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, today I tabled a parliamentary question, 4-07352, concerning an extremely serious matter. A health worker employed by the Palermo ASP6, Dr. Carmela Maimone, invalid, blind, was suspended from work after ninety days of infection with Covid-19 for not being vaccinated and physically prevented from access to the facility in which she works, not already by the professional order competent to impose the suspension, but by the same direction as the ASP6. This is a very serious matter. The suspension would be nothing because it was not imposed by the body responsible for it and, nevertheless, there was a provision to block access to the structure of an employee, I repeat, blind. Under these conditions the country is reduced, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, the majority who have made these sensible choices has put the country in such a serious condition that it discriminates in the workplace even against disabled people: I think we have really exceeded the level of guard and I think it is appropriate to recall Article 28 of the Constitution, which provides that civil servants and managers are also responsible for the fulfillment of orders received, where these violin of fundamental rights. We also remember what happened in Nuremberg and hope for a Nuremberg 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u200	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House the memory of the murder of Angelo Vassallo, the mayor of the fisherman, and to express the satisfaction, my personal and everyone's, for the breakthrough that had finally - hopefully decisive - in the investigation. Angelo was brutally killed with nine gunshots on the night of September 5, 2010; a crime unfortunately still unsolved and still being investigated by investigators and investigators to identify performers and senders. Vassallo was a capable and forward-looking administrator, well-enjoyed by his fellow citizens and has made Pollica the world capital of the Mediterranean diet and a slow lifestyle now recognized worldwide. Angelo, visionary mayor, defender of legality, of the protection of the environment and of the constant and determined struggle to construction speculation, able to fight with conviction and without fear the trade and drug dealing in his community, was a man with simple and felt human relations. It became a symbol of a healthy and clean South that does not bow to violence, capable of investing in tourism and in the valorization of its natural beauties, bringing the Chilean community to world attention. Despite the tragedy and violence of his barbaric murder, Angelo left the ideal witness to his friends and fellow citizens, to pursue his dream and the rebirth of his Pollica. Finally, there are new suspects and the suspected crimes are homicide and criminal association aimed at drug trafficking. The investigative hypothesis of the ROS and the magistrates of the attorney of Salerno is that the mayor fisherman had not wanted to bend to the camorra and was killed twelve years ago because he wanted to denounce the drug trafficking around the marina of Acciaroli. I should like to conclude, Mr President. The steps taken say that we are on the right path to the truth. The wish of all of us is that we can finally, quickly, reach the complete truth to finally render justice to the memory of Angelo Vassallo, the mayor fisherman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u201	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-459.ana.u202	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, August 4, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.12 p.m.
