ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.38 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 3 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u3	I communicate that on 5 May 2022 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 24 of 24 March 2022, laying down urgent provisions for the overcoming of measures to combat the spread of the outbreak by COVID-19, as a result of the cessation of the state of emergency" (2604).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders adopted the agenda of the Assembly by a majority until 17 May. In today's sitting, until its conclusion, the general discussion of the decree-law on the economic effects of the Ukrainian crisis will take place. Since the Government has announced the position of the question of confidence on the measure, the Conference of Leaders has organised the relevant debate. In the afternoon of tomorrow, once the amendment to replace the decree-law is received, the Presidency will proceed with the assessment of eligibility and the transmission of the text to the 5th standing Commission. In the morning of Thursday, 12 May, the House will move to explanations of vote on confidence, to which it will be called. The agenda for tomorrow's session also includes, starting at 9.30 a.m., the discussion, from the writing site, of the following drafts of law: declaration of national monument of the Teatro Regio di Parma; celebrations for the hundredth anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti; saving law, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. At the request of a number of groups, tomorrow's parliamentary work in the House and Commissions will be suspended from 12 a.m. to 2 p.m. On Tuesday 17 May, at 4.30 p.m., the decree-law on the cessation of the state of emergency, approved by the House of Deputies, and the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the path of treatment for men who are perpetrators of violence in affective and gender relations, will be discussed. The Conference of Leaders will meet on Tuesday 17, at 3.30 p.m. to define the further programme of work. On Thursday 19 May, at 3 p.m., the Premier question time is scheduled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 17 May: [[Tuesday, May 10, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of Law No. 2564 - Decree-Law No. 21, Economic Effects of the Ukrainian Crisis (cancelled on May 20) - Drawing of Law No. 2416 - Declaration of the National Monument Teatro Regio di Parma (from the building) - Drawing of Law No. 2317 - Celebrations for the 100th anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti (from the building) - Drawing of Law No. 1571-B - SalvaMare law (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the building) Wednesday 11 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 12 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday, May 17 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2604 - Decree-Law n. 24, Cessation state of emergency (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on May 23) - Doc. XXII- bis, point 8 - Report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide on the treatment pathways for men who are perpetrators of violence in emotional and gender relations]] Amendments to draft law No 2604 (Decree-Law No 24, Cessation of State of Emergency) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Thursday 12 May. On Thursday 19 May, at 3 p.m., questions will be answered immediately, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the President of the Council of Ministers. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2564 (Decree-Law No 21, Economic Effects of the Ukrainian Crisis) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 35' Mixed 34'+5' FdI 27'+5' IV-PSI 24' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 22' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2604 (Decree-Law No 24, Cessation of emergency status) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 41' L-SP-PSd'Az 37' FIBP-UDC 33' PD 28' Mixed 27'+5' FdI 21'+5' IV-PSI 19' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 18' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 16' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u9	CRUCIOLI (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Mr President, I take the floor to ask for a change in the timetable, because I believe that at a time like what we are experiencing the most important topic for all of us and for the country is the one relating to the Ukrainian and military crisis and the determinations that we must take on whether or not to send further weapons. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to schedule urgently this week - possibly tomorrow - the intervention in the Chamber of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs through the communication tool, so that the House can give directions to the Government by voting on the motions for resolutions. As a further change to the timetable, I call for the information provided by President Draghi next week to be transformed into communications so that the House can vote. In summary, I ask for two changes to the timetable: this week's timetable for the communication of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence and the transformation of President Draghi's information into communications. It seems clear to me that the communications of the relevant ministers should be brought forward to tomorrow (or at least as a matter of urgency) and - then - allow the Senate, on both occasions, to give precise indications to the Government in relation to the sending or not of further weapons to Ukraine. I therefore call for this request to be put to the vote for a change to the timetable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u12	CASTELLONE (M5S). Madam President, we already last week, in fact, urged President Draghi to come to the House to share the political line of our Government at this very delicate time. However, we must take account of the fact that Senator Crucioli's proposal is unrealizable, given that President Draghi is currently in the United States, so asking for him to come to the Chamber tomorrow is impossible. [[Comments]] It is important for us that President Draghi and not the Ministers come, so we shall abstain on this proposal to amend the timetable. However, we call for and again call for President Draghi's presence in the Chamber as soon as possible for communications. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u13	Thank you, Senator Castellone. However, this was the subject of discussion at the Conference of the Leaders and - as all colleagues have been able to learn - a Premier time is already planned next week. We have already discussed the possible modalities and another Conference of the Leaders is planned at the beginning of next week (just to give full weight). We shall proceed with the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u16	RAUTI (FdI). I would like to briefly explain our abstention vote in relation to the timetable that we are about to vote on. I recall that last week Brothers of Italy, during the joint hearing at the Defense Commissions of the Chamber and Senate, in the presence of Minister Guerini, had already asked for an information from President Draghi. We have done so because the full mandate that Parliament has given - I am referring to the decree-laws of Ukraine one and two - also provided for a continuous and constant updating of Parliament. So, by virtue of this, we were among the first to ask for information. Subsequently the President - as has been mentioned by his colleagues - indicated the date of 19 for a question time and in the meantime important meetings are taking place concerning the visit of President Draghi and his meeting with President Biden. I would therefore like to give our reasons for abstaining on the request to amend the timetable put forward by Mr Crucioli, who is about to be put to the vote. This request for a hearing of Ministers is somehow understood and surpassed by the question time already scheduled, so I am making it a matter of method and not of merit, of course. However, I would also like to say that we hope that the Brothers of Italy just proposed in the Conference of the Leaders will be welcomed, that is, that the question time already scheduled can be transformed into an information, because this would allow us to have longer times of confrontation on a topic that surely represents the emergency among emergencies. With regard to this, we are abstaining, also on the basis of what was requested at the Conference of the Leaders, and we are clearly waiting for a response from Prime Minister Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u17	Thank you, Senator Rauti. Your speech takes further account of what I had told the House about the substance of the debate at the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u20	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the proposal to have the Ministers report, which seems to me to be a considerable responsibility and they can do so very well even if Prime Minister Draghi is in the United States. I also agree with the request for information, because we all know that the question time does not include the vote on motions for resolutions and especially because, unfortunately, oppositions are often not given a voice (especially the Mixed Group). Therefore, not only do I ask for information to be kept, but if this vote is negative, I ask that everyone be given the opportunity to ask questions, otherwise in questions time it always happens that oppositions, especially in the Mixed Group, have no word. I therefore announce that I intend to ask President Draghi a question, on the grounds that the opposition senators are only about twenty; in the event that we are not given information, I would therefore like to give a privileged lane to the oppositions to ask President Draghi questions. Otherwise we will turn the question time into a theater where majorities ask the President what he is doing, he answers and they congratulate themselves. On the contrary, I believe that the oppositions in this situation must have more space than they have in this case.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u21	Senator Fattori, we interpret your speech as an explanation of vote in favour of Senator Crucioli's proposal; instead, the other considerations will be the subject of evaluation of the next Conference of the Leaders, as has already been announced. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, put forward by Senator Crucioli. It's not approved. It is understood that some of the issues raised will be the subject of the next Conference of Leaders next Tuesday. CRUCIOLI (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. CRUCIOLI (CAL-A-PC-IDV). Mr President, the numbers did not appear in the scoreboard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I remember that the counter-test vote is without registration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2564. The rapporteurs, Senators Fenu and Tiraboschi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Fenu.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u23	Mr President, this draft law is aimed at the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 21 of 21 March 2022 introducing urgent measures to counter the economic and humanitarian effects of the Ukrainian crisis. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Tiraboschi, for the work she has done - I must say, with competence - the Presidents, the representative of the Government, the Undersecretary of War, and all the members of the Commissions who have gathered for the long work they have done to improve the text, trying to respond to the issues that emerged during the debate in the Commissions. Let me point out that many issues and various amending proposals have not found room in this provision because they will be the subject of the decree-laws coming from the Government, in particular the so-called decree-law aid. One of the issues, for example, is the extension of the deadline for the use of the superbonus 110% for single-family housing. Another measure that I hope will be present in the text of the decree-law aid is the greater facilitation of the transferability of tax credits by banks even to customers, even before the third step. Going into detail of the content of the measure, Article 1 (1) and (2) provides for the reduction of excise rates on fuels from 22 March to 21 April 2022, while paragraph 3 suspends certain facilitations in the matter of excise duties on fuels for the same period arranged for current legislation due to specific uses. Paragraph 7 - in order to prevent the risk of speculative manoeuvres - provides for the involvement of the Guarantor for the monitoring of prices and the Authority guaranteeing competition and the market. During the parliamentary examination, the measures in Article 1 were extended to 8 July with an amendment by the Government which transposed the content of Decree-Law No 38 of 2 May 2022 on urgent measures relating to excise duties and VAT on fuels. Article 2 provides that private employers may freely assign good fuel to their employees who do not contribute to income formation. Article 3 provides for the recognition of undertakings with electricity meters of available power equal to or greater than 16,5 kilowatts - other than those with high electricity consumption - of an extraordinary contribution in the form of a tax credit equal to 12% of the expenditure incurred for the purchase of the energy component actually used in the second quarter 2022, where the price of the same, calculated on the basis of the average for the first quarter 2022, has increased the cost per kilowatt hour by more than 30% compared to the same quarter of 2019. Article 4 recognises a tax credit for the purchase of natural gas to undertakings other than those with high gas consumption which have already been facilitated by Decree-Law No 17 of 2022, the so-called Decree-Law on Energy. This partial compensation of the higher costs actually incurred for the purchase of the gas itself for energy uses other than the thermoelectric ones. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I can also read with this noise, but perhaps there is someone interested in listening.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u24	Senator Fenu, you're right. He knows that I am always very careful to call the House to listen, so I would also like to make a further point because those who want to listen can stay in the Chamber, those who do not think so, are not obliged, while the subject is of interest. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to reduce the tone of the voice very significantly or otherwise to come out. It will be my care to draw attention. Please, Senator Fenu.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u25	The provision also provides that this tax credit may be transferred only in full from the recipient undertakings to other entities without the possibility of subsequent transfer, without prejudice to the possibility of two further transfers only if it is made to banks and financial intermediaries registered on the register. Here we apply the same mechanism that we already know for the superbonus and that will be subject to imminent modification; it has already been subject to modification to the Chamber because now we know that the banks will be able to yield to their customers. In the event of the transfer of the tax credit, the beneficiary undertakings are required to apply for a visa of conformity of the data relating to the documentation attesting to the existence of the conditions. The amending proposals relating to Articles 3 and 4 are among those that have not found room in this provision, but will find space in the decrees of next issue. Article 5 increases the extraordinary contributions in the form of a tax credit, recognised by Decree-Law No 17 of 2022 to companies with a high consumption of electricity, so-called energy companies, and to companies with a high consumption of natural gas, thus aggrieving. During the parliamentary examination, a number of important provisions were adopted, added to Article 5. In particular, the approval of the amendment to allow existing biogas plants to maximise the production of electricity, including by exceeding the power limit allowed under the legislation on the recognition of incentives, using this extra-production at the market price and without affecting the total resources provided as an incentive. Article 9 provides that tax credits deriving from contributions to energy-intensive enterprises for the first and second trimester 2022, as laid down in Articles 15 of Decree-Law No 4 of 2022, Article 4 of Decree-Law No 17 of 2022 and the contribution to tax-intensive enterprises for the first quarter 2022, as laid down in Article 5 of Decree-Law No 17 of 2022, shall be used by 31 December 2022 and shall be transferable, also in this case with the same mechanism as we know, relating to the superbonus and other building bonuses. Article 18 introduces a tax credit to undertakings operating agricultural and fisheries activities, equivalent to 20% of the expenditure incurred for the purchase of fuel in the first solar quarter of 2022. Article 22 grants a contribution, in the form of a tax credit, to tourist-receptive enterprises equal to 50% of the amount of the IMU paid as a second instalment for 2021, provided that its owners are also managers of the activities carried out and that the persons indicated have decreased their turnover or fees in the second quarter 2021 by at least 50% compared to the corresponding period of 2019. A particular step deserves the approval of an amendment strongly desired by all the parliamentary groups, which gives greater scope to companies: this is the further extension of the start of the repayment of the capital share of the loans contracted as a result of the negative effects of the Covid-19. So we are talking in particular about mortgage moratories and loans secured by the State. Articles 24 to 28 bring changes to the discipline of the special powers exercised by the Government, therefore the so-called golden power, to safeguard the ownership structure and the management of the companies operating in sectors considered strategic and of national interest. The discipline has been further implemented by the rapporteur's amendments, as well as by the adoption of the amendment extending the golden power also to concessions of great hydropower derivation. Article 37 establishes for the year 2022 an extraordinary contribution from energy actors, to the extent of 10% of the increase in the balance between active and passive transactions from 1 October 2021 to 31 March 2022, compared to the same period between 2020 and 2021 (i.e. the so-called extra profit). On this point too, I would point out that the amending proposals will be the subject of the forthcoming decree-laws and, I imagine, in particular the decree-law aid. Article 31 lays down provisions to strengthen assistance and reception measures as a result of the war in Ukraine, following the activation of the European temporary protection mechanism. In relation to this, I would like to point out the adoption of an amendment, which is also strongly wanted by all the parliamentary groups, which provides for measures to assist unaccompanied minors from Ukraine. Article 32 contains provisions for the National Firefighters' Corps, which are further strengthened by the adoption of two amendments. Article 33 extends to the whole 2022 the employment of temporary workers, employed in the committees responsible for examining applications for international protection, and of forward contracts, used by the Ministry of the Interior for the emergence of irregular employment relationships. Finally, but only by order of article, I note the adoption of a very important amendment, aimed at allowing local authorities to use administrative surpluses to cover the increased costs of energy expenditure. Mr President, I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Senator Tiraboschi. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u26	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tiraboschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretary Guerra, I will not repeat the report that Mr Fenu has diligently done, with which there has always been a great collaboration. But I certainly want to thank the Government, in the people of the undersecretaries Guerra and Freni, for listening to us, especially in the last days that have been particularly lively and intense. Thanks also to the two Presidents of the Commission, Mr Girotto and Mr D'Alfonso, among whom there has always been great harmony which has allowed this measure to be brought home. I am not going to repeat what my colleague has already said, but I will make a few brief comments. I do not hide that in the last three or four weeks I have asked myself several times: are we in a phase of market economy or war economy? This is because in the 10th Commission we have examined two measures at the same time, the one we are discussing today and the draft competition law. I said to myself, no, we're in a phase of war economy here. This is also the reason why we are essentially approving small financial maneuvers, and the Undersecretary Guerra has told us several times: you may not find satisfaction in this measure and in this vehicle, but be careful, because there will be many more before the financial maneuver, because we are in such an unpredictable and discontinuous phase that we will certainly not stop at this measure. Up to this measure, given the sums we have already spent last year, I think we will have reached 12 billion. If we go to add the next 12 billion of the decree that should come out shortly, we will reach 23-24 billion, which is a substantial amount. This is because the government is extremely attentive to the economic and social situation, which is truly dramatic; let me consider it as an entrepreneur: this is a moment of extreme difficulty and as entrepreneurs we are particularly concerned. I say with absolute intellectual honesty that the Government, in a generous way even if with great difficulty, has also paid attention to the productive fabric with a whole series of measures on the fiscal level. I do not repeat, because my colleague has already said it very well: reducing excise duties until 8 July; differentiated tax credits between small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises; further differentiation between the so-called energy companies considered strategic and the large companies that have been extremely affected by expensive bills. All this is certainly welcomed in positive terms because the Government's response was there. Clearly it is not a sufficient answer, so we will wait for the next steps in the decree that will pass to the House. The measure, which has always been wanted with this measure, to strengthen price surveillance activity is again welcomed, because it reassures all operators to know that there is an authority that can supervise, as well as all SACE guarantees that mainly concern the business world, both with regard to the issue of the installment of energy consumption bills, and with regard to energy companies of strategic interest that until 31 December can be assisted by these guarantees. Other fiscal measures that we have appreciated are those aimed at the agriculture sector, which has been strongly affected; in particular, the payment of debts resulting from non-payment of milk quotas, an amendment which I believe the League in particular wanted and which has been welcomed. As far as tourism is concerned, as my colleague has already said, IMU tax credit is a very important measure for a sector that has not recovered at all; it has seen a minimum recovery after the pandemic, but in this situation the recovery is not yet substantial and robust. In this respect, I would like to say that we have been thinking on the platform "Booking" and we have insisted in particular that an amendment should be taken into account, which then did not pass as such for a number of technical reasons, which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance has formulated; we have very much appreciated that it could be incorporated into an agenda which, to some extent - let me say - could allow this Parliament to carry forward a reasoning on the concept of a relevant economic position within the draft competition law. It is a subject, just like that of golden power, which was initially within that bill and which we introduced in this measure, because we felt it essential to save not only the telecommunications, transport and so on, but also - as my colleague said before - the concessions of great hydropower. This is to say that a number of measures concerning this measure, which is precisely a war measure, are also contained in the so-called competition bill, which has not yet arrived here in the Senate and which we know is extremely important, in order to attract the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. A number of subjects will therefore be intertwined. A further consideration is given to the measures which have been proposed for local authorities, particularly the possibility of using the administrative surplus for current expenditure. This puts the local authorities in a less difficult situation, because we know perfectly well that all the bills have meant for those budgets of the problems not least. Then there is reimbursement to the municipalities - this is another measure that, if I am not mistaken, has wanted all the political forces of this Parliament - which welcome minors who are not accompanied by Ukraine: this attention to refugees in general, but in particular to minors (we know that they are already in large numbers and are attending schools) has certainly been appreciated. I would also like to mention the extraordinary contribution made by an amendment which the President of Alphonso wanted for the municipalities with a total population of more than 100,000 inhabitants to be founded: it is an important innovation that has been welcomed by the whole Commission, precisely because it is a way to innovate territorial cooperation between the municipalities that we know is more important. If this were then the antechamber - it is my consideration - of the next definition of macro-regions, I do not hide that it would be a good step. Some small measures have greatly affected the world of trade, such as the extension until 30 September 2022 for the occupation of public land. During the pandemic we saw that the extension of the commercial activities outside was much appreciated by the market; people love to eat out and therefore also this is certainly very important. I would like to make a brief comment - precisely because you are here, Undersecretary, and because we have listened to many categories before we arrive at a summary of this measure which is not so easy - on the extra-profit. There has been quite a lively discussion and I do not hide that I have a personal position, namely that excise duties should not contribute to forming the tax base and therefore we should not clearly calculate the tax on extra-profits on this tax base which includes the excise duty which, on the other hand, is paid, although fortunately, with this measure that reduced the rates, it was possible for the end user to pay a little less petrol. The objection that we hope the Government will take into account, because we know that within the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance there is a debate on this issue, I believe it should be taken into account in the next measure. We know that 10-11 billion should come from this outcast, there is some doubt that we can achieve these amounts to finance all these expenditures. In this particular case - clearly I don't have quantification - I don't think it affects that much. I appeal to you, Secretary, to take into account this reflection which has come from a significant part of that distribution world and which I believe must be considered in order to avoid situations which could inevitably arise, such as appeals and non-payment of this tax. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u28	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u29	Mr President, the government of the best also puts on this measure - the decree Ukraine two, which is now in the Chamber to be converted - yet another confidence, thus confirming the will to inflict yet another fatal blow on small and medium-sized agricultural and fisheries enterprises. [[Applause]] The analysis of the final text shows that once again the desperate cry of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs asking for liquidity remains totally unheard because they do not have money because of the increase in raw materials and diesel to organize the next production matter. It would be important to look at the cause and speculation behind this increase, because, as Professor Cottarelli says, the conflict in the heart of Europe has only affected this increase by 20%. So the government should also be concerned with going to see why there has been this exaggerated increase, probably the result of ongoing speculations that are justified by the conflict. The government's plan is clear now: to kill and hide the corpse of small and medium-sized enterprises, to protect and give the funds allocated to large industry groups and lobbyists. This was understood on Sunday night, when it was concluded, in the relevant Commissions, that the amendments tabled to the decree-law before us today were examined, on which, by myself and my fellow Members, the rapporteurs had been given the mandate to report orally to the Senate today in the Assembly. Of the many proposals for amendments presented in order to try to correct the throw of this decree-law, which certainly does not help small and medium-sized enterprises, a handful of them were approved, but just facade, which did not have any influence on the harmful original effectiveness of this measure. Among the amendments rejected were five at my first signature, but drawn up together with the Copoi, the Coordination of Italian fruit and vegetable producers, and the fishermen, from North to South, who do not feel represented either by trade associations or by the Government of Draghi. Certainly they will not be helped with this last decree-law farce, which still helps - as I said - the large production groups and multinationals. In particular, in the second phase of the examination of the measure in the Commissions, we decided to mention only two amendments of the four concerning small and medium-sized enterprises: the contribution in the form of a tax credit for the purchase of fuels and for the exercise of agricultural and fisheries activities and the financing - which I had again requested - of the agricultural bill. Of course, neither has passed. The second amendment, in particular, was intended to ensure sufficient liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, so that they do not close, in order to have an annual production and remain open, by introducing the possibility for those enterprises to have access to an alternative to tax credit, useful only for large companies that have made investments, which can renegotiate credit and extend it to 25 years (therefore only part of the large companies is protected). For these poor small and medium-sized enterprises there was a demand for funding, always guaranteed by Ismea, which would enable them to have the minimum amount of liquidity they are calling for loudly. By providing for an alternative benefit, equivalent to the tax credit already envisaged, the amendment would not have been burdensome either. The Dragon Government, however, again in this case, with the complicity of Minister Patuanelli, has pulled straight on his way. Not to mention Article 21! A scandalous article, which frees and provides for the use of digestate as such on agricultural land. What is digestate? The digestate is what comes out of biogas plants. But this is not so much the criminality of the article, but the fact that the last paragraph repeals article 527 wanted by the Democratic Party in the financial law of 2019, which provided that the equivalence to chemical fertilizers could not be automatic but should respect certain conditions. These included measuring nitrogen content in digestate and, above all, carrying out two analyses to be sent to the Anti-Fraud Inspectorate at the Ministry of Agriculture. This rule, which was the only guarantee that could potentially avoid poisoning soils and aquifers, has been removed, repealed. Now we are going to spread on the land a material which, however, derives from the refluxes of zootechnics and from all the residues of agriculture and the citizens are not even given to know what contains and in what quantities. The thing that worries me most is that there is a passage - because here the measures should be read and studied - in which it is said that the digestate replaces the chemical fertilizers, possibly opening the door also to a future obligatory. Today, even to do so on purpose, we had in the Commission a livestock farmer who told us - listen, because this is a testimony that must remain in the record - that, when he puts in his biodigestor the residues of cheese processing, the Veneto Region asks him 190 euros per quintal for disposal, because the Region considers these poisonous residues and therefore special waste. I told the entrepreneur not to worry, because from now on they solved the problem: immediately those residues became fertile fertilizers and could be scattered on agricultural land. This is a criminal article. [[Applause.]] If it is true that we must make the ecological transition and it is necessary, however, we must do so in accordance with the health of our citizens, our children, the land and the aquifers. I shall also present an application to the Minister for Health, because he cannot turn to the other side. The ecological transition must not weigh on the health of citizens, nor on the environment, nor must its small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, otherwise the ecological transition is not being implemented, but criminal measures are being taken. You must excuse me, Madam President, and I use this term, but hearing such a thing today in the Commission has hurt me, because we will see the danger of these measures in five, six, seven years' time when it is too late. Thank you, Madam President, and I apologise for your tone and emotion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u30	However obviously the polemic vis is absolutely admitted. Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u31	Madam President, first of all I would like to say something about the physical conditions of my previous colleague, because I have seen her particularly difficult: I hope she has not overwhelmed her excitement.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u32	Stick to the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u33	DE CARLO (FdI). It was a gesture of courtesy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Courtesy or not, comments on colleagues are obviously rejected by the Presidency. DE CARLO (FdI). I repeat, it was absolutely a gesture of courtesy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the Presidency interpret. Please, Senator De Carlo, go ahead. DE CARLO (FdI). However, we will also return to the subject of digestate, because even the vision of obscurantist and no is the one that has led to the national situation for which poor energy programming, together with the absent agricultural programming, today in fact makes us and especially our companies in constant difficulty with respect to costs that have splashed to the stars and interventions, like those provided in this decree-law, that certainly do not soothe a situation of extreme discomfort, so much so that this decree-law Ukraine... [[Brusio.]] I see your colleague's fine.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u34	Colleagues, from the side of the hemicycle to my left comes a voice that prevents you from listening with due attention to your colleague. Unfortunately, when the House is empty, if someone speaks out loud, it will seem incredible, but it feels even more. Please, Senator De Carlo, we're interested in your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u35	The Ukrainian decree-law, whose name is absolutely improper, actually drags problems that are prior to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and it is probably the attempt to remedy, at least towards public opinion, twenty years of poor, wrong or absent programming, in the field of energy, where a series of nos, which we still see repeated and disconnected from the absolute reality of the facts, have heavily conditioned the past energy policy of the nation. No to drills before, no to nuclear even before; perhaps if it made sense in the eighties, now we can safely, free from any ideology, sit down at a table and realize the energy policy of a nation without preconceptions and without ideological positions that then condition our dependence on other sources for twenty years. The ecological transition is excellent. Who is more environmentally friendly than someone who deals with the environment and therefore agriculture? I don't think so. This is why the waste cycle in agriculture must be closed through agricultural products, following all the rules to safeguard public health. I don't think anyone can question that. But the fact that the cycle of rejection and the circular economy pass also through the valorization of what then agriculture leaves is an absolutely objective fact, it is part of ecology and it is what happens normally in nature. All these repeated nos have put us in a condition of great dependence also from the exquisitely agricultural point of view, so much so that the important increases of fertilizers (170 percent), of the feed (90 percent), of the diesel (129 percent), strongly condition our enterprises, that they will find only a limited benefit compared to the burdens that they will suffer. To say it is not Luca De Carlo, who could be accused of partisanship because he is one of the senators who are in opposition, but a report of the Agricultural Research Council and the analysis of the agricultural economy (Crea), according to which 30% of farms will have a negative income. Before the crisis of these prices, which is before the invasion of Ukraine, only 7% of farms had a negative income. Among other things, there are great differences between the granivore farms, which make great use of feed, such as pig farming and perhaps even cereal farms, compared to other farms. I remind everyone that dairy farms, for example, are remarkably on their knees. Many farmers today have chosen not to start the production cycle because they consider it uneconomical and do not buy pigs to make pigs. All this in an already very difficult context arising from the problem of swine fever virus. Among other things, it has been known since 2014 that it would also land in Italy, especially after the first evidence in Eastern Europe. This problem was given a limited response with poor programming, without going to the heart of the question, concerning the containment of the number of wild boars that were the true viaticum of transmission of the virus. I would remind everyone, first of all to myself, that the Senate Agriculture Committee itself had tabled a resolution to contain the number, which was voted on last year, well in advance of when swine fever occurred. I leave aside the considerations of those who see a wild boar feeding their puppies in the center of Rome, giving it a bucolic and almost affective vision, seeing it as a form of restoration by the nature of the spaces that man has taken from it. That is the failure of environmental policies, because a wild boar forced to wander in the waste of the city center is a wild boar that no longer has a space on which to live in its natural environment. So we can't pretend that the cause has become the problem. That is where we should act, but - I repeat - we must act not with the belly, but with the programming. It is not the immediate consensus that will give answers to energy and agricultural policies. It's programming, what's good for the nation today. What we decide today could be unpopular, but it could also be what our children will need in 20 years' time. So let's stop running behind the easy consensus of those who like most on a post and focus on what needs to be structural interventions. We certainly cannot do this alone - it is true - but we must do it in Europe with what has hitherto been a political dwarf and a bureaucratic giant that has not facilitated the national states, but - indeed - has put the poles in the way of their development. I am referring to those who have decided knowingly that we should no longer produce in Europe, especially in the agricultural sector, and that raw materials should be bought where they were cheaper and the same policy as the one that dismissed this attitude as naïve. This was not a naïve attitude, but the failure of twenty years of agricultural policies in Europe, which also heavily influenced our producers. Think of the question of milk quotas, which are now the subject of an amendment to this measure. Our requirements are only covered by 85% of domestic production; 15% is milk we take from abroad. How is it possible that programming was right? How is it possible that - to date - the value of that milk is paid in an anti-economic way? A study of the Crea shows that the cost of producing a litre of milk is 46 cents of euro (this before the war in Ukraine), while the one that was cleared under normal conditions, except where there are DOP productions such as Grana Padano, is between 38 and 39 cents of euro. Is this a sale below cost? Yes, it is. Is this a system that can structurally stand? No, it's not. Doing these interventions is almost like trying to shovel evil with a glass, without acting structurally where there are our great shortcomings. I believe that the great structural reforms can be done not with a government within which there is everything and the opposite of everything, but only with a government (whether on the one hand, or on the other) that has a clear agenda, a vision of the world over the next twenty years. We do not need a government that follows the consensus or - worse still - the maintenance of its status quo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u36	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u37	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Presidency and Mr Perosino for their kindness in allowing me to speak before him. I will take a few minutes from the Presidency, colleagues and representatives of the Government. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Tiraboschi, for the work that has been done in recent weeks in the Commission, a difficult and complicated work that has seen moments of encounter, confrontation and deepening on significant and important issues. Sometimes it was thought that common sense should reign, while - on the contrary - it reigned, it was not well understood what, perhaps a kind of fruit salad between ideological and technical-bureaucratic issues to which we are frankly quite accustomed. We in Forza Italia will vote in favour of the measure, but we cannot pretend that nothing has happened. On a subject that is particularly close to my heart with regard to tourism (which I deal with in my private life, but also as a national manager for Forza Italia) we have tried to address one of the thorniest issues of recent years, namely the relationship between bookings, which once concerned only the hotel rooms, while now we book everything online (from boats, bicycles and everything around the holidays). Of all this we are rightly enthusiastic as users (I am from both sides, because I am a user and I am an entrepreneur), because just press a button and we get to the booking right away. Great. Only that behind all this world there are Italian companies, there are the tourism companies, of every sector, from the restaurant to the bar, to the hospitality, to the services, to the transport (tourist buses, the NCCs), that, every time this finger goes on the online reservation, they see reduced from their turnover a figure that varies between 15 and 23 percent, sometimes even 30 percent of the value of the reservation. All right, what's the problem? The online portal spreads our tourist products around the world, offers each of us the opportunity to have them purchased all over the world. So it's a good thing, good. We choose to be on those portals, businesses choose to be on those portals. So what's the problem? The problem is that Forza Italia told the Government: in addition to Italian companies, which obviously benefit from the service, work and give employment, only in tourism, to almost four million people, we see if those lords of the portals also pay taxes in Italy. We know they don't pay in Italy. But what's the big deal? After that finger on that button made the reservation, the commission calculation takes place not only on the taxable, but also on VAT, because the price is VAT included, because the Italian companies pay VAT with the F24, which is not an airplane. It hurts the same, but it is not an airplane; it is a document that the 16th of the month is used to pay taxes. So what's going on? It happens that 20% of commission is paid on this general amount; we also pay the commission on the VAT we pay to the State. We have therefore proposed that it be separated. But there's more. Online portal companies, which invoice our companies, because they reside in Holland or in European tax havens, do not make the invoice with the VAT on display. So the tourist entrepreneur in general not only pays 20% of the VAT that he will then have to pay to the State, but, when he receives the invoice from the online portal, he does not even have the VAT on display to be able to download it. Only last year there were five billion reservations. Make the check: at 10%, there are 500 million, plus the percentage on VAT, that the entrepreneur found himself on the shoulders and had to pay us the commission. It is about 600-700 million VAT, which no one has ever seen. We had proposed that they pay for it or cut it down and put a roof on the commission. Nothing, I disagree with everything. Then I came to say that the government kneels in front of the online portals and cares about Parliament and the Italian companies that pay taxes. In the end we brought home a half order of the day, which, as my teachers taught me, never denies anyone (let's imagine ourselves). I should like to thank my Group President, the rapporteur and all the Members who have worked in the Commission, as well as Mr Lannotti and Mr Dessì, who wanted to sign this agenda, to make it clear that it is a choral agenda and is an interest of Parliament. We arrive at the Commission with the task done by the bureaucrats of the Ministry and our illustrious - to whom my thanks go, because frankly, as our Lord said from the cross, "Lord forgive them, because they do not know what they do" - come and give negative opinion. And, to the question, "Why?" they respond "because the Revenue Agency disagrees" or "because the Finance Guard has expressed an opinion against it." So what are we doing here, ma'am? The citizens who elected us ask us to intervene on these obvious distortions, because the Government and Parliament allocate billions; we do important works, we do manoeuvres to support the economy when nothing really would be enough, and I stress that. It would be enough to enforce the rules for companies that come fishing. Once it was said: let's not give him the fish, let's give him the cane, and we gave him the cane too long because from Amsterdam with the cane so long they come to fish in the Italian pond, they take away the fish and we don't even see the shade anymore, because there is not even a return from an occupational point of view if not some VAT contractor who goes around the structures and makes contracts in the companies. I am for the free market, I am for freedom, so that companies can decide whether or not to make use of these patterns of trade. But we need equity. If a particular yacht charterer or bar or restaurant takes a reservation, he rightly pays the commission, it is right that the VAT is downloaded [[Applause]] , as it is right that the intermediary company pays taxes here. Try going for an operation like this somewhere else! I have an activity abroad and if I have operations on another territory I have to pay taxes. This is the theme. So, I feel totally dissatisfied; The government doesn't even know what we talked about, but for God's sake, that's all we need! I repeat the quote: "Forgive them, for they do not know what they do." I believe that we should pay some attention and not kneel before the big multinationals, who come, fish and leave without a trace. One last recommendation: Parliament is sovereign over the Government; in my opinion and in our view, the political role it plays on behalf of the citizens must have a greater value than a simple head of the cabinet or an official of the Ministry, albeit important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to make three fundamental points among the many results that we have brought home together. The first - I thank my colleague Marti, who is here next to me, because we have brought him home together - is the extension until 30 September of the outdoor spaces for bars, restaurants and public establishments, which will be able to take advantage of the summer season, of course after payment, but they will be jobs, they will have entered for the companies; I think it is a way to support a production system towards restarting. We were asked from all over Italy, especially from the tourist resorts and art cities. Another important result that looks to the future is that it will finally allow the Italian airfields (there are more than 600) to create fuel distributors: this can, on the one hand, reduce the impact of the costs of the fuel; on the other, allow to have greater safety, but above all to develop a sector that abroad, especially in Germany and Spain, produces important repercussions on the territory. The third result that I would like to stress - out of respect, I say that it has been signed by colleagues from all the parliamentary groups, by majority and opposition, with strong support also from the Government - concerns the national system of environmental protection. It was born in 2017, it is not the sum of individual bodies and regional environmental agencies, but it is something more: a network system. Well, there were two basic twists, the first of which was on staff. When people went to block public employment and recruitment - of course we were not there - it was done in a linear way, and the municipalities know something about it. Well, the assumption of ARPAs has been blocked. Now they can assume 25% more and go to fill up, with fundamental figures, such as engineers and specialized technicians, what is needed to protect the environment, safety, health and to complete the PNRR, given all the competences we have given to the ARPA, doing so in a concrete way, because to defend the environment it is not enough to insert it Constitution. I would like a minute more time to highlight something that is not right, despite the fact that the entire Parliament and the entire Government were in favour, for a surreal interpretation of the State Accounting: I ask the Presidency to listen carefully. Under Law No. 68 of 2015 environmental crimes have been introduced, in defense of all. Well, an important task has been given to ARPAs, who have completed it: there are many sanctions imposed, despite the shortage of staff. The ARPA imposed fines and collected them: we speak of 3,177,000 euros in 2017, 5,402,000 euros in 2018, 4,489,000 euros in 2019, 3,772,000 euros in 2020. 2021 is missing, but we speak in all of almost 20 million euros, but they cannot spend, because it says that the ARPA does the fines and collects them, but it doesn't say that the ARPA can spend. There are therefore EUR 20 million that we could devote to environmental protection: just as ASL collects safety fines on workers from those who do not respect safety and can spend them on the basis of Legislative Decree No. 758 of 1994, the same cannot be done by ARPAs. There is still money and it is someone's responsibility if we cannot spend money on health and environmental protection: so let us also solve the issue of this second part of the amendment, signed by everyone and which the State Accounting Office did not want us to approve, on a purely interpretative issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u40	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u41	Mr President, there are a number of things in this decree-law that have left me very perplexed. I have to criticize all my colleagues, because I do not think that enough sensitivity has been shown to the subject of expensive bills and gas. Let me explain better: we are approving a lot of measures, maneuvers and actions aimed at reducing the burden for families linked to bills, especially gas. However, we could have concentrated more on finding a solution at the source, at the root of the problem. I say this because, currently, in the bill, we are paying the share of energy related to gas about 90 euros. In fact, those who import gas in Europe do so at prices ranging from 17 to 20 euros, with peaks of 64 euros for a marginal part of gas coming from other places: I am referring in fact to the gas coming from Russia, Algeria and also Azerbaijan. In short, we have very low prices, even in comparison with our European partners, that gas pays even more. I am sure of what I am saying, because I have read it in a very important document, namely the European Commission's Bulletin on the gas market, which comes out quarterly. The last one, which I could see, concerns the last three months of 2021, when the dear energy was already in place. We also have the counterproof, because in Italy we have a large importer, ENI, who has ten times its profits. So, if they could tell us before that they made these profits elsewhere and not on the gas, now they too have been forced to admit that the profits make them precisely thanks to the increase in the share of gas energy. So, ladies and gentlemen, we could have focused on finding a solution to this problem and making it possible for importers to be in some way favored, benefited and guided by the possibility of balancing the price of gas at source. This can be done, because it already happens on the electricity market, where we have a single buyer, who buys energy and that is the reference. Same thing we could do on the gas. We could safely say that there is a single operator: we already have the GME that manages the gas market in Italy; it could be the accelerator and make sure that it buys gas from importers at a certain price and sells it to operators. There were two amendments in this measure that said that the reference price of gas could be lower than the very high price, which we know well, of the Dutch TTF quotation, which - I remind everyone - is the quotation used to determine the price of the energy share of gas on our bill, or compared to the import price. These amendments were ignored because they were probably thought to be difficult to apply. But I repeat: we already have an amendment approved to the House which gives the ARERA the opportunity to establish the price of gas also with reference to the real price of the raw material. We had an amendment, which could be adopted, which asked to refer to the import price, so the original cost of the raw material, and then we have a system that already works: the electric one on the single buyer. We have the GME operating in the gas market and could have safely performed this function. Colleagues, it seems to me that the will to do so is lacking; we prefer to make sure that the ENI continues to tenfold its profits and we prefer to tax the extra profits as we are doing now, perhaps even reaching 25%, but still remain too useful to the benefit of a few operators. That is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, so I would ask you to do everything possible to ensure that, with regard to the next measures that we will be considering, a solution is found at the source. Our citizens don't need the help to pay the bill, but they need the bill to cost less, and I think the conditions for it are there. So I really beg you to do everything you can to implement such a measure. [[Applause]] There are two other points that I do not like in this decree-law. The first is that referred to 5G, of which our colleague Sergio Romagnoli has dealt a lot: an amendment that allows operators who build towers not to deposit the documentation that up to now have always had to deposit for the installation of towers and towers for the 5G. We are puzzled by this: if they have had to do so until now, why should they no longer do so now, especially considering the arrival of a very important technology for our telecommunications? The 5 Star Movimento is in favour of technologies, telecommunications and digitalization, but it cares about the health of citizens [[Applause]] , so even if it can be imagined to redo the trellis that it is not necessary to provide the documentation that proves compliance with the regulations on electromagnetic fields, in our opinion it is useful that there is a reference to this data. Otherwise, there's a risk of harm. Then there is another rule that unfortunately left me very perplexed, the one on public executives; I have already dealt with it in the last parliamentary term. We know of a famous sentence that has declared some executives of the Revenue Agency illegitimate. Many other issues have then crossed over, but there is a rule in this provision that will stabilise as executives of officials. I don't think that's right. In our public administration we have very good, extremely competent and very good people who can play more important roles, but in this way we stabilise civil servants in the role of executives, in my opinion, is not correct. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u42	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u43	Mr President, after Decree-Law No 17 of 2022 on energy, with which we have allocated EUR 6.7 billion in resources, here is an important measure: Decree-Law No 21 on Ukraine, with an initial budget of EUR 3.6 billion, and following the Government's amendment adding an additional EUR 2.3 billion, for a total of almost EUR 6 billion. This is a measure which contains important measures - in addition to the Presidency of the Council, there are nine ministries involved - to adequately support the Italian system: the reduction of oil and petrol prices, the reduction of excise duties, the fuel bonus for employees, the tax credit for companies, the social bonus on electricity and gas. There are important issues such as the installment of bills, the transfer of tax credits, wage integration, measures to support road haulage, agriculture, fisheries, tourism and all public bodies. On the subject of agriculture, the measure introduces, in Article 19, an important novelty in the field of aid and support to the sector, financing the renegotiation or restructuring of agricultural loans: an aspect that affects many of the more than 720,000 agricultural enterprises active in our country, that will be able to count on an intervention under guarantee up to 5 million euros. The fund was refinanced for 20 million euros by Ismea and there was also a shared amendment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy that had made available an additional 80 million euros, on which however there was no positive feedback from the General Accounting of the State. However, we have the reasonable certainty, reading the drafts, that the fund will be refinanced in the aid decree-law, already approved in the Council of Ministers, for an additional EUR 100 million, so as to bring a total guarantee that exceeds almost EUR 2 billion only for the agricultural sector and this becomes important. This article, aimed at generating greater liquidity for businesses, has been made an important modification, which comes after years of absurd battles and judgments not always corrected on the subject refunds from fines deriving from milk quotas. In Italy in 2021 we imported about 621,000 tons of milk; the comparison between production and consumption is at 88 percent. We grew up: until 2018 it was 78 percent, 10 percent more, but still 12 percent missing. So why, despite the growth in this sector, which is increasing in quantity and quality, are there many farmers still in dispute over the payment of milk quota fines? With our amendment to Article 21, which implements the reopening of the time limits for the payment of these fines, we provide a clear indication to the thousands of producers involved and close a dark page of our country's livestock history, which has seen the imposition of limits on milk production by the European Union, without taking into account how our production has always been less than consumption requirements in Italy. Our amendment allows for the reopening of the time-limits for sixty days, thus activating the co-active collection phase by the Revenue Agency, giving companies the opportunity to adhere to the installment that they could have benefited from in the first debiting phase. This would cover more than 3,000 companies - not a few - for a total amount of more than 800 million euros: on the one hand it would allow debtors to pay their damages without facing a co-active collection procedure, also allowing them to access the benefits of public administration and, on the other hand, the administration to increase the level of recovery without bearing the burdens of enforcement procedures. Therefore, this amendment, bringing debt restructuring to twenty-five years, generates liquidity to address this issue, bearing in mind that those who have fines that exceed 300,000 euros can install them in twenty or thirty years with a single annual payment. We considered it as a League that it was necessary to combine the indications coming from Europe - without denying the excesses, when necessary - with the demands of the Italian producers. Another important issue for us is climate change. The decrease of 35 percent in rainfall on most of our peninsula hits with the entry into force, from 1 January 2022, of the legislation on ecological outflow, which replaces the one in place at 31 December 2021 on the minimum vital outflow. The theme of the releases in the beehive, in the summer period, becomes fundamental in order to be able to implement the agricultural crops, as foreseen by the modification, on the land at rest of the CAP for about 200,000 hectares more for our country. We approved a resolution from the Agriculture Commission in this House on 26 April last - and I thank my colleagues - in order to ask for an extension of the entry into force of this restrictive measure. As the Lega Group, we tabled an amendment to Article 21 to ensure that the resolution passed to a binding rule that could enter into force before the summer period, which is also very dear to our agriculture. The amendment was endorsed by the Commission. The delicate geopolitical moment we are experiencing requires measures to deal with the economic effects of the international crisis in progress, taking into account the agri-food needs, especially production. Trials are therefore important, but it must not enter into force by 2025, because it will certainly create problems for our agriculture. Other measures have been introduced on this issue, including some important also for the pig chain, for the reduction of costs, to implement the draft legislative decree on unfair practices. We are witnessing strong tensions in the commodity market, dictated above all by the role that uncertainty generates in relation to food supply scenarios. The extraordinary peak in raw material prices has also worsened the living conditions of the weakest sections of the world's population, limiting their access to indispensable resources such as food and energy. The surge in prices over this last period has been the highest in recent decades due to intensity and duration. Think that the peak reached in the first quarter 2022 is higher than the peaks 2007-2008 and also at the level reached in the seventies of the last century in the midst of the oil crisis. One of the points to highlight is that there is an almost identical trend between cereals, oil and sugar, so uncertainty reigns over all commodities. This uncertainty affects farms and leads them to have to think more broadly and also in a different way, in a more efficient and effective way. The primary sector must immediately familiarise itself with new and mutual financial instruments, in order to gain access to income stability, which becomes fundamental. We must not waste any more time to intervene both on simplifications and on support, to give certain answers to a supply chain such as agri-food that certainly, in the light of the strategic role it plays for the country's economy, deserves immediate and concrete answers from this Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u45	18.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u46	Mr President, just a few days ago I was speaking in this House in the context of the general debate on the energy decree, which preceded in terms of measures introduced the content of the decree under discussion today, which is already partly exceeded by the new aid decree recently fired by the Council of Ministers. As for the pandemic, and even more so, an armed conflict in the heart of Europe and the dear energy are emergencies to be faced without hesitation. We were the first to have to give answers to a global pandemic of which nothing was known yet and I believe that on that occasion the government led by President Conte has shown resolve and close to the problems of the citizens. It has done so not with words, but with concrete measures, financed through different budgetary deviations that have saved thousands of businesses and allowed millions of citizens to overcome a time of extreme difficulty. [[Applause]] But we did not limit ourselves to this, because against general scepticism we managed to bring the difficulties that our country was going through at the European tables, where they are thanks to the perseverance of the Movimento 5 Stars we brought home the recovery fund. What we are facing in recent months is also an unprecedented situation. For some sectors, on the contrary, the situation is much worse than that generated by Covid. Yet - and I am not without regret - I do not see the same diligence on the part of the Government in seeking in every way to solve the problems that afflict businesses and citizens. Of course, in this decree, as in the decree that preceded it, there are many measures worthy of note, but certainly not sufficient. The situation we are going through requires extraordinary measures and interventions. Fortunately, after a first phase in which perhaps the economic risk for our country had been underestimated, the Government has decided to listen to us and adopt measures increasingly extraordinary, reaching the recent allocation of 14 billion contained in the decree aid, certainly a very important step forward but still insufficient, especially in view of the lack of structural measures that can make us more autonomous from the energy point of view. Some will argue that it is simple to give ex post judgments. You see, ladies and gentlemen, what we support today with regard to national energy policy, we supported it many years ago: we have been talking about the importance of focusing on renewable energy, starting a progressive abandonment of fossil fuels. If only we had started this journey since the 5 Star Movement brought this issue to Parliament, I can assure you that we would not be in this situation today. [[Applause]] With regard to the substance of the measure we are debating today, I do not hide the great satisfaction with the adoption of the amendment to my first signature establishing a system for interchange of pallets. Although this is a little known topic for citizens, I assure you that for the logistics-food sector it represents a real revolution, which I will try to explain briefly. The goods destined for large distribution are transported on wooden pallets called pallets, which represent a not indifferent business cost, especially if multiplied by the quantity of goods sent. In the delivery of the goods, this asset was increasingly destroyed, dispersed or stolen, with significant economic damage borne by the previous owners who often, as a weak contractual part in the supply relationship, found themselves having to bear this loss. Also remarkable was the environmental impact of a system in which one had little interest in recovering a pallet not of its own property. Thanks to the new rules introduced within this decree-law, the company, without express dispensation of the owner or the client, is obliged to return the equal amount of pallets received, or to issue a voucher attesting the debt that, after six months from the issue, will have to be paid. In this way the shipper will have the interest to keep in good condition the pallet to be returned and the State, without any increase for the public finance, will have given its decisive contribution to support the weakest contractual part, putting an end to absurd abuses. What is generated is in fact an interchange system placed under the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Development. The approval of this text must be a source of pride for all of us, because with this rule the policy has proved concretely to have at heart the demand of thousands of producers and companies in the food and logistics chain, which finds synthesis in this very norm. I would like to thank all my fellow Members, from those who have decided to sign the amendment, to those who, sharing the spirit, have supported it, in particular undersecretary Pichetto Fratin. This rule is a victory that each of us will be able to boast of. I would like to start with the conclusion of my speech by recalling other measures introduced thanks to the combined provisions of the Decree-Law currently under discussion and the Decree-Law on aid, such as the increase in the tax on extra-profits for energy companies and the measures intended to support energy companies, i.e. textiles, paper, glass and ceramics, sectors which, more than others, are bearing the economic consequences of increases and for which additional forms of ad hoc support are needed. It is not enough to take action to prevent further blockages of production that have marked the last few months of activity, but a new industrial development plan is needed that takes account of market price developments until the emergency can be completely overcome. I will really conclude with a reflection. I've learned that people can forget what you said, maybe someone in this House hasn't listened to me either; people can forget what they did and don't recognize the merits, but people will never forget how we made them feel. We are here to solve the problems of the citizens, we are here for the common good and the general interest. We at Movimento 5 Stars want people to make them feel good and we will continue to make us feel here and out of here. We want to be heard. Our President invites us not to make unrealizable promises, but in the face of possible obstacles must be removed without whether or not. Long live us, live all of us! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u47	The Giunta per il Regolamento, meeting today, 10 May 2022, delivered the following opinion: The President of the Senate is required, in order to ensure the smooth running of parliamentary work, to carry out the necessary formalities for the renewal of the body, in the analogy of Article 21 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, to take note of the resignation of twenty members of the 3rd Permanent Commission for Foreign Affairs, Emigration, and of the simultaneous unwillingness of the Groups to designate its substitutes. Groups are therefore invited to carry out their respective nominations by Friday 13 May, at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u49	Madam President, fellow senators, members of the Government, as a group, we have tried in any way to improve this bill by tabling many amendments, as we did when we examined other measures. These are proposals that arise from listening to the citizens, to the productive categories, to the civil society actors, who come from the real country and who, alas, in many cases have been ignored. The impression is that, at least in part, an opportunity has been lost to carry out a measure that would have really reached the heart of the problem and would have given back breath to many categories. Courageous measures are needed, and that is what we are asking for. We will vote in favour of this bill for a sense of responsibility: it is a measure that tries to temporarily buffer the situation and, in a minimal way, a part of the criticalities and urgency of the country. These are non-resolutionary measures. In the future we need a measure in which the Government takes care of all the emergencies, trying to lower the costs of the raw materials that increase, to take care of the workers, starting from the fragile subjects, from their families and I am referring to the many Italian families that, because of the increases in the cost of living, can no longer reach the end of the month. Turning to the measure under consideration, there is one aspect that I would like to stress in relation to which, as a group, we have tabled specific aid proposals on several occasions. I am referring to the theme of the municipalities in failure: I am thinking of my city, Terni, administered today by the League and the center-right, but victim of a previous bad administrative management, which caused the breakdown of the agency. Like Terni there are Potenza and other municipalities, which face the difficult situation of an inherited disaster. Anyone in this House who has been a local administrator and has had the honour, like me, to represent the citizens as city councilman, city councilman or first citizen, knows the difficulties they encounter every day in managing a city. Local administrators make daily mortal jumps, with mirabolous enterprises, to manage the complex municipal machine with the few means available. The normal and multiple criticalities of an administration have been exacerbated by the pandemic and more recently by the war in Ukraine and institutions are very hard to carry out everyday activities and to guarantee citizens even minimum services. It is already considerably difficult and complex to carry on the ordinary administration: imagine what it can mean to manage a municipality in economic failure at a time like this, characterized by many risk factors. Well, even in this draft law, as on many other occasions, we have tabled more amendments in order to help the municipalities in failure. In this case, our amending proposal has been transformed into an agenda. I am aware that the economic commitment to this type of municipality is very costly, but I believe that the Government's task must also be this. The Central Executive must provide local administrators with the tools to be able to govern and manage the institution at its best: it is a duty to which the Government cannot escape. The failing municipalities should be a priority, because the citizens, the services offered to them and their quality of life should be a priority. I would have preferred that the Government had already taken charge of the provincial capital municipalities that are experiencing this particular economic situation. However, I welcome the commitment that has finally been given to us by the Finance and Treasury Commission with responsibility. The Commission will include in the first useful measure the proposal of the League aimed at preventing municipalities, such as Terni and Potenza, from going into default. An appreciable result that confirms the great commitment of my party and that strengthens our closeness to the needs of the territories. One aspect of this measure that I would like to stress is the work done. I can only welcome the adoption of our amendment, which will allow more than 100,000 people to continue working. It is thanks to this amendment that it becomes possible to exceed the time limit of employment beyond the twenty-four months of workers engaged under an indefinite employment contract by the Employment Agency and sent on a temporary mission to the same company, with the extension until 30 June 2024 for workers engaged under an indefinite employment contract by the Employment Agency without this determining the user to establish an indefinite employment relationship with the employee administered. This eliminates what was in fact an obstacle to the continued employment of the workers being administered. The need to postpone the entry into force of the 24-month limit to 30 June was to save at least 100,000 jobs put at risk by the employee turnover and the introduction of this time limit. (18.22) (Alexandrini followed). I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his valuable work for his work and social policies, Senator Tiziana Nisini, who, among other things, summoned a Table to the Ministry to find a solution with all the representative associations involved. I would also like to thank the entire Group of the League for its efforts in this situation, too, to ensure that this amendment is also accepted. A valuable job even more for 100,000 families. It is thanks to the League to the Government that these goals have been achieved and this is also the real meaning and motivation of our presence in the Executive: to improve the quality of life of Italians. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u50	Mr President, from a decree-law that has such a fanciful title, cuts prices, we would have sincerely expected much more, especially for Italian companies and families that are now exhausted. Perhaps the measure in our examination tries to do something clearly also with reference to expensive energy and expensive bills, but it does so, as always, in a very mild and temporary way without having a solution in the medium and long term, therefore always using buffer solutions. You have extended the cut in excise duties on fuels, and we are clearly very pleased about that, but this does not solve the problem underlying the speculation on prices that exists and is very clear. The theme of speculation was not raised by the Brothers of Italy party, but your Government and in particular your ministers Cingolani and Patuanelli. If you have identified the source of this problem for more than a few months now, why do you keep looking? Honestly, we still can't understand it. You have extended from April to June the possibility of indemnifying electricity and gas bills; even this is only a palliative intervention because installment certainly does not solve the problem. Postponing and delaying a payment does not mean in any way reducing the extent to which the same payment is imposed on Italian households and companies. We would also have expected more effective action on this issue. It is therefore clear that you know how to put only patches to these interventions without reaching what we have always been asking for since the beginning of the pandemic emergency and the beginning of the conflict: structural solutions, which are not there and it is not even predictable that they can be there. With this decree-law allowed to pay the bills in installments, with the next intervention you will give 200 euros to pay the bills and do the shopping. A measure that costs €6 billion in public contributions. This figure is added to the EUR 7 billion allocated in the budget law to make that ephemeral operation. We agree when it comes to reducing taxes, but we are talking about EUR 7 billion to reduce the Irpef rates by 2 points and no one has noticed the tax savings you have always talked about. It is, therefore, billions of euros that do not create a multiplier effect and therefore do not allow a bounce of the domestic product. What, then, about the reform of the land register, which increases the tax levy on the house? Who knows if in the next decree you will introduce the asset, so dear to the Italian left. With the measure we are considering today, we allow the municipalities with the red boxes to raise the additional Irpefs which are burdening our taxpayers. Therefore, with one hand give and with the other resume. What's the point of all this? Someone should probably explain it a little better than you've done until today. We did not expect miracles from this decree, because we do not like demagogy. However, it is clear that the problems we face have distant origins and are the children of an energy policy in the sign of extreme environmentalism, the consequence of which has been to make Italy totally not self-sufficient and dependent on imports from abroad. Someone will have to take responsibility for this. Today we hear about the total blockade of Russian oil and gas. We fully support the sanctions against Russia, but what we do not want is that, in order to hit Russia, our companies will be affected - and perhaps even sunk - by them. We therefore ask the Government not only to evaluate the possible alternatives to energy supply, but also to reverse the trend that has so far seen us take out of our home what we could have from resources that our country is certainly not short of. Italy risks paying a very high price, indeed it is already paying it, considering the families that do not arrive at the end of the third week of the month and will certainly not be able to rely on the umpteenth bonus that with this decree and with the next ones will be given. Businesses are on their knees and some - as you all know - have also stopped production. We believe that Europe cannot turn on the other side this time. We need to review the policies of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as we have said and said again, and so many of you have said, that they could not predict - and have not predicted - this new crisis due to the increase in raw materials and the war in Ukraine. Similarly, a new recovery fund is needed: an energy recovery fund to support those countries indirectly affected by the consequences of the conflict. On this we expect President Mario Draghi to put in place all his authority so that there will be a diplomatic escalation in the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine. The problem is that, in order to deal with this emergency, we would need a solid and less heterogeneous Government than there is, with a clear vision of the country and the future: everything that this Government obviously does not have. The political forces that make it up do not agree with anything. Just at a time when it would take a sense of responsibility, all they do is pick up the Commission's estate, as we have seen today. I have heard the President of the Budget Committee and some colleagues have asked if Senator Pesco has gone to the opposition. I say this to indicate the holding of this majority. As Brothers of Italy we were prophets in saying, from the first day, that this majority did not have too much way to go because it was and is too different to be together. Time is gallant man and - unfortunately - things are right. In conclusion, we will continue to denounce everything that is happening, as we are doing in recent years, particularly with this de facto monocameralism. Today we are faced with yet another vote of confidence on yet another decree coming to this House. We will always make complaints loudly and we will raise our voice to tell Italy as a whole that, while the country is struggling with the worst crisis since the post-war period, your priority is back to being a proportional electoral reform. We are talking about this these days and it seems that the Democratic Party is even willing to bring this reform to the House. You do this in order to find a way to guarantee you - because only this can serve - that armchair you did not want to separate from and that in any case in a few months you will have to leave, since the legislature is now coming to an end. We, as Brothers of Italy, do not fear the return to the polls, nor strange electoral laws. We will continue to call for a return to the vote as soon as possible, because Italy deserves a strong government that is up to the situation, and not a bunch of parties that are all and the opposite of everything and that not even an authoritative President of the Council has been able to lead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u51	Thank you for your time, Senator Calandrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u52	I communicate that, since there are many interventions, even five or seven minutes, and since there are so many people registered to speak - so we will go beyond normal times - I will be inflexible about the times and I will signal them to you first.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u53	She's enlisted to speak to Senator Ferrero for five minutes. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u54	Mr President, I will take four if I can. Dear colleagues, Government, I thank the speakers and of course the Government, in the people of the Undersecretary War and undersecretary Freni. I would also like to thank the offices for the commitment that, in the proliferation of measures for two years now, is particularly intense. But let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that in four years we have learned nothing in the management of the work. It is true that, among very diverse political forces, majority agreements become complicated. But, in any case, we should all agree that we should not be able to finish work at night, this time even in the night between Sunday and Monday. It is not a problem for us, but more than anything else it is a problem of work: the work done at night risks being not serious and leading to mistakes, which, although small, must inevitably be settled later. I will never tire of saying that at night we should sleep and not work on important measures. Having said that, it can be said that the measure in question is in the right direction. With it, the Government has begun to accept the requests received in particular by our Group and our secretary Matteo Salvini, who had not been suspicious since time had warned about the dangers of increases and energy increases. It is certainly a good start to take further wider measures. That is why I will not dwell so much on what we are going to approve in my speech. Moreover, many of the amendments we have signed, including through cross-cutting agreements, have received the Government's favourable opinion and the Commission's vote in favour. On the other hand, I would like to raise awareness of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, about what is the real plan and the institutional plan, that is, two plans that are difficult to meet. We are all aware of the increases in the cost of raw materials, energy and inevitably the shopping cart, but entrepreneurs were aware of the phenomenon of the increase of raw materials since the beginning of 2021. So, ladies and gentlemen, this epilogue was inevitable, partly because we may not have been able to hear enough. Then everything went down and was accelerated by the war, of course; but the assumptions were already evident. We need to learn to pick up the signals that the real world gives us. There is a part of this Parliament that, seeing evaders everywhere and the clever around every corner, believes that with laces and laces they hinder these twists. But that political part often does not realize that the complications of procedures do nothing but facilitate bureaucracy professionals and smart people, who know how to circumvent the rules. So listen to the entrepreneurs of those healthy companies, those companies that work honestly. Mine wants to be an appeal for the next steps. At this serious time of economic crisis it is not so important to give, but to avoid removing, to avoid collecting, as has been done for excise duties on fuels, on the other hand. Let us simplify the procedures, let us lower taxation for companies and workers, because only then will they be able to deal with the economic problems also due to the conflict, but we still do not hear them today, because they still have to come. So let's listen to entrepreneurs and families and let's all get down in reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a really necessary decree-law, because at the moment I think that all Italians are waiting for it to be able to resolve so many of the situations that we have faced with the dear raw materials. I will explain some of the speeches that have been developed within the competence of our Commission. I think - for example - to a very important amendment that aims to stimulate the railway traffic of the goods in harbour within, previewing the possibility to decrease the canons of the state property concessions on which the terminalistiche activities insist, favoring in this way a sustainable transport thanks to the use of the trains with consequent decrease of the emissions of CO2 and the congestion of the roads in the reference areas. This is an important amendment that was so much awaited, especially with regard to port areas. Then there is another very important amendment. In these months we have been faced with the dearness of materials, linked to the difficulty of finding raw materials. In the construction sector, whole yards, especially now that we are facing the shipyards of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but also at private yards, we cannot find materials, especially as regards the insulation: they do not arrive and, consequently, the yard stops and there are completely insane prices, which obviously blow up all the financial plans. Hence the great importance of an amendment to which I was first a signatory: the extension of the building permits, in order to allow more space for businesses and private citizens who are currently in a difficult position to close the yards with the deadlines of the licences. I think this is a very important measure that we have managed to bring home. Then there is the whole issue that has not been completely resolved - it will probably find solution in the next measure - on the prices to be referred to for construction works, which are to be adapted: if we had already had an updated price list in January of this year, at this date, in May, it would have been completely out of phase. However, it is regrettable that an amendment did not end well. We are faced with a forecast of 500 million for the fund of the hauliers relative to the goods section. Since this sector is currently suffering mainly from expensive fuel, excise duties and so on, it is very good that there is this fund. However, one very important category has been forgotten: the one relating to passenger transport. I am thinking of the tourist buses - for example - but also the transport of people in general, which also find themselves having to fight every day against expensive fuel and, even if they have invested in innovative means, they find themselves with methane and gas skyrocketing. Let us not forget that this category has suffered the consequences of lockdown, the stopping of all trips and I am referring not only to school ones, but to all in general; it has suffered a reduction in capacity to 50% for almost two years and now it is facing the expensive fuels, so it really does not manage to move forward. So what we asked the government was only the symbolic gesture to remember this really important category, which contains so many jobs, but it has serious difficulties and so we cannot forget them. Soon we will find ourselves to examine another decree-law always relative to the question of the excises, that it already contains an article on the road haulage, and a decree transports. I therefore hope, after what has happened at this stage, that this problem will find a solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u57	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u58	Mr President - as has already been said - the decree-law in question deals with everything related to the Ukrainian crisis, in the lives of citizens and businesses, so much so that it has been called price cuts. There are so many things present in the decree-law under consideration and so much has been the work of the parliamentary committees. I will focus on one of the many possible aspects, which concerns the extension of the golden power discipline. The discipline of golden power was essentially born in 1994 - it was then called golden share - at the time of privatisation, and was then modified during the Monti Government, following the calls of the Court of Justice of the European Union, because it was considered a little too strong and not responsive to the dictates of the European Union, even if in a written by the current undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council Garofoli, which was entitled Golden power and control of foreign investments, the same author claimed that the Court of Justice... did not condemn the golden share at its root, pointing out rather that the exercise of the related powers is compatible with the discipline of the Union. The legislation then evolved and we arrived at the golden power, which the Conte Government, in 2019, extended to the field of telecommunications and 5G. At the moment the golden power discipline has been extended further to the whole energy, transport and, of course, telecommunications sector, with an extension of the concept. This actually starts from a reasoning made during the decree-law competition and serves to extend the power of the State in defending its strategic assets mainly from speculation. There are many famous hedge funds, hedge funds, which invest with the pure goal of obtaining resources. There are many in the world and the largest, even if it is not really a hedge fund, is the US fund "BlackRock," which has 10 trillion dollars available, i.e. 10,000 billion dollars, to invest. Not to mention the "Bidgewater" fund always US, all hedge and equal to 160 billion dollars. Then there are also sovereign funds coming from Asia, such as the sovereign fund "China investment corporation," which has 800 billion dollars, and those of Abu Dhabi and Qatar. Therefore, the discipline of the extension of the golden power serves to protect the economic interest of the strategic assets of Italy, regarding the speculations that come from foreign countries, because this, unfortunately, is a world dominated by finance. We all know - and we have talked about this on another occasion - how much speculation has affected the title transfer facility (TTF) market, i.e. the market that determines the cost of gas. We have already said in the previous debate that the volume of trade and financial transactions on that market is exactly 10 times the volume of gas actually existing on the market. So, the issue of financial domination is absolutely central, and that is why we need to protect the economy, because we need work. We must put the economy that produces work and taxation at the centre, because often - as we know well - these funds have elusive systems and we must therefore combat all this. When we think about the role of Europe, we start from the reasoning about golden power to extend it to the role that Europe must have in global competition with the great giants that are beyond the Atlantic, if therefore essentially North America, and with those that are instead in the Asian part. We need a Europe that makes a difference and we need to understand how and when Europe should intervene so that we do not end the famous pot of stone between the iron pots. We need a stronger Europe. We have also made these arguments in the context of a motion tabled to the attention of all senators, in which we call for the Government to intervene in order to stimulate the ECB to become like the Fed, i.e. by including full employment in the ECB's mandate. We have a President-in-Office of the Council who has some experience with the ECB and, therefore, he can - if he wants to - certainly try to push for this. On the other hand, this means aligning the ECB's Statute with Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union. Besides, in that same motion, we were asking for a change in a diction. The European Union is defined as a highly competitive social market economy. On the other hand, we must say that it is highly competitive vis-à-vis non-EU countries, because competition between countries within the Union produces not a strengthening of the policies of the Union, but a deterioration. We all know about Germany's trade surplus. At the moment we need a stronger and more cohesive Europe. At a time like the present one, which is unfortunately war, we could reason on this very point: does a stronger Europe need more military employment or can it reason in another way? I launch a provocation: the European Union could be an area that renounces nuclear weapons. Perhaps we could reason in another way: we should learn to have the courage to reason in another way, because it is the only solution if we want to defend the interests of European citizens and businesses. As you can see, you can reason on the golden power to have a wider picture: this is what we have to do in the Senate, otherwise it doesn't make sense our work. Our work makes sense if we set it in a larger and more general context, which is always the interest of European citizens. And unfortunately, this war is not in the interests of the citizens of Europe at all. [[Applause]] This war is in the interest of others, who are certainly not the citizens of Europe. There are also other things in the measure that we are discussing and that we will presumably approve tomorrow, such as, for example, the fact that we have declared scrap iron a critical element. There was also a change in a passage in which it was said that it was necessary to notify only if the exports were made by Italian companies, as if a Turkish company could export, when we know that it is Turkey itself that competes with us on iron scrap: the marginal cost that we pay on scrap iron Turkey does. You have to understand how the marginal cost works, as we did on the gas. Having made a change actually allows us to achieve a goal. So these are small but important steps. The same applies to tax credits, which are an important innovation. Sure, we're still talking about several passages. We must presumably have the courage to return to the situation when we opened the free movement of tax credits, because it is an alternative way of intervening. This is also important. We had then tabled an amendment concerning the increase in taxation on extra-profits from 10% to 25%, and this was incorporated in the so-called aid decree-law, approved in the Council of Ministers and which we are waiting for to be published in the Official Journal. Basically, what we have to do is a system reasoning. When we try to think about the system, we understand how our political action can be a major accident on the world in which we work. Sometimes an amendment is enough to try to change the situation. I hope that we all have the courage, the will, the self-denial to really do the interests of European citizens and businesses, and especially the small ones, to make it clear that we must compete with those outside the European Union. We must have the definitive courage to understand that only together we can do something and the real competitors are those who have so much money outside the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u60	Mr President, we are dealing with the conversion into law of the Decree-Law on urgent measures to counter the economic and humanitarian effects of the crisis in Ukraine. In order to face this international crisis, a series of provisions are introduced by the Decree-Law in question to meet the exceptional requirements, in particular with regard to the performance of production activities, to contain energy prices on the Italian market and to face the situation of instability in the functioning of the national natural gas system resulting from the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. Although the work in the Commission has been very intensive, tiring and full-bodied, more than 1,421 amendments have been produced by all the parliamentary groups and the League is satisfied, although not entirely, because more can be done. The work of our Group has been strong and important on a number of themes. We are a little disappointed by small signals that the Government could perhaps have given us about situations that seem small to us, but they are great for the various sectors. I am referring, for example, to the amendment which allocated very small funds to rehabilitation centres for disabled people with heated pools, used for physiotherapy and rehabilitation in the water; then there was our amendment against the cutting of the military, which was rejected, after a negative opinion from the Government. The reduction expected from the next 1° July of another 1,000 units from the Safe Roads operation is a serious damage to our country. As a League we will continue to fight for the Forces of Order and for the safety of the Italians. In addition, the government could accept our amendment on extra profits to banks. We had strongly asked to expand the audience of the subjects called to pay the extraordinary contribution against the expensive bills. A concrete act of social redistribution was needed, increasing the taxation of extra-profits from 10% to 25% and extending it also to banks and financial intermediaries operating in the energy sector. If our amendment had been approved and accepted by the Government, it would have guaranteed revenues to the State and, consequently, the distribution of profits to millions of Italians, but also to cover the burdens to remove the distorting effects contained in the norm that penalize several companies. It would have been a gesture of social justice, a fair and necessary measure, to reduce the costs of expensive energy and to help families and businesses. It is also true, however, that other small, great signs have arrived: thanks to the work done by the Lega Group with the rest of the majority and the insistence of our party, amendments have been accepted which at this time of serious post-Pandemic crisis really help our citizens. I am referring in particular - I thank Giorgio Bergesio and the Group - to the payment of fines from milk quotas, a very important measure. In addition, we can be satisfied with the approval of the amendment in defence of our companies with regard to the exports of scrap, with which the number of subjects obliged to transmit the export information to the Ministry of Economic Development, which can carry out a clear monitoring for all the companies that want to export, including those foreign ones. This is an initiative that serves to protect our productive realities from unfair market practices that would put in serious difficulty entire sectors, from construction to steelmaking, with heavy consequences for our companies and social and employment repercussions. Another concrete response to entrepreneurs who still struggle to recover from the health and economic emergency and who forcefully ask us not to be left alone in the post-Pandemic restart is the approval of the amendment that allows - for example - bars, restaurants and public establishments in general, already considered suitable, to continue, after payment, to enjoy outdoor tables and chairs throughout the summer season, without having to produce any new request and without the municipal authorities being able to deny it. This will also serve to lighten the municipal administrations themselves, as well as the development of our activities. We are proud of these and many other results, the result of negotiations with the majority of the Government, on which I am sure we could not have affected by remaining in opposition. Mr President, I would like to conclude my speech on an issue which as a Puglia citizen interests me directly and which concerns me very much, which concerns the former Ilva. It is not possible - I say this to the comrades of this wide-ranging government path - for the PD to support an initiative of the Movimento 5 Stars, trying to vote on that amendment on the former Ilva in the Commission, which fortunately has not passed, with the opposite opinion from the Ministry of Economic Development, only for pure demagogy, as it appears clear from the press news of the last hours, yesterday and today. It is clear that the delays in reclamation operations - it should be clarified - in the areas of the former Ilva can be attributed to those who have the competence to do so, i.e. to the administration of the Commission, which we did not put. The funds for this are there, the money for the reclamations is there, but the commissioners are not carrying out the project and everything goes very slowly. The rule approved in the decree has been widely discussed with the Presidency of the Council and with all parties of this majority present in the direction booth. The objective of the Government and Minister Giorgetti is to accelerate the process of decarbonisation, which is necessary in the interest of the city of Taranto, aimed at efficient productivity of a key sector of our economy, especially in this historical period, with the increase of prices and the lack of raw materials. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, Decree-Law No 21 is also called the Ukraine Decree in our examination, and this gives me the opportunity to speak briefly about Ukraine, about what Italians think about it according to surveys, but especially about the people we are here. I think I can say, at best, that the Italians think that in these hours Biden gives orders to Draghi, that Stoltenberg gives orders to Zelensky telling him not to give up Crimea, but Ukraine is not part of NATO. It seems to me that the West wants to enter war at all costs and no one talks about diplomacy - I remember Kissinger's, secret but effective - except for the Pope. The West seems to me to be insane, and I say this in this House with deep conviction and fear. So much effort has been made in this decree to help all the categories affected by the increases that are simply crazy: temporal and partial reduction of excise duties; tax credits for companies with negotiable credits, which however become public debt; possibility to ask managers to install bills in twenty-four months, but unfortunately, after a few months, instead of having only one bill if they have two. The excise duties on which VAT is paid are partly sterilized, but they are the problem of problems. I think that we should try - and I say this modestly and quietly to the Government - to sterilize excise duties for a year - according to my calculations, the cost is 15 billion - and this should be done immediately with a deviation, because the deviation before or after it will have to be done, so that prices are reduced at source and subsidies should not be paid later. We must think of a reduction in costs and prices or a lower increase in prices, because perhaps we will never go back to the prices before. It is necessary to sterilize excise duties for a year, with all that comes from them, because in the economy it is necessary to cool, to lengthen the times, to give certainties. The famous 110% bonus for single-family villas and to reach 30 percent is extended from 30 June to 30 September and perhaps it is still little: if we all buy the same items, then because of speculation, manufacturing difficulties or the international context, prices increase in percentages that we cannot even say or repeat. My advice is to have the courage to make a maneuver. How can municipalities save money on public lighting bills? There are attempts to turn off some streetlights, but this device would cost more than saving. It is proposed to allow the administration surplus to be used to pay the bills, but how would anyone who does not have it? The modest refreshments that have been attributed - modest because it cannot be done more - are so much per inhabitant; for example, Decree-Law No 17 allocates about 5 or 6 euros per inhabitant, but the small municipalities of 100 inhabitants cannot receive 300 or 400 euros. Article 23 of the decree-law in question deals with the price review, a subject that is very close to my heart. Firstly, there is a problem on which we must agree: the price review relates to the work under way, for which the contracting undertakings of the contract point out that there has been an increase of more than 8%. However, for works that are in executive design, and therefore clearly in pre-contracting, it is not expected and contracting stations cannot go ahead. It must therefore also be provided for in this case. I had tabled amendments concerning the price lists, with the request for suspension for one year and for the extension of the end of work for one year, but I was opposed to a refusal with justifications which I only share in part. Mr President, Senator Gallone gives me two minutes. I also proposed that VAT on public works should be reduced from 22% to 4%, and given the war situation, the European Union should also be approved. 18% would have allowed... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u63	Senator Perosino, you've run out of time. We're not in a market and, by the way, we'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u64	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Let's all really put ourselves around a table... president. The problem is that you cannot ask for five minutes and then prepare for an intervention that lasts ten minutes. PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). All right, and then I'll finish my speech. We have to find a square for the future of Italy, otherwise we will have worse problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u65	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u66	Mr President, there are two ways to face a gigantic wave that comes at you: either you stand still and get overwhelmed, or you take a table and you ride the wave. The measure under discussion, together with the precedents and future ones that will arrive, could really be that table to ride the immense wave that formed with the advent of the pandemic and that is now reaching its maximum height because of a war that we hope will end soon. We at Forza Italia have made many proposals that concern the fuel bonus of employees by employers, the simplification in the construction or replacement of photovoltaic systems and the strengthening of the program of improvement of the energy performance; the extension of the work of the superbonus to 110% to other building bonuses; the extension of simplifications in the matter of authorizations and concessions of the public soil, because this means using the equipped structures, like the dehors, to share the economy and tourism; support measures for the theatrical sector and many others. Given that time is short and short, I say that we would have wanted to do much more, but unfortunately the State Accounting Office and the offices hold back many proposals that we thought were appropriate. However, we are satisfied, as far as I am concerned, with allowing existing biogas plants to maximize electricity production even if they exceed the permissible power limit. And this will be very useful especially for agricultural companies that, under self-consumption, will be able to use more renewable energy. We are happy with the reimbursement to the municipalities that receive unaccompanied minors - I am referring to those 100 euros per day that will allow them to maintain them - provided for in a transversal amendment, which is also shared, such as the one in which the municipalities are also expected to use administrative surpluses to cover the burdens arising from the increased energy costs. I too spend a word - as my colleague Simona Pergreffi has already done before - on a sector that continues to be forgotten, even just as a recognition of the category: I am referring to the tourism bus sector, which has suffered - as has been mentioned - a great damage precisely because of the pandemic and which today, even during the war, has proved to be very valuable. It is in fact these buses that, in a voluntary and autonomous way, have made themselves available to bring to Ukraine the basic necessities for people at war, bringing back also many refugees and displaced people. We cannot therefore have generous people, who do such acts, who are then forgotten. Hence the appeal from me too: we cannot think today of suffering this wave, going towards energy poverty, without giving support, and not from an economic point of view, because we know what the country needs right now. Italy needs certainty for the business world; it needs simplification; it needs the Government and the State to let those who know how to do what they can do. We will not tire in this moment of reaffirming those who are for us battle horses on the issue of simplification, such as flat tax; the theme of the cost of labour and therefore of the tax wedge; the theme of the re-introduction of the voucher system, because all the refugees who are arriving today in Italy, and have the legitimate hope - and we hope with them - to be able to return to their country, need to work and must be able to do it in a flexible and slim way. I warmly thank Senator Tiraboschi for the valuable and important work she has done as rapporteur, because of course having an attentive rapporteur, who listens to the requests and is able to sum up, is very important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u67	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u68	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this price-cutting decree has been the sixth measure since the second half of last year, which provides for measures to deal with expensive energy and expensive fuel. To date, the total amount is 22 billion, of which more than 5 in this decree. Compared to expensive energy, these are in summary the measures introduced in the measure. First of all there is the reduction until next July 8 of excise duties on petrol, diesel and LPG: a measure that makes us particularly satisfied, since the League, with a motion at the beginning of March, was the first political force to urge the Government to introduce it. Contributions were then raised in the form of a tax credit for energy and gas companies, for the increased costs incurred in the purchase and use of electricity and gas. For the first time, the tax credit for higher electricity and gas costs by small and medium-sized enterprises was introduced. Also important is the tax credit of 20% for the purchase of fuels in the first quarter 2022 for the exercise of agricultural and fishing activities. For the period April 1st to December 31st the value of the ISEE was extended to 12,000 for access to the social bonus water and light gas from families that - I remember - has been enhanced since October 2021. The audience of the beneficiary nuclei thus rose from 4 to 5.2 million. On the social bonus and energy poverty I remember that the League denounced that automatism was valid only for the recipients of citizenship income, while for the remaining families in economic difficulty, many of them unaware of the right to benefit and that in these months they have continued to pay very salty bills, ran the obligation to submit to the municipality the unique replacement documentation with the indication of their incomes and assets, with the addition to benefit of the bonus only from that moment on. It is an unacceptable discrimination which, thanks to Minister Giorgetti, we have removed with the so-called aid decree, with which, in addition to automation, retroactivity with compensation for the social bonus has been introduced for all. [[Applause]] We have won a battle of justice and equity. During the conversion, unfortunately, once again the financial space available to Parliament has been almost null and void. Noteworthy, however, is the confluence of Decree-Law No. 38 of 2 May 2022, which led to the extension of the reduction of the excise duty on petrol and LPG to 8 July, but for the first time it also introduced measures in favour of the gas supply chain for automotive, literally on the knees for months. Well not only the zeroing until 8 July of the excise duty of the gas for automotive, but above all, after the League from October 2021 had repeatedly requested it with several amendments, also the application of the VAT facilitated to 5% of the gas for automotive, like what is being done for gas for civil and industrial uses since October. With the same determination, we will continue to insist that the 5% reduced VAT can, once and for all, also apply to district heating services and energy service contracts, where gas is indirectly used for house heating. Always in good conversion the amendment of the League that allows, in the agricultural field, to take advantage of the full use of the technical capacity of the installed plants of production of electricity from biogas. Before concluding, I have to make two comments: the first concerns the introduction of the tax on extra-profits made by companies engaged in energy activities. Of course, with high energy, there are subjects that have been extravagant for months. Therefore, a rule that provided for an extraordinary solidarity levy served and, indeed, was necessary, but it had to be fair and just, as is not the article 37 of the decree-law that instead has many distorting elements that risk to severely penalize some enterprises. The rule does not take into account the excise duty paid, the extraordinary transactions, the financial derivatives to cover the risk, where instead the banks are the protagonists, hitting only the physical contracts. The League, with all rejected amendments, not only asked to remove these distortions, but also proposed to widen the audience of those who have to pay the tax also to banks and financial intermediaries operating in the energy sector with financial contracts and derivatives. Incomprehensiblely, however, this proposal has also been rejected - heard - out of honesty: a serious mistake because the approval of our amendment would have guaranteed not only greater revenues to the State and, consequently, the distribution of profits to millions of Italians, but also to cover the burdens to remove distorting effects contained in the penal law for several companies that will probably be led to recourse to the Consulta. The question arises spontaneously: was the involvement of banks costly for the State - we say absolutely no - or for Draghi? We hope that, with the so-called aid decree, where the tax has been announced to rise from 10 to 25%, it will run for cover. As far as the second and last reflection is concerned, all the measures launched so far - zero charges for electricity and gas bills, reduced VAT at 5% for gas, social bonuses, tax credit for companies for electricity and gas consumption and finally the reduction of fuel excise duties - are covered up to the second quarter and, therefore, until 30 June, 8 July for the reduction of excise duty. The so-called aid decree does not extend these measures from the advance notice and is a major problem. Since the dear energy, aggravated by the Ukrainian Russian war, has structural characteristics and continues incessantly with prohibitive prices, the government will play force within a month will necessarily have to introduce another substantial measure that extends to the third trimester the measure to protect citizens of the enterprises and the economic recovery, penalty the crisis. It's gonna take several billions. It is likely that we will need a new set of debt interventions, of course also in the Community, where Europe is called upon to play its part. If Brussels, with the recovery fund, has allowed debt to be paid for the ecological and digital transition, there is no reason to avoid this tragedy that has been affecting families and entire production sectors in crisis for almost a year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u69	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law of 21 March 2022, No 21, which we are called upon to examine today, saw intense work by the Government, but also by Parliament. I would like to thank all my colleagues, the rapporteurs and the Commissioners who have worked hard, especially on Sunday night, to conclude the examination of the decree in due course. The measure has the extraordinary requirements of necessity and urgency proper to the decree-law, because extraordinary is the situation that has been created for more than two months and that is bringing the whole world to its knees. It is a tragedy, first of all, humanitarian and inevitably economic. It is clear that war brings with it dramatic consequences, first of all humanitarian tragedies which are consumed territorially in Ukraine, but which touch us closely and from which we cannot and must not look away. However, there are also other economic consequences for Italian families and businesses, which have already had to pay a very high price for the pandemic emergency. Today's decree is born under these conditions and tries to cope with the economic and humanitarian effects, also with reference to the development of the productive activities, to contain the prices of energy on the Italian market and to face the situation of exceptional instability of the operation of the national natural gas system that comes from the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. This is therefore a far-reaching measure, starting with measures that cut prices for energy and gas, but which inevitably also includes support measures for businesses and jobs, as well as specific sectors such as transport, agriculture and fisheries. These are exceptional measures such as funds, reduced excise duties and VAT, bonuses and contributions in cash and in the form of tax credits, which want to address the exceptional situation resulting from the current international crisis. The Italia Viva-P.S.I Group has tried to make its contribution with amending proposals that could correct the distortions and criticalities of the measure, but also take into consideration situations and subjects that were not included. In particular, I would like to mention the amendment, which I also signed, aimed at reducing the enormous impact that the increase in gas prices has had on the automotive sector in the light of the increase in raw material prices on the energy market and, in particular, gas and methane, which have been fivefold compared to the values of the beginning of 2021. With this proposal we anticipate that a share of the fund for the support to the field of the road haulage is destined to the reduction of the VAT for the administrations of natural gas destined to the autotraction. We have also tabled an amendment to better specify the audience of the recipients of the fuel bonus rule, making it clear that all private employers - and not just private companies - can give their employees an incentive in the form of good petrol. The reference to the concept of a private company risked limiting its scope. Our goal, however, was to ensure that holders of professional studies, their employees and employees, already economically affected by the pandemic crisis and the energy crisis, could also use and benefit from this useful tool to cope with expensive fuels. Again, I would like to recall the amendment that provides for the suspension of payments due in April, May and June of withholding taxes and VAT for those who manage theatres, concert halls and artistic structures, which have already been severely affected by the pandemic emergency. Leaving aside other very important amendments, for which I thank my colleague, Mr Marino in particular, I would like to remind you that, for the installation of poles, towers and towers for electronic communication, the authorisation of the ARPA is no longer necessary. This amendment was not voted by the Movimento 5 Stars. However, we must always give citizens complete and truthful information: the authorization of the ARPA always remains for the installation phase of the active radio equipment. It is therefore clear that the amendment concerns only passive infrastructure and this is because Italy Viva certainly thinks about public health and wants to protect it, but always ensuring the simplification of procedures. Of course, more and better could be done, but let us take this amendment home and continue with the work, because this decree-law is part of a framework of emerging measures that have already been adopted and others that still need to be adopted; it is essential to stem the serious consequences of this conflict. Finally, Mr President, it must be clear that considerable diplomatic efforts are needed to build peace. To stop this war we need a diplomatic action of Europe, which will establish a solid peace agreement, really bringing the two countries to the table of dialogue, because in the meantime the humanitarian and economic consequences are unprecedented also for our country. I have concluded and thank the whole House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u72	Mr President, I will only take a few minutes, because we are going to have yet another vote of confidence. Unfortunately, this parliamentary term is beginning to remain historic, in the sense that the words of the Head of State in his speech of settlement will remain as an isolated cameo while respecting what should be the role of Parliament. And to think that there isn't even an excuse for the emergency state anymore. It is clear that what we have seen now has become a sad practice, which is consumed on every measure: continuous postponements of the sessions, Commissions that do not work during the day and then are forced to final sprints at night, in confusion, when colleagues have difficulty in understanding what they are voting on, with a method that tears apart all the regulations and all the parliamentary practices. We have tried, as patriotic opposition, also in this measure and also in this climate, to make our contribution to addressing the difficulties of our nation. We really pick up very little in terms of listening from the government and the political forces of majority. We will insist on the proposals, as we are used to doing, because we want to make opposition to this Government, which shows that months ago we were symbolically right in saying that we cannot give life to defined governments of broad understanding, which then become only long-awaited governments, because on every measure to be undertaken it is clear that there is the need to reach compromises, which are unfortunately always downward. I would like to focus my speech on Article 36 of this measure, with which the posts for the Covid staff of schools have finally been extended. This is an untenable necessity, which we had supported through an amendment even in previous measures. You always get late, because it was obvious that our school couldn't go on without this staff, and we re-launch saying that it won't be able to face the new school year without this staff. We do not understand why this decision could not already be adopted last month, i.e. before those posts came to an end. Thousands of people were sentenced to a Dante's life after serving in the interest of the State, and until the last day they did not know if they were to remain in service. By the way, we are talking about people who live hundreds of miles away from home and their families and who of course had to confirm their rents and all their life commitments. We do not understand why they could not be given time and peace of mind by adopting our amendment. However, we are pleased that the government and the majority have finally convinced themselves and found the resources to do so. Those who have experience as local administrators are well aware that school years are preparing well in advance and therefore, if we do not want the next school year to start with more and more serious uncertainties, we must take certain decisions from now on, which we have tried to propose with our amendments to Article 36. We are delighted that the commitment has been made to those eligible for primary school and children, but we do not understand, in this regard too, what method the Commission has followed, because in the presence of equal amendments, both in the content and in the text, those with the worst numbering are approved. For us it is not important to place a flag, but the form is substance and here, at the highest level of the Italian institutions, this principle should never be exempted; instead, it is punctually betrayed and put aside, with serious prejudice to the rights of all parliamentarians and in particular of the opposition, which legitimately and with a great sense of duty must realize its role of control of the government's activity. Unfortunately this is a practice and the Government, self-defined of the best, is incapable of understanding these elementary dynamics. It is also for this reason, of course, that the union acronyms and the whole world of the school are forced to announce a general strike for the next 30 May. If you had listened to our proposals and also those of many other Members of the majority, who are obviously disappointed that they were not heard, this strike would probably have been averted and above all we could have presented ourselves to the new school year with many more certainties. However, this is unfortunately a way of acting by the Government and also testifies to the inability of the majority to be heard, which is confirmed in all things. I am thinking, for example, of the events of local authorities and of the deadline of 30 April, which for a period have been mentioned to extend for the final statements, which the municipalities have serious difficulties in presenting. Nothing has been done about it and, now that the deadline has been exceeded, an extension is announced to the next 31 May, which is now on its way. How do you plan to govern the processes of a nation by extending in a posthumous way deadlines that have already been exceeded and advanced? It is evident that this government, which is a giant with clay feet, waves more and more. Then we say to you: if you are not able to govern and this experience and this political season have worn out, it is better to return the word to the Italians immediately through the elections, so that they can choose a majority that gives a legitimate government to our nation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are examining a new decree-law which, in part, in view of the dramatic evolution of the crisis leading to contexts to which it is necessary to respond on an emergency basis, can already be considered to have been exceeded by the so-called aid decree-law adopted a few days ago in the Council of Ministers. We have come from two years of Covid who has tried our country in every social and economic aspect. In fact, a recovery that has stopped today and is aggravated by the crisis in Ukraine had been laboriously initiated. In view of all the economic consequences which result from this and which are unfortunately constantly changing, as sanctions are put in place, we see new losses which need to be resolved. It is a crisis that affects everyone: the expensive bills and the expensive fuel in fact affect the everyday life of each of us. So the government has done well to intervene with an emergency decree giving help to citizens and businesses, thus avoiding that the latter are in a bad condition of having to stop production, lay off or close. The reduction of excise duties on diesel and petrol provided for in this decree-law was necessary, but it is certainly a temporary solution. The repercussions for Italy due to this crisis are undoubtedly impacting. In terms of general economy, the Russian market was flourishing for us and we are suffering in terms of tourism and exports. Just think of the stop of all our excellences, such as furniture, wine and the fashion industry, which in Russia is worth 1.5 billion a year. As far as the agri-food sector is concerned, Ukraine and Russia are the largest exporters of maize and wheat, and at the moment when that grain - as it happened for petrol - is no longer moving, devastating speculation is taking place. The price of fertilizers has even increased, so farmers are suffering not only from expensive fuel. Let us not forget that only a few weeks ago fishermen did not go out to sea for several days. The question arises as to how the Commission will put in place excellent proposals, having in its majority parties still voting for our energy independence. Many of us, who have been politically active in the territories for years, know very well that with the exclusivity of the no we cannot do the good of the public thing. In fact, to date we are faced with a crisis of this magnitude without having many tools to fight it and we should create them without wasting time. There have been bad party policies in this House today, which have actually increased Italy's energy dependence with their no-TAVs, no-TAPs, no-trivels, no-gasifiers, no-nuclears and now no-heater. We need vision skills, we need some sacrifice; we certainly do not need the populist myopia to say no to everything and continue to import energy from neighbouring France and Slovenia, which produce it with nuclear power. Minister Cingolani also supports the goodness of nuclear power. It is positive what the Government is deciding trying to import gas and strengthen extractions on our territory. The measure that we are about to approve has become necessary to mark and expand the audience of citizens and businesses on which the economic crisis is falling. It is necessary to put in place measures useful to support these exceptional requirements, therefore we appreciate the reduction of the rate of excise duty on the gasoline and the diesel used as fuel; the provision that previews an appropriation for the year 2022 to be allocated to the field of the road haulage, finalized to the reduction of the highway tolls, and the contribution in the form of tax credit in favor of the enterprises for the purchase of electricity and in favor of the enterprises for the purchase of natural gas. It is also a positive contribution to the extraordinary solidarity levy, due for 2022, to which producers, importers and retailers of electricity and gas are required, as well as to petroleum products, which have benefited from extra profits due to the increase in the prices of the sector's tariffs. There are also additional resources for 2022 to finance the so-called marebonus and ferrobonus; the transferability of tax credits granted to energy-intensive companies and those with high consumption of natural gas; above all, there is the social bonus electricity and gas. In short, they are all good measures, but we need to act heavily with vision towards the future. The provisions on cybersecurity, on which I myself have put a question, are also good. The evolution of the international situation and the geopolitical context has revealed the need to re-evaluate the technological risk scenario of computer security products and services. Therefore, it was necessary and urgent to allocate funds to ensure that early action could be taken to start a process of diversification of certain types of products, characterised by a high level of pervasiveness on the networks, and the systems in which they operate, resulting in a potential impact on the overall risk, ensuring the continuity of security services. Essential is the provision for the reception of Ukrainian refugees in Italy. To date, more than 112,000 people have arrived, including 38,000 children. We need a policy of integration, not just of reception, since these people leave ghost cities in which they will hardly be able to return. In view of this decree and the aid decree, approved a few days ago in the Council of Ministers, it is LaPalissian that a long-term solution is necessary. A long-term strategy is needed; gas aid may not be sufficient. The cost of fuel could become more serious, as the G7 confirmed the Russian gas and oil embargo. What if this really happens? It certainly does not resolve only by cutting excise duties. We must look to the future and seek the fastest and most efficient solutions to bring our country to independence and to a consequent lesser impact in the face of the resulting economic crisis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u74	Mr President, the decree that we are about to vote for its conversion into law has offered some answers to families and businesses regarding the critical issues that Russia's war in Ukraine has brought to our country. From the temporary reduction of the tax rate on fuels to tax concessions for fuel vouchers for the employees of companies; from the extraordinary contributions in the form of tax credit for companies with high energy consumption to those for agricultural and tourist-receptive enterprises; from a strengthening of the rules on golden power to safeguard the ownership and management of companies operating in sectors considered strategic to the definition of an extraordinary contribution on the extra profit to the entities operating in the energy sector: there have been many measures that this decree has brought in place and that we know to be forerunners of a number of other interventions. We are waiting for the important decree-law aid, which will contain significant measures also from the economic point of view, but this decree gave early answers to some issues that became critical. However, Parliament's amending action has led to some improvements to the text approved by the Council of Ministers. In particular, the Democratic Party Group has achieved significant results in some areas. The urgent provisions on the prices of public contract materials have been extended to the general contractors. There are some provisions on simplification in the area of 5G. It has been made an important participation on the sport job, to protection of the new spring; in topic of transports, in the field of the ports, there are a measure for the promotion of the railway traffic of the goods in harbour within and then the solution of a problem that has lasted for some time, with the entrance of the foreign marine workers in our harbour areas on board of great ships from cruise. There are measures on unaccompanied minors from Ukraine; in the field of trade, there has been the extension to 30 September of authorisations for public land occupation for bars and restaurants and also the simplification of the related procedures. With regard to local authorities, the rules on the management by municipalities of public housing housing are restored, in particular for the conversion of land law into property law; there are contributions for large municipalities which merge; authorisation to use the administrative surplus to cover the increased costs arising from energy expenditure and also the revision of structural budget deficit indicators. We have succeeded in obtaining the approval of amendments also in the school sector, with the measures on the purchase of controlled mechanical ventilation systems under the Fund for the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, and provisions on the integration of the merit rankings of the ordinary competition for children and primary. These are measures that we have been able to achieve thanks to the dialogue in the majority and to the confrontation with the Government, which I want to thank and which - I remind Senator Iannone, who may have been lost in the parliamentary dynamics and in our Constitution - is absolutely legitimate and legitimate to operate on behalf of the Italians. A complex task has also been done this time, certainly with the presentation of numerous amendments, all of which are important, although it is clear that then the specific weight of the different measures must also be weighed and calibrated and sometimes the time we take to make political choices is also due to the amount of work that we ourselves produce and which must be clearly examined. All the parliamentary groups would perhaps need to be able to weigh better the proposals they make in order to make their action more effective and even more expedited, because sometimes the will to act to improve the measures of the government results in a significant number of amendments that then turns into a brake on our action. To each of us and to all the groups, I would like to say that we should find a way to make Parliament's intervention on government measures really faster and more effective. However, I believe that the experience of this legislature, first with the emergency arising from the Covid and now with the emergency linked to the war in Ukraine, has also enabled us to manage the most complicated aspects of legislative procedures and our production of amendments. I would like to thank the Presidents D'Alfonso and Girotto for the conduct of the work, of course the rapporteurs Fenu and Tiraboschi for the work of sewing the proposals, for which they took charge together with the Undersecretary War and undersecretary Freni for how they accompanied our work. The Democratic Party is satisfied with the work that the Government has previously done with the drafting of the decree; but we are also satisfied with the work of improving the text that our Group, with the other majority groups, has managed to achieve, with the usual dialogue, sometimes intense, but which has produced results. We believe that we must move forward in this direction, we are waiting for the text of the important aid decree to be able to weigh those measures as well and to make a further contribution towards improving the needs expressed by families and businesses and that the political forces interpret through their presence in Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time is too late, but I would like to use the time available to me to dwell on two fundamental points before we go into the substance of the measure. Firstly, I would like to reiterate the full solidarity and support of the Forza Italia Group - and I think I can speak on behalf of all the Italian people - to the Ukrainian people and to stress that Italy, together with all the Allied countries, is seeking a diplomatic solution, which remains the main way to resolve this crisis. At the same time, I would like to say that it is our right and our duty to help those victims who cannot defend themselves against aggression, and in this case too, Italy, in my opinion, is playing its part. The second aspect is the economic repercussions that this war, which has lasted for over two months, has on our economy. In Italy, increases in oil, gas and coal are increasing the costs of companies and this impact results in an increase in the Italian energy bill of 5.7 billion on a monthly basis, i.e. a higher burden of 68 billion on an annual basis. So far, companies have largely absorbed these cost increases in their margins, in some cases until they cancel them, instead of downloading them, as they should, on the subsequent stages of production. Erosive margins explain why inflation in Italy is still low. The only positive aspect is that this trend in prices and margins has safeguarded the competitiveness of Italian companies compared to those of other countries, but in my opinion this process is not sustainable for a long time. For this reason several companies are unfortunately reducing or stopping production or planning to do so in the coming months. On the other hand, the rise in energy prices squeezes the purchasing power of households and this will affect the extent and rate of growth of consumption, the recovery of which was first hampered by the increase in contagions and now also by the increased uncertainty that influences confidence, which, as we have all seen, collapsed in March. Another impact of the war comes from sanctions or counter-sanctions: the direct impact of sanctions to Russia on Italian exports is modest overall; the blockade concerns 686 million euros of sales to Russia, equal to 8.9% of Italian exports to the country, which in turn represents 1.5% of the total Italian exports. What worries, however, is that there are some specific Italian products, for example some machines, for which the weight of the Russian market exceeds 10%; therefore, if the total impact of the Italian non-export to Russia is sustainable, it is not so for those Italian companies that have in the Russian market the main, if not exclusive, recipient of their products or services. GDP growth in 2022 is much less favourable than previously estimated: this year there would be an increase of 1.9 per cent, with a large downward revision of about 2.2%, compared to the scenario outlined last October, when all forecasters agreed on 4%. At the same time, it is worrying about the rise in interest rates, as it will gradually increase interest expenditure, so there will be less budgetary space to put in place expansionary manoeuvres. There is therefore a risk of going back to prudent policies to avoid increases in spread, which is already very uphill. In the decree-law under consideration, the Government has put in place many important measures, which I would like to mention, because they have already been widely described by both the rapporteurs and our fellow senators. Allow me, however, to reflect on the bonuses, also given the last aid decree-law to be issued. In my view, perhaps you would need a reorder of all these bonuses. Only for 2022 we even have over 40, from the ATM bonus to the bus bonus, just to give two examples. These are buffer measures, while at the moment we need an overall vision and, above all, structural interventions for the relaunch of our country. In the Commission - and here I thank the Presidents of Mr D'Alfonso and Mr Girotto, the rapporteurs, Mr Tiraboschi and Mr Fenu, as well as all the Members of the Commission - we have tried to do a fruitful work of deepening and synthesis in order to find solutions to at least some of the issues we consider important, precisely in order to try to give a vision that goes beyond the immediate emergency. Let me now go into some of the amendments that have been adopted, including, first of all, the one relating to a very important issue, such as 5G technology-based communication services. We have intervened in this case with corrective measures, in my view very significant. The decree in its initial wording - I would like to remind you - provided for the obligation to send a notification including the annual schedule of purchases, but this seems incompatible with the possibility of the enterprises to supply immediately detailed technical information. We have therefore considered it necessary to remove from the article the reference to the degree of detail of the information transmitted and to clarify, with a view to simplifying, the exclusion from the notification requirement of acquisitions involving the mere extension of goods or services relating to contracts already in existence notified in accordance with the old procedure or in any case already approved. For the same reason, the forecast of updating the annual plan on a quarterly basis, contained in the original text of the decree, represented an excessive stiffening. We have therefore wanted to ensure that operators continue without uncertainty in the usual activities related to the development of 5G networks and in this respect, precisely in order not to impose the activity of these enterprises, we have eliminated the reference to the update on a four-monthly basis, providing that this happens during the year without time windows. Forza Italia also intervened to save the works eligible to benefit from tax relief in the field of construction, such as ecobonus, earthquakebonus or bonus facades. With an amendment, to my first signature, we have introduced the obligation for companies carrying out works of more than 516,000 to possess the qualification requirement of companies certification bodies (SOA), similar to that already provided for today for all seismic reconstruction works. Let me make this amendment clear. Ensuring regularity and quality standards does not mean further implementing bureaucracy for these companies, but giving quality and, above all, safety at work. In this way it will be possible to distinguish the serious companies from the improvised ones, that maybe - I want to remember it, because it has happened in recent months - have changed the Ateco code at the last moment for mere opportunism, transforming companies decotted into false construction companies, producing very high profits. Moreover, in order to safeguard small and diligent companies we have inserted a time period, until 31 December 2022, in which there will be no change of the norm, while from 1 January to 30 June 2023 the demand for the certification application will suffice. Only from 1 July will the rule be set. Another improvement meets a demand very much felt by the productive world and I want to thank in a special way the undersecretary Freni and the undersecretary War, with which we worked hard, for having accepted our request. In June, I would like to remind you, thousands of companies would have to pay the capital installments of the loans with State guarantee under the so-called Italian decree cure. We were able to extend the time span by a further six months to start paying. Then the measure will bring the payment of the instalments from twenty-four to thirty-six months.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u76	Senator Montani is enlisted to speak, if he is present in the Assembly. That is Senator Pilgrims, if I recognize him well despite the useless mask that our Senators quaestors force us, they force you to hold. He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen and representatives of the Government, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law contains some very important rules proposed by the Movimento 5 Stars. I am referring first of all to the so-called golden power for large hydro-electric derivations. It is an amendment to our Senator Andrea Cioffi's first signature that extends the special powers of the State in areas considered strategic for national security such as energy, communications, transport and even now the concessions of regional competence. In essence, this rule will protect the concessions of the large hydroelectric basins - we are talking about renewable energy production that, never as at this time, has been understood how fundamental it is for our country - from acquisitions that could put our country in difficulty or in danger from an energy point of view. We are very pleased that this important innovation has received Parliament's virtually unanimous approval. Another significant rule concerns the work of the so-called 110 percent superbonus. Companies carrying out such work and which, in essence, operate with public money must provide the community with guarantees that they are able to know and be able to organize, carry out, manage and carry out the work, offering a quality product, performing the works in accordance with art and applying all the safety standards at work. In fact, we can no longer accept the painful succession of deaths in construction sites. We apply to these works a system in some way similar to that adopted for public works, using the criterion of SOA certification. However, we have provided for a threshold below which the contractors and subcontractors will not have to acquire the SOA and we have identified it in 516,000 euros, twice the limit that exists for the works to be carried out in the municipalities damaged by the earthquake. A limit which we believe is absolutely reasonable to discriminate between large and smaller jobs, for which a different and less complex type of organisation is required. We have also foreseen that the transitional regime will start next year, so not from 2022, but exactly from 1 January 2023, when companies will have to demonstrate that they have at least requested SOA certification. The standard will then go to regime on the first July of 2023, in more than a year; an absolutely reasonable period of time to allow the thousands of Italian construction companies serious and competent, that I want to remark, being among other things operator of the field, are the vast majority in Italy, to qualify and to prepare to operate also in all those yards that will open also after 2023 thanks to the huge funds of the PNRR. Funds for which the Movimento 5 Stars and President Conte have fought so hard in Europe and which are one of our greatest political successes. [[Applause]] We have tabled the amendment on the qualification of enterprises, at my first signature, since the budget law for 2022, then we put it back in the support-b decree and finally saw the light in this measure exactly as I meant in December last with my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars. Another very important standard of the brand Movimento 5 Stars is that of the yieldability of tax credits of the energetic and gasiver enterprises. A rule that will give breath and concrete financial aid to all those companies that are in difficulty because of the steep increase in energy prices. This extension of the mechanism of the transfer of tax credits is the recognition, also by this Government, of the validity of a mechanism conceived, proposed and approved by the Movimento 5 Stars, that allows a faster release of liquidity in the real economy and gives the possibility to companies to resort less to the financial market. We hope and will continue to fight for this mechanism, so that it can be extended as far as possible to other tax credits. I am referring, for example, to training 4.0, energy communities between companies (so-called industrial energy communities) and green investment in companies. This is the way forward if we want to increase investment, run the country and increase GDP. To be honest, even a child would understand this: there is no need to be internationally renowned bankers or economists. [[Applause]] The mechanism of the transferability of tax credits is marking a real financial and economic revolution that no one should be afraid of, but which must be valued more and more, even with all the necessary controls to avoid any abuse and fraud. I would also like to point out that many other amendments of the Movimento 5 Star to this measure have been included in the decree-law aid and excise duty, bearing witness to the goodness and far-sightedness of our proposals. I am referring, for example, to the extension of the reduction of excise duties on hydrocarbons, the increase in taxes on the so-called extra-profits of energy companies and the extension of the so-called superbonus 110 for single-family homes from 30 June to 30 September. In this regard, I would like to point out the behaviour of the Government which, from my point of view, is truly singular and inconsistent. In fact, on the one hand, the Commission rightly extends the measure for single-family workers by accepting, albeit with delay, the pressing demands of the 5 Star Movement, the other forces and the building world, while, on the other, it attacks the superbonus in Europe, by means of its most authoritative voice, namely President Draghi. Among other things - I am sorry to say - the President-in-Office of the Council made considerations on that occasion without any factual and economic basis, for example, because he spoke of double or tripled prices because of the superbonus. I can say, without fear of being denied, that it is misinformed because the vertiginous increase in the prices of raw materials and semi-finished products is recorded worldwide and not only in Italy where there is the super bonus. Among other things, it is not the first time that President Draghi or Minister Franco have told non-existent things about the superbonus 110. I remember when, a few months ago, they said that that of the superbonus was one of the greatest scams of the century and they talked about billionaire fraud, except then had to rushly correct when the data of the Agency of Revenue were made known that - it is almost useless to say - we had requested of the Movimento 5 Stars. These data provided evidence that less than 1% of the amounts used in the superbonus had been established as originating from fraud and that only 3% of the total fraud on all building bonuses was attributable to this measure. [[Applause]] I really do not understand this continuous pulling of the rope and such fierceness towards a measure that has allowed our country to make a leap forward both in the field of energy and seismic efficiency, and in relation to GDP and that has been praised by President von der Leyen in a letter to our Government and also by other important European representatives. I would advise the President of the Council to consult the studies made on the subject, including that of the Cresme and the Chamber of Deputies (which figures in 4 billion euros for 2021 the positive economic balance for the State resulting from the application of the superbonus and other building bonuses), or the last survey of Enea (which shows, on April 30 last, how the work of energy efficiency from superbonus saved the country more than 5 million megawattora, which correspond to the annual electricity consumption of more than one million families). It must be noted that the era of austerity, policies of tears and blood, the letters from the European Central Bank of 5 August 2011 and the abstruse rules on budgetary convergence have ended forever and that, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, a new era of development, redistribution of wealth, expansionary policies and the creation of good, stable and properly paid work has opened. Back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u78	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-05-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-430.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 11 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.05 p.m.
