ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 28 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u4	I communicate that on 28 July 2022 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 73 of 21 June 2022, concerning urgent measures in the matter of tax simplifications and the release of nulla precludes work, Treasury of the State and additional financial and social provisions" (2681). I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 9.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 11.20 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has decided that the sitting will resume at 3.30 p.m. with the reading of the timetable certainly for today and tomorrow morning. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.21 a.m. and resumed at 3.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u5	I inform the Assembly that the Conference of the Leaders has confirmed the agenda already established for today, which provides for the examination, without closing hours, of the decree-law simplifications tax, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and of the bill containing the annual law for the market and competition 2021, connected to the maneuver of public finance, approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. Time quotas shall be published in an annex to the timetable. The sitting will be suspended at 4 p.m. for the meeting of the Presidency Council. The agenda for tomorrow's session will include the discussion of the 2021 Report and 2022 Internal Budget of the Senate. The Conference of the Leaders, as I had already announced to suspend the work, will therefore be convened tomorrow, at the end of the discussion of the 2021 Report and Internal Budget of the 2022 Senate, to define the continuation of the schedule of the intense activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2681, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Di Piazza, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, Senators and Senators, the measure on which the Finance and Treasury Committee has given me a mandate to report favourably consists of 61 articles. Title I contains provisions on tax simplifications; Title II concerns the procedures for collection and payment at the Treasury of the State, as well as provisions on economic, financial and social matters. Title III contains measures for the simplification of the procedures for the release of nulla precludes work and the checks referred to in Article 30-a, paragraph 8, of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 394 of 1999, as well as financial and final provisions. In particular, Article 1 makes changes to the rules governing the control of the register of acts consisting of public officials for the purposes of registration tax. Article 2, as amended during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, lays down, as a first-level rule, certain obligations to which tax substitutes are required in their tax assistance activities. Article 3 contains numerous changes to the terms of the law for certain tax obligations, while article 3-a, introduced to the Chamber, further extends the use of the F24 model for the payment of taxes, taxes and contributions in favour of the State and the territorial and social security authorities. Article 4 amends the competent authority to establish the tax domicile of a taxpayer in a municipality other than that of his personal residence or registered office, recognising this option to the Revenue Agency. The provision also provides for simplification rules on the change in tax domicile. Article 5 regulates the destination of the tax refunds due to the deceased by amending the single text on inheritance tax and donations. Article 6 provides that, even in the event of presentation without modification of the pre-compiled declaration by CAF or professional, no formal control of the data shall be carried out. Article 6-a, introduced to the House, sets out some rules aimed at introducing new simplified methods of communication by the financial administration of the negative outcome of the control procedure towards the taxpayer. Article 6-b, introduced to the Chamber, allows the debtor, together with the procedure for the compulsory collection with foreclosure or mortgage of goods, to carry out the direct sale of real estate, in the case of buildings that can be found in the urban building register without cadastral annuity, to the value determined by the uncontested expertship carried out by the Revenue Agency. Article 7, as amended during the examination in the Chamber, clarifies that the declaration confirming the compliance with the economic and regulatory content of an agreed rental contract, transitional or for university students to the agreements defined at local level can be invoked for all leases entered into after its issue and, as a result of the modifications made in Parliament, having the same content of the contract for which it was issued, up to any variations of the characteristics of the property or of the territorial agreement of the Municipality to which it refers. Article 8 provides for the application of the so-called principle of enhanced derivation, according to which the determination of corporate income for the purposes of the Corporate Income Tax (Ires) is consistent with the accounting representation, by way of derogation from the rules of the single income tax text, of micro-enterprises opting for the drawing up of the budget in ordinary form. It then extends the criteria of temporal imputation deriving from the principle of reinforced derivation also to the posts accounted for as a result of the process of correction of the accounting errors, provided that they are negative components of income for which the deadline for submitting supplementary declarations has not expired. Article 9 repeals, in paragraph 1, the rules of the so-called companies in systematic loss from the current tax period to 31 December 2022, while, in paragraph 2, repeals the additional Ires for companies operating in the hydrocarbons sector, from the tax period 2021 (tax period following that in progress at 31 December 2020). Article 10 contains a number of simplifications relating to the regional tax on production activities (IRAP) with specific reference to the determination of the value of net production constituting the tax base of the levy. Article 11 refers back to February the time limits for the approval of the declaration form for income tax and IRAP, as well as for the provision of reporting templates, instructions and technical specifications for the telematic transmission of data. Article 12 extends the cases of exemption from the specific obligation of electronic communication provided for in the communication of data of cross-border transactions. Under the rule under consideration, this obligation is no longer required for individual transactions of up to EUR 5,000. Article 13 shall defer the period from 1 July 2022 from which the penalties for omission or wrong transmission of invoices relating to cross-border transactions apply. Article 14 extends from twenty to thirty days the time limit for the registration of acts in fixed time for the purposes of registration tax. Article 15 makes it possible to extend, by measure of the Director of the Revenue Agency, the assumptions of payment by electronic means to the stamp tax. Article 16 reduces from €15,000 to €5,000 the threshold for the transmission by intermediaries to the Agency of the revenues of specific data on the transfer operations to and from abroad of means of payment and at the same time eliminates the need for the intermediary to reconstruct those transactions which, appearing to be linked together as parts of a single financial transaction, could lead to the crossing of the threshold. Article 17 removes the obligation of public authorities and public bodies to notify the tax registry of the details of contracts for public contracts, administration and transport concluded by private and unregistered writing. Article 18 extends, in point (a), the exemption of VAT to health benefits for the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of the person rendered in the exercise of the professions and the health arts from the non-conventional nursing homes and the application of the VAT rate of 10 per cent to the provision of accommodation rendered (even by persons other than the non-conventional nursing homes) to the accompanying persons of the hospitality and to the services of diagnosis, care and shelter that are not exempt. The following point (b) extends the application of the VAT rate by 10% to hospitalization and care services, including services of greater hotel comfort other than those already exempt under the legislation in force, as well as to accommodation services provided to the accompanying person. Article 19, instead of providing that the model IMU declaration for non-commercial entities is approved by decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, provides that this declaration shall be adopted by decree of the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Finance. Article 20 extends to 31 July 2022 the time limits for the approval of the decision to adapt the additional municipalities to the Irpef by the municipalities. It is also expected that for the year 2022, for municipalities that do not adopt and do not send timely the resolution of adaptation and have additional rates differentiated by bands, the municipal addition to the Irpef applies on the basis of the new bands of the Irpef and the first four rates in force in the Municipality in 2021, with the elimination of the last. Article 21 sets out rules aimed at achieving greater logistical integration between the Revenue Agency and the Revenue-Risk Agency, including through joint management of real estate needs. Article 22 extends to 31 December 2026 the application of the optional VAT reverse charge mechanism, in line with the latest developments in European legislation. Paragraph 1 of Article 23 amends the rules providing for a tax credit for companies carrying out research and development activities for medicines, including vaccines, with reference to the costs incurred from 1 June 2021 to 31 December 2030. Article 23 also allows undertakings to apply for a certification attesting the qualification of investments made or to be carried out for the purposes of their classification in the framework of research and development, technological innovation and design and aesthetic innovation activities, eligible for tax credit for investments in research and development, in ecological transition, in technological innovation 4.0 and in other innovative activities; the qualification of the technological innovation activity aimed at achieving digital innovation 4.0 and ecological transition objectives, for the purpose of applying the respective rates of the facility foreseen for the current period on 31 December 2022, for the subsequent tax period and for the tax period after 31 December 2023, until 31 December 2025. The paragraphs 8-a and 8-b have been inserted by the Chamber. Paragraph 8- bis provides for accreditation on an unfruitful account opened at the Treasury of the State, registered to the Enea Tech and Biomedical Foundation, of the resources destined for purposes and interventions for which the Ministry of Economic Development makes use, on the basis of the current legislation, of the foundation itself. Paragraph 8-b authorizes the opening of the current account at the Central Treasury of the State in the name of the company Arexpo S.p.A., on which the resources made available in implementation of agreements and in which the same company is authorized to make payments and withdrawals for the same purposes. Article 24 extends to 2022 the corrective measures for synthetic indices of fiscal reliability foreseen for 2020-2021 only, introduced to counter the effects of the pandemic on the national economy. The standard shall also identify, on a regular basis, new deadlines for the approval and possible integration of the indices. Article 25, which introduced rules to ensure the updating of the tax mark currently in place for alcohol products in view of the development of computer technologies of anti-counterfeiting and traceability, was deleted during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. The provision contained in article 25-a, added during the examination to the Chamber, in fact introduces a suspension of the time limit for the calculation of the one hundred and eighty days within which the offices of the national single register of the third sector, received the information contained in the pre-existing registers, arrange to ask the institutions already registered for any missing information or documents and to verify the existence of the requirements for registration. For the purposes of calculating this time limit, the period from 1 July 2022 to 15 September 2022 should not be taken into account when receiving the information contained in the registers prior to the single national register of the third sector. Article 26 introduces a number of amendments to the rules on tax and financial relief provided for in the Code of the Third Sector (comma 1) and those relating to the social undertaking (comma 2), while paragraph 3 provides for the quantification of the costs arising from the implementation of this Article and identifies the corresponding forms of financial cover. Article 26-a, introduced in the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, extends to 31 December 2022, instead of the current 31 May 2022, the deadline for the mandatory application of the pre-existing rules to the new Code of the third sector, for the purposes and for the effects resulting from the registration of institutions in the registers of non-profit organisations, voluntary organisations and social promotion associations, pending the full operation of the Single Register of the third sector. Article 27 simplifies and updates the discipline of the State treasury service carried out by the Bank of Italy, also in relation to the pursuit of the objective of the unity of the state treasury. Article 28 repeals the current rule entrusting the Bank of Italy with the central treasury service of the State. Article 29 amends Article 93, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016 (procurement code), in relation to the way in which securities are paid in treasury to guarantee participation in public tenders, providing exclusively for the electronic mode. Article 30 makes changes to a number of provisions of the State's General Accounting Act. Article 31 repeals the rules governing the exchange order contained in Articles 87 to 97 of Royal Decree No 1736 of 1933. Article 32 makes changes to the rules governing checks on administrative and accounting regularity, provided for by Legislative Decree no. 123 of 2011, in order to adapt it to the new definitions inserted by the previous Article 30. The rules governing the control of judicial accounts shall be explicitly extended to agents engaged in national collection activities, by way of a role. Finally, it is expected that the transmission of information on receipts and payments by the general government members of the SIOPE database will only take place through the SIOPE+ infrastructure, referring to secondary legislation for operational details. [[The microphone starts flashing.]] Since my time is up, I would ask the President for permission to deposit the remainder of my report, so that it can be published in the Annex to the Reports of today's sitting, and I conclude by thanking the offices of the 6th Permanent Commission for the valuable support they have always provided in this parliamentary term, and in particular Dr Bruschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u8	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u9	Mr President, this decree-law deals with a subject which is defined as "simplifications" in this case in tax matters. However important, however, taxation and the collection of taxes and charges on citizens are, as would constitutional and inviolable rights, such as the right to vote. Unfortunately, the right to vote today is severely undermined by an electoral law that will make us vote on 25 September without giving the opportunity to the new political formations to be able to compete with equal opportunities in relation to the political forces represented in Parliament, to give voice to that large part of the citizenship that they no longer feel represented by. It was probably precisely for this reason that it was intended to hasten the times and sew on a dress to some political forces that here are also represented and that they would not have had the requirements to avoid the collection of signatures, while they left themselves out, blamelessly, all other political forces. It is therefore for this reason that I have tabled an amendment to this decree-law, which is precisely referred to as "simplifications." In fact, if it is right to simplify the task of the Revenue Agency or, in any case, of the Government in carrying out checks and collecting dues and dues from citizens, it is also a duty to simplify the life of all those citizens who rightly hoped to be represented, giving them the certainty that they can do so with equal merit and equal opportunity compared to all those who adhere instead to the formations already established in the two Chambers. Unfortunately, amendments of any kind to any measure have been considered admissible, including other measures - I am referring to the last aid decree and the extension of sanctions for those over 50 who do not fulfil their vaccination obligations - I do not see why you, Mr President, cannot properly assess the two amendments that I have tabled - as I hope they will be. I am referring to the amendment aimed at simplifying the procedures for the admission of lists, bypassing the collection of signatures, finally demonstrating democratic viability and thus giving voice to all those who are currently outside Parliament and have every right to compete with others with equal opportunities to be represented here, in the institutions, if these are still representative. The other amendment concerns the extension of sanctions for those over 50 who have failed to comply with the vaccination obligation (in this case by 15 June). This was a stroke of hand that the majority put to the mark in a decree-law that dealt with all the other matter, the decree aid, ensuring that all the over fifty who have not carried out a dose of vaccine by June 15 are prosecutable with a penalty of 100 euros and are, therefore, still under the control of all the agencies that have the cross data, even those on health, in order to be able to file and fine them. Clearly no one will pay the fine, because everyone will oppose, as it is normal that it is, seen and considered that these products did not have any effect and seen and considered, moreover, that they are experimental and unfortunately caused cases of death and many very serious adverse events. At this point, I hope that the majority - and today it no longer exists and has been dissolved - of Members of Parliament, who represent all Italian citizens who are going to vote, return to their steps and remedy the damage done to helpless people who have not committed any crime. If simplification is something important for the public interest, it must be aimed at this and must not be used by the Government, or by bodies acting on behalf of the Commission, to vex citizens, subjecting them to social control and even imposing mandatory health treatments or made compulsory for a certain period of time, which to date - I repeat - have proved totally ineffective. I therefore ask, Mr President, that we seriously consider whether we should put amendments 36-a to the vote. 1 and 45.0.1. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u10	Senator Granato, the Presidency took note, but the assessment of the amendments will be announced to the Assembly in the course of the work. According to the agreements, I suspend the work, which will resume around 16.30, at the end of the Presidency Council. Even Senator, you will be able to intervene in the resumption of the work of this House. PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for simplification and also at the suggestion of the Deputy Parent Company, I would like to give up my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. However, the order I have just given you remains unchanged. The sitting is suspended and will resume at around 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16:01 and resumed at 16:36.) Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting has resumed. Senator Perostino gives up his intervention. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u11	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u12	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u13	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u14	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. In accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares the amendment 45.0.1. as inadmissible because of the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments relating to the articles of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u15	Mr President, with Amendment 36- bis.1 it is proposed to repeal the extension of sanctions for those over 50 who have failed to comply with the vaccination obligation by 15 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u16	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u17	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u18	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u19	As a result of this request, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a result of this request, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I'm being alerted and we're putting on record a malfunction of the electronic voting device. We record that there is a certain technical difficulty, which we point out to the offices. Please pay attention to avoid these problems. I cancel the previous vote and, having been asked for it, I call again for the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a result of this request, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a result of this request, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 11.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 11.0.2 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 19.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a result of this request, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 21.0.2 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 22.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 22.0.2 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 22.0.3 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.0.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26-a.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26- bis.0.2 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 35-a.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 36.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 36-a.1, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u22	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, I would like to point out that I was wrong to vote on Amendment 36.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u23	The offices will take note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u26	DE SIANO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted in favour of it by mistake, while I wanted to vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u27	We take note of that. As you know, you can communicate. Please pay attention, so we can also keep a proper pace. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 36-a.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 38-a.1 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 43.1, tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 43.2 tabled by Senators De Bertoldi and Calandrini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 45.0.1 is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u30	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law introduces urgent measures on tax simplifications, through a series of measures that will help to facilitate the relationship between the tax and the taxpayer. The need to deburocratise and improve the management of the tax and social security system is a central issue. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u31	Senator Mautone, as you know, it is difficult to maintain an adequate level of buzz. Colleagues, if you stay in this Chamber, I would ask you to reduce the voice considerably, so that Members can speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u32	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). The need to deburocratize and improve the management of the contributory and fiscal system is a central theme for our country, because it determines the confidence of citizens in the institutions, all the more so at this moment of great economic and social uncertainty. For us in Together for the Future-Civic Commitment it is essential that the State supports citizens and businesses and facilitates the relationship with its many articulations, even more so when it comes to tax, the system by which each citizen must contribute to collective well-being. With this measure, therefore, we will fulfil many commitments made to the citizens. I am referring to measures to simplify the preparation of micro-enterprise budgets and to manage accounting errors, tax monitoring of money transfer transactions through bank and financial intermediaries, the extension from 30 June to 31 December 2022 of the deadline for the submission of the IMU declaration for 2021 and the release of the superbonus and the disposal of building bonuses. Thanks to the intervention of the Government, measures will be introduced in favour of the taxpayers, such as the complete materialization of the choices of destination of 8, 5 and 2 per thousand at the time of the presentation of the Model 730, the methods of granting the tax refunds due to the heirs and the methods of control on the health expenses incurred by the taxpayers. In addition, there will be important innovations in the matter of a single allowance, which will benefit families with disabled children, whether underage or adult. As regards social and health measures, it is necessary to mention the exemption of VAT for the services of diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of the person carried out by the nursing homes not affiliated with the National Health Service; a measure, this, which will help to reduce the costs of access to health services and to improve the provision of services by the staff itself. The emergence of the Covid-19 and the creation of a vaccine have shown how fundamental scientific research is, not only for the advancement of society, but also for the preservation of the lives of citizens. This is the principle behind the tax credit measure for companies carrying out research and development activities for medicines, including vaccines, with reference to the costs incurred from 1 June 2021 to 31 December 2030. The sense of responsibility, respect for institutions and attention to the real problems of citizens: these are the principles that inspired the action of support to the Government of Together for the future and civic commitment. On these values, which we all share, our work and our commitment have been founded, aimed at providing concrete answers to the citizens at such a dramatic time as what we are experiencing. At one of the most difficult stages in republican history it was inevitable for us to put aside the divisions that normally characterize the political debate in order to engage in a government action inspired by national unity. Unfortunately, Mr President, I would like to add that this path, on which we have worked hard, has been abruptly interrupted and with it all the reform projects that we had planned to conclude, from tax to pensions. This crisis of government, which has prematurely interrupted a legislature that was already coming to an end, has left not only us, but the whole country and many of our international partners stunned. Together for the future Democratic Center we have tried in every way to prevent the experience of this Government, led by Professor Draghi, from being interrupted at this delicate moment. Like us, so many citizens, mayors, representatives of associations, production groups and civil society organisations have called for a gesture of responsibility from all the political forces that supported this Government, so that the fractures would recompose and continue to work to cope with the many emergencies of this historical phase. But responsibility, Mr President, requires commitment. Evidently, some political forces have preferred to put their interests ahead of those of Italy and Italians and have chosen the path of confrontation on the basis of mere electoral calculations, leaving the country in uncertainty and throwing itself into a summer election campaign that has already taken on tones in some cases grotesque. There are those who have decided to row against, because they are hunted by a clear decline in consensus, leading to not voting on the government's trust; instead, there are those who, like the center-right parties, took the opportunity to walk away from the Executive without taking responsibility for it, sacrificing the welfare of the country on the altar of consensus. In this extraordinary context of emergency, Mr President, with the pandemic still clinging to the health system, the war at the gates of Europe, the price of energy and raw materials skyrocketing and almost double-digit inflation, citizens have had to witness a merciless and unbecoming spectacle. A few months after the vote, it was chosen to sink the government, greatly weakening the country's ability to carry out the reforms necessary to counter the effects of price increases and to provide citizens with the concrete answers they need. All this has been done for a simple reason, as disturbing for its gravity: the pure interest to chase some points in the surveys, ignoring that the stakes are the future of Italians and the social and economic structure of our country. Mr President, a resigning government has, by definition, limited powers and cannot cope with the ambitious and decisive measures that are needed at such a time. Public finance programmes will necessarily be limited and this will have serious repercussions, which will be felt especially on our territories. There is a risk of losing what good has been done in Europe, with the achievement of the agreements foreseen by the PNRR: without completing the necessary reforms by the end of 2022, there is a real risk of losing the EUR 20 billion foreseen. We are faced with the danger of enacting a budget law that increases public debt without the necessary cover or that forces Italians, from the very beginning, to enormous sacrifices. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. The long-awaited restart and the investments to carry out public works for the safety of buildings and the territory and for the adaptation of essential services are now put at risk by the irresponsibility of political forces that have only their own interest at heart. We are ready to move forward to respond to the citizens, to safeguard the resources of the PNRR, to counter the devastating effects of the economic crisis and to support Ukraine, hit by the vile Russian aggression. We will be, with a sense of responsibility, always at the service of our fellow citizens, to build and not to demolish. Therefore, I announce the Group's vote in favour of the future Democratic Centre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u35	MARINO (IV-PSI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mrs Senator of State, today we face with several stops and go Decree-Law No 70 of 2022, commonly referred to as the tax simplification decree. It was a decree-law awaited and considered of considerable importance for the simplification interventions that our country had long hoped for. But it has become another thing compared to expectations, also because it is managed at the turn of a government crisis and therefore with more problematicities. I shall not dwell, except for the shorthand report, on the now reckless question of de facto perfect monocameralism or imperfect bicameralism, which forces us today, in this House, to a mere act. I have already had the opportunity to address the problem here in the Senate, which brings me back to the well-known story of the 2016 referendum. In the same way I will not dwell, except for a quick mention, which I will develop later, on the complex situation in terms of the results of the legislative process so managed and the previous constitutional of loose Chambers that work at full speed - indeed, more - in an obnoxious way. In this case, however, we are faced with a sum of micronorms, almost a coacervo: in fact, we have gone from 47 articles to 61. I feel a positive envy for my colleagues in the House of Deputies, who have been able to properly deepen this decree-law, and a little less for us. But instead I want to reason on the positive and innovative bearing of this decree-law and at least of its guiding principle, then partly distorted in the context of conversion. I personally wanted a thread of continuity with the tax delegation law n. 23 of 2014, a small Grundnorm - let me say - which gave the Government a delegation for the realization of a fairer, more transparent and growth-oriented tax system; a series of delegations were implemented, except five (on the land register, on the collection of local authorities, on games, on environmental taxation and on tax justice; three of these were at the center of the attention of this legislature). In it the principle of friendly tax was theorized: an oxymoron, someone could say, but it is not so. Look at that in Italy, when it comes to taxes, there is a commuting motion of Vichiana memory. On the one hand, there are those who want an easy collection of consents with promises of condones; but what is less educational than a pardon, which takes away from the will to apply the norm, because so much then will be forgiven? On the other hand, there is a vision of an IRS "Dracula," which tartass the citizen. It has been said, precisely in these days, of the proposal of Secretary Letta on the inheritance tax and the assets; the Letta Government was exactly what did the last increase in VAT, in October 2013. Instead, we hoped for a long perfection of intuitions that started from afar. I was talking about the innovative scope of the decree-law: we certainly greatly appreciated the issue of digitisation, which creates a second time for the positive effects on the taxpayer and digitisation itself. We recall, for example, e-invoicing, considered more on the side of the investigations and the contrast to the tax gap and less from the point of view of the friendly tax and compliance, in order to improve the quality of life of the taxpayer and to decrease his anxiety regarding the post-declaration checks of the incomes, which were entrusted to the tax and where he risked being sanctioned, even if not responsible. We are talking about the so-called work in progress on the single allowance, which has had an overcoming of the difficulties of passing through and starting the new family allowance in relation to children with disabilities. We guarantee equality of resources for families who, with the launch of this new instrument, risked losing something. There is the theme of faster tax refunds and there is the step forward towards a discipline on the transferability of tax credit for the 110% tax bonus, with which we finally hope to have reached a standstill, because the various regulatory interventions had generated a confusion not more easily manageable, neither for the citizens, nor for the operators. There is a rule that allows for the suspension of de minimis tax credits to companies. In other words, there are various measures to simplify the relationship between taxation and citizens. Then there are the battles that our colleagues from Italy Viva have been able to do to the House, according to what I said before, and that they are facing taxpayers, be they citizens or businesses. The principle of keeping and maintaining any accounting records electronically and in digital systems has been introduced, working for a dematerialization and a reduction of bureaucracy. We have extended the F24 discipline; we have imposed the obligation for the Revenue Agency to communicate to the taxpayer, via SMS or app IO, the end of the investigation activity. A law has become immediately applicable, which prohibits the financing of companies producing anti-personnel mines to financial intermediaries based in Italy, which had seen its path in the sixteenth legislature, which had been approved in the seventeenth, postponed to the Chambers, reapproved in the eighteenth and now finally becomes operational. The universal single allowance has been extended for children of certain categories who were excluded from it, for example the employees of the State resident abroad; a universal single allowance which I consider a great and happy intuition made by Minister Bonetti. Then there was the introduction of a series of rules to add substance to the reform of the third sector, which began at the time of the Renzi Government, and we intervened to modify the code of the business crisis. Many small examples of good administration: fruit of experience, which is an added value; fruit of common sense, which either you have it or you do not have it; fruit of competence, developed but more important than ever; fruit of generosity, that of putting the interests of part of the country. These considerations certainly did not move those who did not vote for the trust on 20 July last to President Draghi, assuming the responsibility of interrupting a virtuous path, consisting of structural reforms, objectives achieved and to be achieved for the provision of funds related to the implementation of the PNRR. Are we aware of what autumn awaits us? We have an increase in inflation that has never been so high since the eighties of the last century; we have an increase in the cost of raw materials; we have an increase in interest rates that will rise on mortgages and therefore on families; we have a decrease in domestic demand, in a geopolitical scenario where the war in Ukraine adds tensions between Serbia and Kosovo and in the Chinese Sea (news these days). They save us partially - this justifies the latest Istat data - exports and the changed ratio of the euro-dollar exchange rate. All issues that will be addressed by the most with the eye only to the electoral logic of the whole and immediately or, at most, the next day. Not all of us can aspire to be statesmen who reason with the long-term perspective of the good of the next generations, but as politicians we cannot even reduce ourselves, at a difficult time like what awaits us, to being pseudo-sounders who reason not thinking about the good of the future, but an easy collection of consensus based not on what is good, but on what is thought to be pleasing. By doing so, in fact, one will rule not a country but a figurative pile of rubble. As Italy Viva we do not reason this way: for us the good of the country is a priority value and, as we have shown already in the past knowing to take difficult choices, turned out in the immediate unpopular but then recognized fundamental for Italy, also this time we will do our part by voting on this measure with the look on the future and not the poor logic of the contingent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u38	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I must say, unfortunately with a certain custom, that this time too we have faced one of the least positive features of this parliamentary term, that is to say monocameralism, which is now high in principle. We were faced with a decree-law which, in the competent Commission, the Finance Committee in which I have the honour to participate, did not even have time to examine: it arrived, but in a few minutes we had to fire it to bring it to the House today. Therefore, not only monocameralism, not only contempt for the tasks of parliamentary institutions, but in fact also a failure of any attempt and will to improve, as should be done, this decree-law. We have been forced to table amendments in this House that we would have liked to table and debate in the Commission, but that was not possible. We have tabled them in this House, Mr President, and we have obviously seen, for the sake of time, reject all our proposals. Entering a little bit on the subject, we note that this measure, the so-called simplification decree, is actually another omnibus decree, which contains a little bit of everything and in fact comes to be a sanatorium for irregular immigrants. Article 43, paragraph 3, in fact represents a suspension of proceedings on illegality and illegal immigrants and is accompanied by paragraph 6, again of Article 43, which provides that in the face of a simple application, the offence is extinguished and the residence permit is actually obtained. So, in a simplification decree-law you also introduced a sanatoria on immigrants: it does not seem consistent or absolutely agreeable. For this reason, Brothers of Italy with its behavioral logic could never have voted in favour of such a rule. A rule that represents - I want to emphasize - discrimination against those immigrants, President, who apply from their home, who have not violated the laws, who have not wanted to make illegals, who were waiting to arrive in our country on the basis of the decree-law flows. So we also discriminated against honest immigrants against illegal immigrants. This is what is contained in the so-called Decree-Law simplifications: a provision that had nothing to do with this argument. Mr President, many things could have been done if it were to be simplified. Just turn around any professional studio, talk to any entrepreneur, with any craftsman: how many simplifications you could do. Brothers of Italy, as I said, had tried to make a further contribution in this direction with the amendments tabled. I would like to mention a few here because we cannot think of criticizing without explaining what better could have done. For example, with reference to Article 3, I believe - and I think so many of my fellow accountants who are listening to us can only share - that we could simply repeal the periodic VAT clearances. In e-invoicing, the State has all the elements available without having to ask for further compliance from companies, craftsmen, traders, small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, their consultants. That was a simplification: to eliminate the periodic VAT clearances by Article 3. We could also mention Article 9, where you have provided - in my view also correctly - for so-called systemic loss companies, for the repeal of the rule that provides for comfy companies; so you have given relief to those companies that are at loss not because they like to be at loss, but because the crisis of recent years makes it possible, unfortunately with some ease, to go to loss, in at least two of the last five exercises. You have therefore removed from the absurd discipline of comfy societies this type of society, but I believe that an act of greater simplification would have been to eliminate the whole path of comfy societies. I remind those who are not of the profession, ladies and gentlemen, that the rule provides that companies are taxed, are obliged to declare revenues on the basis of a percentage imposed by the State; percentage, for example, on real estate ranging from 4 to 6 percent, so we expect revenues that are supposed to be there. If they are not at that level, they are being taxed in a clearly presumed way. A simplification, especially at a time like this, was not only to turn to companies in systemic loss, but to extend the path to all societies of convenience. I quote another amendment proposed by the Brothers of Italy: I am thinking of repealing at least for the construction sector of the so-called reverse charge, that is, the reversal that occurs in VAT, which in fact constantly creates problems for our small enterprises which, not applying VAT, are serving VAT upstream, the one that they must reduce. This leads them to go to credit and to have to ask each time refunds that come late in time enough to force them to resort to bank credit in order to meet their liquidity needs. So why didn't you simplify, by eliminating the reverse charge at least in the construction industry, which is so heavily affected by it as by other measures? Another step of real simplification would have been, for example, to raise the limits of the flat-rate. Why do you continue to maintain at 65,000 euros the flat rate that could be raised to at least 100,000 euros? You would have made life easier for many small businesses that have serious difficulties. You didn't. On the other hand, Mr President, the logic of taxation has always prevailed, of suspicion towards the enterprise; those logics which, perhaps, in the tax delegation contain the land register and therefore the desire to create a parallel income and then clearly create the conditions for taxing the assets of Italians, the houses of Italians or perhaps predict, as the Secretary of the Democratic Party, Enrico Letta, a further capital tax on inheritances, in order to create further welfare towards young people. Perhaps, instead, it would be enough to use other sources of income, to give young people job opportunities, according to the principle: more work, less taxes, as proposed by Brothers of Italy. The more you hire, the less you pay taxes: in this way, you give an answer to young people without work; not giving them a tip, perhaps electoral, since we are in elections, and proposing, on the other hand, to create a tax, that maybe would penalize so many young people, who have inherited some assets, but who do not have the income to support and be able to pay the tax. These are the proposals of a serious party, of a party like ours. I would also like to refer here to Article 40-c. Let there be a question from Brothers of Italy, who highlighted how you, in the previous decree, with a hand gave the tax credits to companies in difficulty, who have to pay the gas and energy at high prices, but then applied the European de minimis and you went to remove them. I remember that you have put this right thanks to a question that in recent weeks Brothers of Italy presented. Also in Article 40-c you gave an answer to the problem of the transfer of the credit on the superbonus. Finally say what Brothers of Italy have been telling you for months about the previous decrees: you cannot have the limit of May 1st, because obviously, with this limit, you did not free the tax drawer of banks and insurance. However, when you listened to the Brothers of Italy, you planned to make a first circular of the Revenue Agency, which makes the assignees responsible for the claims against the truthfulness of the credit itself, making them jointly with the banks. So, you canceled the effect that, with one hand, you had granted. Mr President, for these and for many other reasons, Brothers of Italy will not be able to vote in favour of this decree and we will commit ourselves with the Italians to really doing simple, clear reforms in the next legislature and in the interests of all our companies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of the conversion of this tax simplification decree. The work was done in the House, because obviously it was not possible here, and we close in beauty, as in our tradition, without making any changes. However, improvements have certainly been made in the course of the Commission's work in the House, which have led to progress on a number of issues which are certainly not minor. In particular, one step forward has been to regulate the eligibility of tax credits for tax bonuses. It is not exactly what was thought, perhaps in the case of the inclusion in the aid decree, but perhaps there is some hope of recovery. I stress the new tax legislation for the third sector, which certainly represents a fairly important step to allow thousands of social realities in the country to look ahead with more tranquility and continue to work at the service of people and the community. It is, moreover, the result of a long work done by the National Forum of the Third Sector, which had already asked since 2018 to put hand to tax legislation. On the transfer of the tax credit, I said just now that at the last moment a number of changes have been included in Article 40-c which we hope will lead to the release of the transfer of the credits. As you know, the changes made in the conversion of the aid decree have not been sufficient. Other issues concern the increase of incentives for electrical means and simplified procedures for regularising immigrants. There is also a measure that we hope will help to simplify people's lives, those who do not have business and must make tax returns and whose lives are increasingly complicated by bureaucracy. The stop to the preservation of receipt of medical expenses for 730 is certainly a small element of simplification. As you know, their preservation in all these long years has produced a number of problems for people. The tax authorities will report the end of checks on investigations, and this too is, in my view, an element not only of simplification, but also of loyalty in the relationship between the State, the Revenue Agency and the individual citizen. Other measures have also been included which are certainly not significant, but which we want to emphasise. I am thinking, for example, of the adoption of the amendment for the AIFA precarious, which is a small thing, but still a signal. In the final legislative term, some positive measures have therefore been included in terms of simplification. We would have liked stronger and more effective measures from the point of view of simplifying people's lives and some provisions could easily have been included. However, the work done, which we can only record, sees us partially satisfied. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u44	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is undoubtedly taking place in a particular climate. The burning heat that you breathe outside this building perhaps best represents the moment we are living. It is a time of difficulty for the country, forced to cope with the increase in food prices, petrol and bills and the increase in poverty figures. But it is also a moment of political difficulty generated by irresponsible choices that are leading the country to live an electoral campaign that has never known these times. When I speak of irresponsibility, I do so not because I want to use this space to campaign or advance useless recriminations (it would be, in fact, a further unnecessary waste of time). I am speaking of irresponsibility because I merely take a photograph of what we are doing in these hours, what my fellow Members have experienced during the hours when the Draghi Government fell and they were amending and deliberating the measure that we are about to ratify today. It is no coincidence that I use the term 'ratification', because once again this branch of Parliament has been able to do little, Mr President. I believe that the Italians still sought answers, hoped and hoped until the last moment that politics was able to give them concrete answers regarding the many problems that grip the country, the lives of families, workers, businesses and instead received as a gift an electoral campaign in the middle of summer, made under the umbrellas, in mountain huts and in the brown cities inhabited only by those who do not have the opportunity to go on vacation. Let me say, however, that I am proud that the Democratic Party Group in the House and Senate has demonstrated to the end a great sense of responsibility towards the Government and the Italians. This sense of responsibility is still brought to this House today in the approval of the conversion of this simplification decree that the Draghi Government has strongly wanted, an important measure, with which measures have been introduced in the tax, financial and social fields. The decree provides, for example, for a lightening of the obligations that businesses and citizens are required to comply with towards financial administration, i.e. towards tax. Important innovations have also been introduced, especially in the social field. In Article 26 there are significant interventions for the third sector, the result of intense concerted work between the Ministry of Labour in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the forum of the third sector. After waiting for this fundamental sector of the Italian economy to last an entire legislature, a tax package of rules on the reform of the third sector is finally launched which the Government will now have to submit to the European Commission. One of the most important aspects is the clarification of the application of the criteria for determining when an activity is carried out in a commercial or non-commercial manner. These norms will allow thousands of social realities in the country to look ahead with greater serenity and thus continue to work for the good of people and the development of communities. The relevance of these rules is not limited to the tax and accounting organisation of institutions, but concerns the very nature of the social and economic fabric for which the third sector plays an irreplaceable role. Five years after its launch, the process of implementing the reform of the third sector, which will thus be able to deploy all its potential, is finally completed. The hope, of course, is that we can proceed quickly with the EU's green light for the speediest entry into force of the new rules for both non-commercial and social enterprises. From the fiscal point of view, it deserves to be mentioned the work of colleagues of the Democratic Party of the House to allow the release of tax credits prior to May 1, which risked to remain firm and which would have severely damaged our companies: with the approval of the decree, it will be easier to surrender these credits. I could continue for a long time, Mr President, to list the speeches that are being made in this measure to meet the many needs of citizens and businesses, the many VAT consignments of which are very often heard in and out of this House. It is regrettable to note, as always, that while someone tries to offer solutions, to work to change the lives of people without populism and demagogy, someone uses certain themes to bring us back in an atmosphere of perennial electoral campaign, that election campaign that someone here has sought with force, giving weight to the electoral needs, bartering the effort to build answers with the desire to feed propaganda and seek new consensus. The result is before everyone's eyes. Still in these hours, while someone blows on the fire of fears always attacking those who are on the margins of society and struggle to have a voice, the Democratic Party is building its own electoral campaign with the same attitude that it has held over almost four and a half years of legislature, with seriousness and concreteness, continuing to put the ideas, proposals and solutions at the centre of the citizens' problems. This is exactly what this measure and the action of the Draghi Government were doing: to solve at least in part the problems of families, workers and businesses in the only way we know, with seriousness, competence and sense of responsibility. With the same seriousness and responsibility, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the entire Group of the Party of European Socialists, which will help to simplify the lives of so many of our fellow citizens. [[Applause.]] (17.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u47	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax simplification decree we are about to vote on outlines one of the steps in a broader programme of tax simplification reforms that our country has been waiting for for a long time. However, it also deals with other issues: it contains, for example, a reform of the procedures for the collection and payment of the Treasury of the State, some further simplification measures in several sectors and specific provisions for the prevention of work, as well as - among other things - the Commissariat of SOGIN SpA and an increase of EUR 70 million for the resources allocated to the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation. These are just a few examples of the broad articulation of the decree, which today more than ever we are forced in this branch of Parliament to ratify in a very short time and in loose Chambers. Forza Italia would have wanted to address the issue of tax simplifications in a much more effective way, aiming above all to improve the relationship between tax and taxpayers in a tax world still too oppressive, articulated and complex. In fact, it is clear that, beyond the heading " Urgent measures in the field of tax simplification" it is a measure that, by its scope and impact, does not affect the matter as desired, but marks a path. In the transition to the Camera Forza Italia has contributed significantly with proposals to modify the basic text that have found acceptance. Among the most incisive interventions of the decree I recall the dematerialization of the choices of destination of 8, 5 and 2 per thousand in the 730 model, the simplification of the procedure relating to the modification of the tax domicile and the procedure for the delivery of the tax refunds due to the heirs, the abolition of the obligation for the CAF and the professional to keep the individual documents of the sanitary expenses, the extension to 31 December 2022 of the deadline for the submission of the IMU declaration and an extension of the cases of exemption from the presentation of the excerometer. The decree allows the elimination of faldons, dematerialization, an important aspect to facilitate life and work, in particular of small and micro-enterprises, reducing compliance and costs. Forza Italia has then supported the passages relating to the modification of the norms of the drawing up of the budgets of the very small enterprises, the abolition of the periodic communication of the liquidation of the VAT, the intervention on the accounting errors and, finally, the modalities of deduction from the value of the production IRAP of the entire cost relative to the staff. Among the very positive measures of this decree we find also corrective and retroactive intervention in the matter of single allowance in order to allow access to the measure also to households composed of at least one adult orphan with serious disability and already in possession of a pension treatment. Then there is the 58 million budget for families to counter the phenomenon of educational poverty. Of course, Forza Italia would have liked to intervene once and for all in the part that concerns work in order to achieve an improved reform of the income of citizenship which, just as it was conceived - and we have all seen it - hinders the labour market and we must intervene on this. [[Applause]] We have always called for less tax and less tax bureaucracy, an objective that has not yet been achieved, but for which we assure all our commitment in the next parliamentary term. In fact, simplification is synonymous with growth and development and we know how much companies are demanding that bureaucratic processes slow down innovation and sometimes prevent creating new jobs. In the last ten years there has been a lack of real programming with certain and structural rules. This, on the one hand, prevented families and businesses from planning their lives and activities and, on the other hand, resulted in limited attractiveness for foreign investment. We are ready to rethink the country system. In the face of our PNRR, it is essential to implement the reforms that have been expected for decades, without which interventions would be sterile and ineffective for a real recovery and above all for the necessary growth. This starts with the reform of the tax system, whose rules have stratified over the years, making it unbalanced, partly because they apply to a reality that has changed completely in the meantime. In the 6th Commission we are still working on the bill delegates for tax reform. It is true that it is not part of the objectives of the PNRR, but it is also connected to it and that it is part of the European Union's recommendations with respect to all the reforms to be implemented to implement the PNRR and to change our country system so radically. If it does not end in this legislature, the next government will have to address this issue, placing it among its first objectives; vice versa the next Executive will have to face the legislative decrees that will be decisive for the realization of the reform. In both cases, therefore, the political group that will win the elections will be important: if it is the coalition of Centrorightstra a real great reform of the tax will be possible, as always wanted by Forza Italia and President Berlusconi, with the objective to protect the savings in order to increase the purchasing power, the investments, the employment and the growth. Tax matters, in fact, are of fundamental importance for our country. We certainly need more courageous interventions on the simplification side, aimed not only at overcoming technicalism, but also at rationalizing the exorbitant number of taxes and taxes characterizing Italy. It is thought that only in August, between payments, communications and accounting compliance, there are as many as 205 tax appointments which must also be added the deadline for the payment of the 2021 instalments of break-up ter and balance and cancellation. Similarly, it would have been very important to put in place a tax peace measure, because, in the light of what has happened over the last two years and of what is still happening, millions of taxpayers are not physically able to settle their debt with the tax system because of objective difficulties. A Centro-Right Government will make a difference from tax matters. Forza Italia is ready to reform the system, having well in mind where to start and how to continue. You need to get a 360-degree vision back. Pending, therefore, the next parliamentary passages on which to intervene in tax matters, the Forza Italia Berlusconi Group President-UDC will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law currently under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u50	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has often been the case with the decrees-laws approved by the Government, even the one we are considering presents a few steps forward in different areas, but it is certainly not decisive. It deserves a favourable vote for the sort of minimum trade union that has managed to guarantee, especially after the parliamentary process, but it is far from being included in a framework of response to the emergencies of the moment and those that will occur shortly. Colleagues, at this moment the Italian economy gives signs of resilience. As estimated by ISTAT, the first two quarters saw GDP growth. Government gross domestic product growth estimates for this year speak of an increase of 3.1 percent. However, as Minister Franco himself admitted at the recent Davos forum, this possible increase of 3.1 percent has a direct impact on the drag since 2021, estimated by the Minister himself in a +2 percent. What does that mean? It is simple: it means that the country is keeping afloat thanks to the excellent performance of GDP recorded in 2021, with that increase of 6,6%, record in Europe [[Applause]] , partly due to the rebound effect after the collapse of GDP in 2020, but partly due to the excellent results produced by the expansive policies carried out by the Government Conte 2 to react to the pandemic. At this point, however, the gaze must turn to an energy pandemic that does not mention running out, to an inflation that still bites, to the global tightening of monetary policies, to an economy of the United States that has just experienced a technical recession and to the index of manufacturing in decline in Germany. The International Monetary Fund predicted GDP growth for Italy in 2023, in drastic decline, by +0.7%. International observers speak of imminent recession and the outgoing premier himself, Mario Draghi, did not hide the obvious difficulties for the economy. Compared to all this it served much more than an appreciable decree simplifications. The decree-law under consideration is an important step to try to increase the efficiency of the tax and tax system. An efficient, slim and modern tax system is the basis of any healthy economy. Digitisation should have had an important role in this simplification decree and instead the issue has only been touched on in passing: the Government and Parliament will need, in the near future, a greater commitment, starting from the expenditure of the PNRR funds. Certainly the parliamentary amendment is positive, which, on the basis of the push and stimulus of the 5 Star Movement, stimulates the mobility of electricity, allocating additional funds. It is to be welcomed, but certainly not decisive, the rule on the transfer of credits related to building bonuses and superbonus, which will allow to unlock especially those communicated to the tax administration before 1 May and also in the latter case the work will have to continue in the next legislature. In the same way, the rule that, in extremis, has raised the thresholds of the VAT debts beyond which the alarm for the solvency of the enterprises is triggered, according to the new code of the business crisis, finally entered into force last 15 July. However, we believe that, despite this softening, consideration should be given to a further extension of the code's entry into force, in spite of the persistent economic difficulties faced by many companies and the signs of recession that threaten the near future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even in this decree-law we are not able to give a decisive response to the issue of tax credits linked to the building bonus and the superbonus, stuck in the corporate tax drawers. The solution resulting from the combined provision of the aid decree and the tax simplification decree, that is to say, to allow banks to transfer credits also to small businesses and VAT consignments and to extend this possibility also to the disposals of the claims communicated before 1 May 2022. It is only a timid improvement, which will not allow many companies to monetize credits to pay employees and suppliers. [[Applause]] In essence, the risk of thousands of failures is not averted at all. Well, I want to say that the Movimento 5 Stars will continue to fight on this, in order to make structural the concessionary system built around the superbonus and make systemic the mechanism that has decreed its success, that is, the yieldability of the tax credits. In particular, we will work to re-establish a multi-annual and total surrender of tax credits, which are also linked to other facilities. We would like to reiterate that once tax credit has been certified and the tax administration has received the definitive placet, there is no reason to restrict the scope of circulation. The mechanism of the superbonus, as Nomisma certified, against deductions cost the State 38 billion euros, has been able to produce total benefits to the economic system for 125 billion [[Applause]] and it can deliver even higher potential, exactly what we intend to propose to facilitate private investment in the energy transition and to bring substantial liquidity into the economic system, in support of one of our country's strategic sectors. Like Movimento 5 Stars, we have always been committed to achieving two important tax developments: innovation and simplification. A road on which - we have to say - the government has often put us in the way. But we do not give up and today we reaffirm with conviction that the obstacles that have stood before us will not stop: we will return to make ourselves heard. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u51	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2469-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators Collina and Ripamonti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am rapporteur with Senator Ripamonti. The so-called draft competition law, which is an initiative of the Government, is a measure which, as we know, is linked to the PNRR in a significant way. The adoption of this bill guarantees, at the end of the year, a significant proportion of the PNRR's resources; it is therefore important for Parliament to proceed at this time with the adoption of the measure. In fact, as you know, we have played a fundamental part in this area of Parliament, and I also believe that the main and most significant part of the examination of the draft law is to proceed positively (I believe). At that time the Draghi Government was in the midst of its functions and so we developed a positive, albeit difficult and complex, confrontation between all the political forces that supported the Draghi Government, reaching important mediations and important agreements. Perhaps it is not by chance that this was the only significant measure that we have brought to this House without the position of trust, here in the Senate, by reaching all the necessary agreements and mediations on the issues of our competence. Similarly, we were able to evaluate together with the majority forces a "division" of the work between the House and the Senate, so the House proceeded to deal with a series of articles that, like Senate, we essentially fired without modifications, perfectly responding to the text issued by the Council of Ministers. Today, therefore, we are faced with a third reading, which of course will not modify the text approved by the House, which correctly analysed only the articles that the Senate had not modified. The original draft assessment of this bill has therefore been respected by the two Chambers. Of course, the main parts were related to both scheduled and non-scheduled public transport, and I believe that the changes made by the House in this area must be emphasised. I am just making this assessment: as stated in the report that we had brought to the Senate at first reading, the so-called competition bill is an important measure that seeks to tackle a path within Europe that aims to give homogeneity to the application of European regulations in the various countries. Each country faces this path with the graduality that it considers more appropriate than the starting date. Each country has its own peculiarities and the path that must gradually lead to the homogenization of regulations at European level reckons with these peculiarities. In the case of Italy, the geomorphology of our country is such that the market obviously cannot give all the answers in the offer of services to the citizens. The classic case is that of public transport: if we had to recover the market conditions in order to carry out the service of public transport, considering the mountainousness of our country and the richness of many of our small municipalities whose citizens have the right to be connected in an appropriate way to the main centers and the main services, we would probably encounter difficulties. The obligation to tender has therefore been removed and it will also be possible to develop the public service through other measures, however contained within the European legislation: I believe that this is the main element. Among other issues, as we know, the article on taxis has been deleted, so this element has been removed from the political confrontation that had developed and every political force will have its own judgment to express. But here, as rapporteur, I do not want to go into the matter. A further article has been added which clarifies the relationship between professional figures who compete in the same field: we are talking about credit brokers and real estate agents. I believe that the Government has made a number of significant improvements over the last few months, also on the basis of the contribution of the trade associations - I would like to mention FIAIP - and, if this conclusion has been reached with the inclusion of this article, I think it has been a positive element. We often discuss what are the areas where competition needs to be developed, regulated and applied; certainly there is no such clarity in some, so it takes sufficient time to develop the necessary insights. At the same time, there are simplification rules regarding the development of infrastructures related to the digitalization of our country. Here, too, a meeting point had to be found between the needs of local authorities in developing these infrastructures and the needs of operators who still have to make significant investments. Well, I believe that a balance has been found; so, if today we come to the bottom with the approval of this measure, we allow this Government - in the more of the spaces of agibility and action that remain - and in any case the next Executive that will settle before the end of the year, to proceed to the exercise of the delegations contained in this bill and then allow our country to receive the so important resources of the PNRR. They serve to make the investments that must lead to a modernization of our country. We are developing a modernisation of the country, made of both infrastructure investments and reforms. That is why I believe that this measure represents a good synthesis between reforms and investments, because this is also the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u54	I call the rapporteur, Senator Ripamonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u55	Madam President, I do not have much more to add to what Senator Collina said, with whom I have played the rapporteur of this bill. I am only pleased to have completed a commitment that the Government had made to Parliament and Europe for the PNRR. Today we establish this concept and it is a very positive result for all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u56	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u57	Mr President, competition is the time, and it is not unfair competition, but loyal to the principles that we have wanted to affirm in all the months that have separated us from the moment when the measure arrived in the Senate until this Senate fired him, and then arrived in the House with the pantomime of taxis and everything that has achieved. We said something was wrong from the beginning. Then I would like to make it clear once and for all. I have dealt with that part of the measure that concerns a piece of the Italian heart: tourism enterprises, beach businesses, those who have ports, land them, in rivers, in lakes; in short, that piece of tourism that, together with the other, occupies almost 4 million people. That tourism that will see you all guests, perhaps, in a few hours, because I hope for you that you will all go to our beaches, to enjoy the professionalism and quality of the national tourist offer. And I turn to the friends of the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement. When you go, tell them who you are, because at least that way they will remember when you came to this House with that government that wanted to support that measure that you loved so much. Once again, it was a real expropriation, without compensation to businesses, without recognition for family businesses, without the opportunity to continue the tradition of national tourism and with the aim of selling it to some multinational friends of yours. Forza Italia, in that Government, was present precisely to prevent those like you from sending home people like us. People who work, who work, who pay taxes, who know that the 16th of the month is not a happy day, but who pay the F24 which is not an airplane, as many of you think. This reasoning must be done in a transparent manner. Today we have a competition law that also concerns the tourism business sector, the beaches and not only, but also all those who have a state property concession and these gentlemen can look to the future with serenity, with the possibility to work again, them, their families, their children and their grandchildren, investing, billing, paying taxes and respecting the rules. Well this is only our and the League's merit. Together, we have pursued a reasoning of seriousness and respect, fighting six months in this House and ensuring that that law did not come out as you had thought, but in the interests of tourism businesses. If we hadn't been there, someone would have been expropriated by the beach by now. The competitions would probably have already started; 30,000 Italian companies, one million people of induced, would look around without knowing what to do and the tourism company, the tourism sector, that Italian engine that is tourism, would have suffered a serious damage. This is the answer that I want to give, as a Member of Parliament, as a person who deals with tourism and as an exponent of Forza Italia, to those who ask us what we have been doing in that Government. If we hadn't been there, it would have been trouble! It would have been a tragedy! If we have an important perspective today, it is because we have carried out that work with a sense of responsibility. It's easy, it's too easy to stay out, criticize and repeat: wrong! Wrong! Wrong! You gotta get your hands dirty! [[Applause]] If you're a public administrator, you have to put your face on it and not stand outside pointing your finger. You have to stay inside, change the rules, do it in the interests of citizens and do it for the economic development of this country, defending the first Italian economy: tourism. That is why we are convinced of what we have done and on 25 September, if the citizens, as I hope, will give the centre-right a large majority, we will still change that rule as we would have liked to do. We will try to incorporate the right of pre-emption for dealers and we will look forward, with a serious government perspective, in respect of work, employment and an economy, the Italian one, which must be safeguarded. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lorefice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking again today on a subject which has already been dealt with by the last European law, which was adopted only in November 2021. I will only talk about Article 28, which concerns the repeal of a rule which, I repeat, had been incorporated into European law 2019-2020, concluded in November 2021. This provision provided for the incompatibility between the profession of real estate agent and that of financial intermediary. With the new Rule 28, as amended in the House of Deputies, all this fails. Therefore, this forecast, which also contributed to the closure of an infringement procedure for incorrect transposition of European legislation, was going to heal a serious situation of discomfort and difficulties for the many citizens who turn to this world. You will therefore go to impact definitely on who wants to buy a new house and does not have all those financial and family covers that many Italians - I repeat - perhaps have. We had therefore created a new standard to avoid conflicts of interest, because this is what we are talking about. The real estate intermediary and the financial intermediary would become two distinct professions, without the one being able to have a double benefit and gain. With the legislation under consideration, as approved in the Chamber of Deputies, the same person will have the double advantage and will certainly not protect the interests of the individual or young couple who wants a home and a future, that is, the guarantee of having the right treatment that those in conflict of interests certainly do not have the will or the will to carry on. In addition to this, the amendment approved to the House extends even more the compatibility between professions, including between financial intermediary and broker of insurance, reinsurance or financial advice. But it's not just that. I would like to provide some elements of evaluation to make it clear what happened to the House. Almost all of the trade associations (the most representative and most of the financial advisors) were opposed to this extension and mix. In addition to that, I would like to point out that the House has committed a breach of a pact. In loose chambers, with a government running current affairs, there should have been unanimity of intent on the part of all political forces. Instead, the House was forced and, although there was no unanimity (in view of the opposition of the Movimento 5 Stars and also of another political group), it went ahead. Last but not least, I would like to point out the violation of a general rule mainly linked to the entry into force of Legislative Decree No 142 of 16 October 2020, which recalled the intervention of the Competition Authority and the market for the expression of a mandatory opinion as a third party body on proportionality. The Authority had to express its views on this amendment. This measure is likely to trigger a new infringement procedure. That is why I also call on the presidency of the Senate to check whether the introduction of this new rule can open the door to an infringement procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I repeat the difference between the 5 Star Movement and the other political forces: on the one hand we have those who always defend the citizens with the sword, especially those who have great difficulties and, on the other hand, the rest, those who perhaps defend the lobbies and the interests of finance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u61	Madam President, the tortuous process that led to the annual draft law for the market and competition was born under the directives of Europe which, because of the need of the countries most affected by the pandemic, bound this bill to the objectives of the PNRR, thus linking it to the third tranche of aid. In this context, it is clear that Italy loses yet another opportunity to make its voice heard, thus ending to sell its resources, from bathing concessions to tourist guides to local public services, stripping Italy of its latest sources of work production and national wealth. These provisions require the placing on the European internal market inseparably linked to the general market of goods and the management of public services which form part of the constitutional property, which has as its aim the pursuit of general interests and therefore cannot be transferred or managed by private individuals or private limited companies, worse if to public capital, which must pursue the interests of individuals or shareholders of the company managed by their own board of directors. In particular, it is a question of giving private individuals the management of essential public services, as well as the distribution of water, which is a public good par excellence, especially in these periods of climate change and serious drought. Article 1 also aims to promote the development of competition in order to ensure access to markets for smaller companies, taking into account the social policy objectives related to the protection of employment under the principles of the European Union, and to contribute to the strengthening of social justice, improving the quality and efficiency of public services, enhancing the development of investment and innovation in relation to the protection of the environment, safety and the right to health of citizens, but which is immediately removed, showing in reality how behind this competition bill the lot of privatisation or sale of essential public goods is played. Article 8 empties the functions of the municipalities of the guarantee role played historically by the local public services, creating a sort of two-speed modus operandi, very fast for the private companies that provide the service that only draw up an annual report on the quality of the service and the investments made, tortuous for the public that must justify the failure to resort to the private one also paying the charges. Article 8 is vague on the concept of local public service, thus bringing back all services; given the lack of a precise listing of these services, it is concluded that the will of citizens is ignored, which in 2011, by an overwhelming majority of voters (97%), approved the referendum on public water. [[Applause]] With Article 8, it becomes prohibitive for municipalities to keep services in house. In Article 16, on the other hand, there is the weakening of the National Health Service, another private business that, instead of being implemented and improved in order to be usable and efficient for citizens, leaves more and more space for private individuals, who will do gold business. Article 30 on the control of goods does not take into account the real needs of citizens and the need to have controlled and safe goods, but only facilitates some companies by ensuring faster control processes. The deletion of Article 10 on non-scheduled public transport on the one hand meets the demands of trade associations, but on the other hand relegates the issue of non-scheduled transport in the most remote and impervious non-urban areas into oblivion; the demands of small and medium-sized local traders, which are the cornerstone of the economy of Italian cities, vexed by the crisis and the ruthless unfair competition of e-commerce, are totally ignored. Writes the jurist Paolo Maddalena, vice president emeritus of the Constitutional Court, that the reality of the constitutional order is clear and defined: the goods either are in private property or are in public property (Article 42 of the Constitution) and in a community state the public property coincides with the common property [[Applause]] It is up to the people as their sovereignty, I repeat, as their sovereignty. Today the common ownership of the people, the so-called common goods, consisting mainly of artistic and historical goods, the landscape (Article 9 of the Constitution), as well as strategic industries, essential public services, energy sources and the monopoly situation (Article 43 of the Constitution), once almost always belonging to the State and to territorial public authorities, have been cynically privatised. It was made so that, through the fraudulent transformation of the public body into a SpA, they passed from the common property of the sovereign people to lestophants of all kinds [[Applause]] , as well as multinational companies and financial operators. Less State and more private has not taken away national wealth from a State a legal person, considered as a third subject compared to citizens, but from the entire Italian people, a structural and essential element of the State community. I start to conclude, not using all the time at my disposal. The dismissals are increasingly frequent; the life of the workers is considered of no value compared to the prospect of earning the employer, who opens and closes the factories as he likes, delocalizes them or causes them to fail, throwing entire families on the pavement, causing the national economy to collapse. The scissors between rich and poor have expanded due to the current predatory economic system, that neoliberalism that has made even the lefts fall in love [[Applause]] ; a predatory, cynical, illicit and unconstitutional system that has reduced many sections of the population to poverty. This failed neoliberal fetish, which has produced recession, war and despair, must be known and fought. Title III of Part I of the Constitution considers legitimate only a Keynesian economic system, which produces work and wealth, not poverty and unemployment. I finally close, Madam President, because we have been robbed - as the jurist Paolo Maddalena concludes - of our common heritage, consisting of common goods in public property of all citizens. Remember: those who profess neoliberal ideas, who enrich the rich and impoverish the poor, are not worthy of governing this country. Paolo Maddalena says so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u62	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u63	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining the draft law on the market and competition, which has already been approved by the Senate and then amended by the House of Deputies, in particular with the deletion of Article 10 on taxis. The rules of the draft competition law are coordinated with the objectives of the Government in the PNRR, with which the Commission has undertaken to lay down rules on various sectors, from local public services to energy, from transport to waste, through market surveillance. The purpose of the draft law is therefore to promote the development of competition, including in order to ensure access to markets for smaller companies, to remove regulatory and administrative barriers to market opening and to ensure consumer protection. The adoption of the bill is one of the last appointments of this legislature: we know well what happened a few weeks ago. Despite the crisis, however, this reform, which is crucial to achieving the objectives, goes ahead thanks to an agreement of the former majority that has decided the green light. Common sense has wanted the government to give in on some issues so as not to waste time on what is contained in the delegation that we are about to approve here. The draft law represents an important stage in the reform process envisaged by the PNRR and is indicated as one of the draft laws linked to the 2022-2024 budget maneuver. In the PNRR, the Government has undertaken to implement the planned annual frequency of these laws. This is an explicit recognition of the work of the Berlusconi Government, which in 2009 introduced the adoption of an annual competition law, already strongly wanted by the business world at the time; however, this rule has been disregarded so far, considering that to date the only one that has been approved dates back to 2017. Although Italy is the eighth world economy, it is in the thirtieth place in the world by level of competition. Only a few sectors have benefited from the drive of the competition provisions; provisions aimed essentially at allowing new players access to the supply of goods and services, resulting in lower charges for users and final consumers. However, competition is not only a market instrument, it also serves to protect the non-economic interests of the business community that represent national specificities and the most vulnerable. Forza Italia has approached the bill on competition with the utmost attention and with a collaborative spirit. As soon as we are in the government we will take up again the issue of bathing, which was discussed earlier and which we want to make clear that we will really try to solve the problem to the very end. We managed to bring home three results: time, compensation and values. The time because until 2025 it will probably not change anything and with us the Government will change to positive; we have brought home the compensations to recognize to those who have worked so far, to those who have taken a piece of beach and transformed it into a business, what has invested in the unfortunate case that the concession is lost. Above all, we insist that at this moment we must respect and think about those who work, because at this moment it seems that in Italy it is smart who does not work and who perceives the income citizenship [[Applause]] However, we must protect our businesses, our families, our VAT consignments and our workers, who go on every day, pay taxes and, in any case, find themselves also damaged by those who benefit from the income of citizenship, because it is not personal. At this moment Forza Italia is on the side of the workers, on the side of those who invest in tourism; we are on the side of the development of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u64	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u65	Mr President, we are going to examine at third reading a measure which, with regard to Article 15, has an inherent criticality, already noted by one of the most important trade associations, because it is not treated in the same way as the public and private distributors in the new system of evaluation monitoring and control of health and social health benefits. Since this vulnus was not passed during the examination in the Chamber, removing in the title the words "private" after structures and "private" after distributors, as we repeatedly requested in the majority meetings and as well technically highlighted in the dossier studies in Chamber and Senate acts. Since this is a mere material error, we propose to remedy it irrationally, with an interpretative agenda or with other measure deemed appropriate promoted by the Government, as it is absolutely essential to foreshadow a scenario that takes into account the obvious disparity in the treatment of the different distributors, in contrast to European regulations, since rules of quality, safety and appropriateness applicable to all structures, according to principles of objective traceability, responsibility and transparency. I hope that you will welcome this latest call, thereby avoiding future distortions of application and unnecessary recourses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u66	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u67	Mr President, senators and fellow senators, representatives of the Government, in Articles 22 and 23 of the Decree-Law in conversion, we find additional simplification rules to facilitate the creation of the fibre optic network and, more generally, ultra-wide band networks. We have already legislated to oblige operators of physical infrastructure, such as natural gas, water, road, metro and rail networks, to ensure the use of their pipes and in general their infrastructure for the passage of fibre cables. Unfortunately, obstacles remain, and infrastructure managers often refuse to pass fibres. Today's text is intended to limit cases of refusal only if the physical infrastructure is objectively inappropriate and justifies its specific reasons. The other point of simplification obliges civil genius and network operators to coordinate, in order to prevent duplication of works and to allow the sharing of the costs of realization. In the absence of available infrastructure, the installation of high-speed electronic communications networks is carried out with low environmental impact excavation technology, with innovative techniques that do not require the restoration of the road surface, as well as the laying of air cables or tubes on existing infrastructure. With these micro-provisions we try to chase the considerable delay in the realization of our infrastructure of the future. The ultra-wide banded network was a project conceived twenty years ago. For the first fifteen years we have heard administrators of public bodies and companies bask in little more than words and proclamations, and then suffer the sound rejection of the European Union and the various DESI (Digital economy and society index) reports, which has classified us to the last places in Europe in the development of digital infrastructures. Finally, in this legislature, we have run a lot, thanks to the will of the Minister Pisano, the Undersecretary Liuzzi and the new administration of Infratel, who have paved the way for Minister Colao. We have recovered a lot of lost time and allocated all the calls, but we still remain stuck in our bureaucracy and overlapping infrastructures that do not cooperate effectively and often stand in the way. In the meantime other countries do not waste time, because they know that that of the telecommunications network is the technological challenge that confronts today the major global powers. If we get stuck with secondary optical fibers today to get to homes, the others challenge themselves to submarine cable systems. The United States and China are expanding considerably, with very different business models. The US is favoring the hi-tech giants, such as Google, Amazon, Microsoft and Facebook, who are becoming owners of many of the submarine cables thus becoming extraterritorial powers not only in data management, therefore, but also in infrastructure. Another strategy has China, which moves with its own state-owned companies. Europe is very slow: to put a totally European cable from Portugal to Brazil, of 6,000 kilometers, it took ten years. At the same time, China has laid 600,000 kilometers, a hundred times as much, and it aims to cover the whole world. Two models, the American one and the Chinese one, now unattainable for Europe. If the scaffolding of the global communication system depends predominantly on submarine fibre cables, the constellation system of low-orbit satellites is also emerging. The first visionary was Elon Musk, with the SpaceX project, followed by Amazon's Kuiper project; but Macron has been insisting for some time that Europe should include this technique as a priority (a matter of sovereignty, he says). In fact, the French Eutelsat and English OneWeb companies are moving forward on this issue. Italy could also work with its own skills, but more vision and investment in development, including cultural development, are needed. Italy has peaks of excellence, but then it always clashes with poor programming in the medium and long term. Today we see that there are no teams of technicians; the school must contribute to the programming for the growth of the country. It is not acceptable that our telecommunications companies have been slowing down for years because they do not find skilled workers for the installation of fibre optics. Italy's delay in this area is also caused by a school that is unable to train professionalism able to advance our country. During this parliamentary term due to the Movimento 5 Stars we have invested and recovered a good part of the delay accumulated in the previous fifteen years; but it is still not enough to give the country prospects to become one of the protagonists of the European rebirth in the digital system of the future. A country like Italy, located in the middle of the Mediterranean, crossroads between the west and the east, between the north and the south of the world, should aim to invest much more, starting from the school and aiming at the realization of technologies and systems integrated in the European and world networks, but of which it can have direct control. For the Movimento 5 Stars the smart nation continues to be an important goal to reach and for us a commitment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u68	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u69	The rapporteurs do not intend to speak in response. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u70	Mr President, more than one reply, this is an opportunity for the Government and myself to thank President Girotto, the rapporteurs, Mr Ripamonti and Mr Collina and all the members of the 10th European Parliament. Commission, together with my colleague Catherine Bini, who shared with me the whole part of the discussion in the Senate. The speeches in general discussion highlighted how difficult this regulation was, with so many issues affecting the different sensibilities and different knowledge and with the involvement of many ministries. It is clear that it has not been easy to manage the sharecropper in relation to the two branches of Parliament, with half of the measure on the one hand and half on the other, and to find the mediation points. There has been an effort by all and progress has been made; we leave to the next Government the implementation of the delegations contained in this provision. Mr President, I do not want to go any further, but let me just thank all of them - and, in this case, to do so as a senator - for these four and a half years spent together, apart from the different opinions and belongings, but I believe that all of them are united by the common interest of doing good to Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u71	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Rule 1 will not be put to the vote, as it will not be amended by the House of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 3 to 8 will not be put to the vote, as they will not be amended by the House of Deputies. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As a result of the deletion of Article 10 when examining the measure in the Chamber of Deputies, the subsequent articles changed the numbering. Articles 10 to 21, in the new numbering, will not be put to the vote, as they will not be amended by the House of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u74	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I wonder whether, even at the end of the parliamentary term, it is appropriate that a senator of the Republic should continue to be a "pianist" in the Forza Italia Group. I ask if the cards of those who are not physically present can be removed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u75	Senator, Secretary Senators are looking into this, and it seems to me that they haven't noticed anything, so the votes are more than regular. Everyone votes for themselves. [[Comments.]] The Secretary Senators, who are here for this, are controlling, Senator Pavanelli, so we don't make useless disputes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 28, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. I note that the agendas of the G28,100 were presented, signed by Senator Ferrero, and G28,101, signed by Senators Gallone and Toffanin. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u76	I am in favour of accepting this as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u77	The government accepts both agendas as a recommendation. Alternatively, I invite you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u78	I would ask those present whether they insist on the vote. Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, ma'am. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). No, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u79	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas of the G28.100 and G28.101 are accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments of Senator La Mura.]] Articles 29 and 30 will not be put to the vote, as they will not be amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 32. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 33 to 36 will not be put to the vote, as they will not be amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u82	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on is a fundamental part of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, on which, among other things, its implementation depends. The draft competition law is the essence of mission 1 of the Plan: "Digitalization, innovation and competitiveness in the production system" The text touches many arguments, laying the normative bases for a sure better future, from the transports to simplifications, from the authorizations for the activities of enterprise to the measures on the ports, the telecommunications, the gas and the hydro-electric services, the waste, the societies participated and the reimbursements direct extended for the civil liability policy (RC) auto, on competition in the services and the strengthening of the powers of the Antitrust. Nevertheless, such an important measure, containing fundamental norms, linked to many aspects of our country's life, has crossed a road that is not simple, full of obstacles. I would like to start by stressing the issue of bathing concessions, together with the maritime state property. In fact, the measure extends ope laws to 31 December 2023 the effectiveness of state property concessions and management relationships for tourist-recreational and sports purposes, with extension at the end of 2024 in case of litigation. The provision also provides compensation for outgoing dealers, thus dissolving one of the thorniest nodes faced in recent years. Another key point concerns gas and, in particular, intervention on tenders for the natural gas distribution service. Let us remember that the matter is still governed by Regulation 226 of 2011. This government - which is still in office, albeit in the light of current affairs - is fighting at European level for the inclusion of the so-called European ceiling at the price of gas. [[Applause.]] Moreover, it is a theme - that of gas - on which Together for the Future-Civic Commitment has always fought. At this point, it is necessary to point out with sadness the ruinous iter that involved Article 10. The guilty government crisis triggered, among other things, the deletion of this article, which would finally have defined a delegation to the Government for the necessary and expected reform of public transport not scheduled, i.e. taxi and rental with driver, i.e. the NCCs. The deletion of Article 10 is a bitter and sad failure and the protagonists of this failure are the parties, who supported the unauthorized protests of taxi drivers; parties guilty of supporting the protest of those who not only interrupted a public service, but also declared that they were unavailable to any reform. The sad episode was that the Government of discharge could not do anything but proceed with the deletion of the whole of Article 10, in order not to extend the technical deadlines for the approval of the measure in Parliament and, even worse, to sacrifice the whole measure. As far as health is concerned, a number of articles concern the pharmaceutical service, the distribution of medicines, the refundability of those equivalent together with those pending pricing and licensing of medicines, access to the health service and accreditation of facilities, including selection procedures for health management. As we have seen, the text touches on a number of subjects and introduces several delegations to the government which will be set up after the next elections. The operation will therefore not be easy, without forgetting that time is running out. Mr President, today it is necessary to approve the draft competition law and do so as soon as possible, because, by not adopting the measure, we place at risk one of the targets necessary to collect the funds of the PNRR. Italy cannot afford to take further risks. It must be demonstrated that it has chosen to continue on the path of necessity, abandoning partisan pride and the ruinous clashes that put the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan at risk on time. We are part of a great National Reconstruction Plan, for the realization of which we all have the duty to work together, to ensure the growth and development of our territory and our individual realities. We cannot fail to see how this measure constitutes a unique and unrepeatable opportunity, which can allow us to raise our country. The PNRR allows us to relaunch, allows us to grow again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for these very reasons, I am voting in favour of Together for the future Democratic Centre and I hope that this measure will be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u85	CRUCIOLI (UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-Pr.SMART-IdV). Mr President, today you adopt the competition law, which would be more correct to call the privatisation law. It's a delegated law. Now, I understand that, at this moment, you are very committed to creating lists and to getting them back to you; however, I would like to draw your attention to a little thing, which is our Constitution, which, in my opinion, would not allow the loose Chambers, therefore under the extension regime, to delegate a Government, which is precisely delegated only to the handling of current affairs. Today, instead, you delegate a very important part of our country, that is the reorganization of services and public goods, to a Government that will not be able to give you implementation, because it resigns. So, basically, you're delegation to the government that's coming, and we still don't know what it's gonna be. Therefore, I wonder how it is possible that a delegation which presupposes the trust between the delegate and the delegate, i.e. between Parliament and the Government, can be given this way, especially if it has such broad and generic principles as those under consideration. It must also be borne in mind that the content of this delegation concerns precisely the privatisation of local public services and, in some respects, the complete revision of the rules on concessions of both beaches and ports. In a case like this, where there is the prediction of a principle of privatization of everything that until now was allowed to be managed in public hands by the municipalities (I think of local public services, such as water, transport and waste), the forecast of strict criteria for a government in which one has confidence would have been fundamental. There is even worse, however, because in this case things are even allowed that go completely contrary to competition. Let's think about the concession of the harbour terminals. Today it is possible to have only one terminal per port, while with this law delegation will allow the same subject to have more terminals. As for both the beaches, and the ports, the idea is conceived that large subjects take in concession more stretches of beach or more harbour terminals, and then give them in subconcession, allowing therefore rents of position that until today were more difficult to obtain. So, basically, with this provision you lay the foundations so that the small ones - whether they are the small managers of bathing establishments or terminal - are taken out and supplanted by even larger groups, that they can then sub-grant what they cannot manage directly, lucrating on the rent of position. The content is, in my opinion, very dangerous and will increase costs. The cost that today we support in order to go to the beach or that of the transport through the terminals will be doubled, just as the costs of the local public services will be increased tomorrow. As for the modalities, I note that this delegation is given by Parliament - in this case the Senate - to a government which cannot implement it. Therefore, the next government will be called upon to do so, whose characteristics we do not know. All this makes me say that not only constitutional principles, but also those based on our system, are failing. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to what you vote today, also because you no longer have the gun of trust in your temple. The government can no longer build trust and you are finally free to vote exactly what you want. Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, I ask you how you can vote a delegation on such sensitive issues in favour of a government that tomorrow - probably - will be center-right and will not see you participating. Today you are delivering the keys to the privatisation of local public services and the zeroing of competition on beaches and ports to a government that tomorrow will use this delegation in an even more negative way for the Italian people than its own content. For these reasons too, we reiterate our opposition and will not vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u88	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft competition law has an extraordinary importance among the reforms of the PNRR, it is a priority and, despite the crisis of government, guiltfully dictated by futile reasons, with the consequent dissolution of the Chambers, we are completing it. Complete the process of approval in the third reading of the Senate and, even more, complete the decrees implemented by the Government has a numerical meaning: 21 billion. This is why it is absolutely important that all the objectives of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are achieved by the end of the year. It is a priority because well-made competition helps our country. Well-made competition means fair, peer-to-peer, which does not reward rents of dominant position, but instead allows the pursuit of the specific aims of the bill for competition: social justice, economic effectiveness, quality of services, lower tariffs and, again, investment and more work. In the process of approving the measure, we have made considerable changes to the text approved by the Council of Ministers. The Senate and the Chamber have tried with determination to lower those norms in the business reality, in the reality of the local Italian authorities, trying to balance the sacred principles of competition with the concrete effects they would have on strategic sectors for Italy. The first of these strategic sectors is the energy sector, but other services such as those have also been redefined and amended in order to have as their objective the usefulness and the social protection. All this was possible thanks to the work of Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin and his ability to listen and composition. We did not succumb to the pressure of the organized groups, but we listened to their proposals, when they were constructive, and the same excellent work was being carried out by Minister Bellanova on Article 10, regarding the transport of taxis and NCCs, a mediation that would have made the conditions symmetrical and possible competition between peers and that would have been very positive, if only the action of this Government had not been interrupted by some politicians who suffer from strabismo, because they saw excessively enlarged the priorities of their personal interests compared to those of the country. In this bill for the market and competition, there is a priority that is really the first right now for the country, the energy one. That is why our attention to the renewal of the concessions of the large hydroelectric derivations has been particularly strong. We are experiencing a huge energy crisis, which has impacts on dear energy. the Government Draghi, until today, has put to earth 33 billion and is engaged to launch the next decree aids with ulterior 14 billion credits of tax for the energetic and gasivore companies, the road haulage, the energy bonuses, the families and the abolition of the general burdens of system. All this, however, has a very heavy impact on our accounts and on the Italian macroeconomic situation. The April Economic and Finance Document already measured high energy at a percentage point less than GDP. It is true that our GDP today is excellent thanks to the drive of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the confidence that this Government had generated in the business fabric and investors. However, if the dear energy were to continue and, even more so, if we had energy supply problems, our GDP could fall dramatically by more than 2 percentage points. This is the reason why we have listened to the concerns of those who considered the hydroelectric a strategic asset for Italy, a very important asset to achieve that energy independence that the country needs so much. We have therefore adopted a number of amendments, because we are aware that hydropower must be enhanced, which already generates 20% of energy produced in Italy and 40%, if we look only at renewable sources. It has an Italian supply chain of components, contrary, for example, to wind or solar, which have foreign supply components; moreover, without prejudice to the current drought, it does not suffer the problem of intermittency, as instead happens for the wind and the sun. For this reason as Italia Viva we wanted and supported the inclusion of the legislation on golden power, so that the Government could monitor that, at the outcome of the custody procedures, the protection of this strategic asset for Italy was always the first place. We wanted the public-private partnership procedure to be a priority for redeployments, because it allowed for more innovation, greater sustainability and greater investment even in respect of the environment. We then looked at the reality and flexible the dates for the renewal of concessions. Many regions in Italy had not yet renewed their regulations and we have given more time to complete the regional disciplines and to carry out the races of reassignment (three years from August 2022). That's not all. I am also particularly pleased with the rules that have been written for the special autonomy, which obviously has many large hydroelectric derivations; being a mountainous territory, in it is generated much of the energy of the country, regulating the operation of its own power plants and redeployments with the special Statute. By amending the Special Statute, we have aligned the expiry dates with the national ones: moreover, it would have been a very unbalanced competition, if only a small territory had competed before. We have extended the golden power; we have made sure that, if it were decided to extend the national competitions forward, those of the Autonomous Provinces would also be automatically extended and extended. We have also done something that normally is not done in the competition decrees because, as a European regulation, competition automatically applies also in the special territories. However, we wanted to include the safeguard clause, to reiterate that the arrangements for reassignment are, once again, governed by the special Statute. These were decisive steps and I must thank my colleagues from the SVP Group for the excellent work that we, like Italia Viva, have done together. The protection of energy produced in the territories of the Regions with a special statute is obviously not for the benefit of the autonomy, but for the whole of Italy. We are aware of the strategic importance of this measure and also of the very delicate moment in which its definitive approval is placed: even more and with even more conviction, on behalf of myself and of the whole Group, I announce the vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u91	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy can only confirm his vote against the measure under consideration, which was characterized by an institutional stew: troubled articles approved in the Senate, others approved in the Chamber, excerpts and a concept of competition in reality much closer to that of sale; a sale to the detriment of Italian work, of those people who every day do their duty to bring the bread home and who work without guarantees, only by the force of their professionalism, and who obviously the Government and the majority have not been able to safeguard in the measure under discussion. For this reason we have voted against it in a convincing way here in the Senate, then in the Chamber and we will do it again today, as we have already done on all the articles, because for Brothers of Italy the defence of Italian work is a priority and a possibility that does not allow compromises. The bill contains general claims that even support competition for professionals. Does it mean that you want to abolish professional orders, that you want to decimate our professionals, that you want to continue in that evil project of the so-called Bersani sheets to proletarianize the liberal professions, with a serious damage in terms of guarantee for customers? There are also the shameful auctions, both as regards hydropower and for our beaches. We have made a commitment, we have consistently fought alongside them, but we want to project this commitment in the next parliamentary term, because we are convinced that this bill contains a very serious injustice. If we have heard from the father of the Bolkestein directive that it does not apply to state property concessions because it concerns services, we do not understand why the government has gone on to the end towards these people and these 30,000 Italian companies that give jobs to so many people and that represent a story of excellence of our nation. To see them treated in this way, truly indignant. We have hoped until the end for a rethink; we have always been present with our amendments, even at the time of the European delegation law, because we believe that these people should have a different perspective, as we say since the adoption of the budget law in 2019. People who have made investments cannot be seen expropriated in this way of the work they have done with dignity and honor for so many years. We have also witnessed a press campaign against them, in which they have been painted as scroungers of the state because according to some they pay poor canons. To these people I would like to remind you that the Italian beaches did not determine their fees themselves, but they paid exactly what the State asked them to do. This story, this rhetoric, is not acceptable in order to arouse indignation and social envy. It is true that unfortunately in recent years we have witnessed an action of some political forces that have founded their claim of consent only on this, generating envy and division towards the Italian social body. In these last days of Pompeii, I believe that many have the conviction that we have reached the end of the line. In the new legislature we will have to remedy the many distortions that have taken place in the various measures, but in particular those which have taken place in this measure. No to Bolkestein, no to the expropriation of Italian work, no to auctions: this represents for us a moloch, a very precise commitment, which after the judgment of September 25 will continue to represent one of the highest priorities of Brothers of Italy, in the reaffirmation of the value for which, in a meritorious society, we all start from the same point, but those who are better at sacrificing themselves must go further and reap the fruit of their work. The solution is not, cannot and must not be the income of citizenship. Those who expropriate will be expropriated and on September 26 we will have the basis for a new government, led by our leader, Giorgia Meloni, that puts hand to the real reforms of the country and not to those demanded under the dictation of the interests of the multinationals and of all those powers that want to make the people weak and humiliate those who instead did and want to continue to do their work. For this reason, I announce the vote against the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u94	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we shall vote on this measure, which has received a contribution from the work of the Commissions, the Senate sooner or later in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to make three premises: competition is certainly a fundamental element, but it requires some clear lines of action. First of all, there must be certainty that there is equality between the parties involved. Secondly, it is necessary for there to be reciprocity, being a European norm, between the different European countries: if for example it is allowed or will continue to be allowed that the enterprises of one country can work in another country, with the contracts of own country, this is certainly a problem and therefore it will be necessary to homogenize the rights. From this point of view, Europe has long been discussing a rule that recognises fundamental rights for all types of work. The third key issue is that contractual guarantees, transparency and regularisation of markets have homogeneity and consistency. I recall these principles, which are true principles for me, because all too often one falls into ideology and representation, which is also bankrupt compared to real experiences, according to which private management is always better than public management. This is not the case, as the French teach us, as the Anglo-Saxons teach us and as the Germans teach us. We have extraordinary evidence: let us think, for example, of the management of natural monopolies such as motorways. We have seen the problems, not only for the Morandi Bridge, but also for the A24 and other major motorways. It would be appropriate to think seriously about these aspects, starting from the fact that we have improved this measure. I would like to address my colleagues who have spoken of privatisation: let us understand that the problem is not solved, but certainly we have succeeded, by changing the rule proposed by the Government, in building a balance with regard to the evaluation by the Municipality, which must decide, motivate and understand well whether the management of that service can be entrusted to the private or if it must be ensured to the public management. I remember that the original measure instead posed a radically different position, the opposite being that of not motivating the choice (in house, in self-production or in private); this posed the theme that, if it had been decided to go into self-production, it would have had to motivate the decision. But there's another problem here (we've changed that too). When we talk about services, not all services can be evaluated in the same terms. One thing is economic services, another is social services; from this point of view we have introduced an important clarification. And again, when we talk about service management, we can't just make economical reasoning. I would like to explain, and I would like to thank my colleagues in the House, who have amended Article 8, in line with what we had done on the municipal public services, exactly in the same terms. Let's be clear: it's okay if I contract the local public transport service, but economically unsustainable services (e.g. picking up kids or people from the mountains) who runs them? And how do I value the economic offer in relation to these services? I value it because I have to have a minimum service plan that I have to guarantee to the citizens, even with public resources. If we look at what is happening in this country, you will find, colleagues, that there are public companies that have managed to manage their budgets and guarantee the services and private companies that produce an absolutely disastrous quality of services. Attention, I do not want to be misunderstood, because it is too easy (elementary, Watson): I am not saying that everything must be public and I am not saying that the public guarantees the services better. I am saying that we need to make an assessment of the merits and have a real picture. We are not excited about the work and balance we have achieved, but we are pleased that some fundamental principles, which go exactly in this direction, have introduced them. We are delighted to have introduced the golden power clause for hydro. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very special situation. As the Deputy Minister has said, which I thank with conviction and not pro forma for the work carried out with us, there is to exercise the delegations and this will be up to the next Government. I do not know who will have the majority and I do not know if this new majority will want to start again, perhaps after 12 years, for example on the beaches. I think that those rules could finally allow us to build a balance with the compensation for the investments made, without changing the production mesh and the quality of the services. For example, it is essential not to put into competition large portions of these beaches, because we keep to the full the quality and characteristics of these services. If we have the opportunity to do so, it will depend on what the citizens will say and on the choices the next government will make. It took us 12 years to make a rule. Shall we start over? I look at you, Senator, and I know you think the same way. For these reasons, our vote on the measure will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u97	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, the so-called competition bill is a significant and important measure. At this moment it is inevitable that evaluations will take place which, surely, would not have taken place under different conditions. We are on the electoral campaign and, instead of demanding important joint work on this measure, we will inevitably prevail over the emphasis on the statements that, in future, depending on the wishes, everyone will make regarding the possibility of amending this measure in some respects. I believe that this is an aspect that will make the work done a little 'deficit, because I believe that at times when we have all faced this measure together we have tried to look at high mediations, significant agreements, something that held us together in the interest of the country. Today we are no longer in this condition, so evaluations take different paths. I believe that one aspect must be stressed: Europe is trying to take an important path that seeks to make European territory homogeneous and the conditions that must be faced in individual countries by citizens and businesses. What we have been through in recent years - I am referring to the pandemic and, in recent months, Russia's conflict with Ukraine - has actually led to an acceleration at European level in this process. Europe, Europe's citizens and European businesses have found that they are stronger if they do things together, that they are able to cope with the difficulties if they succeed in achieving the goal of working together for an overall regulatory framework that provides citizens and businesses with the same opportunities and protections. I believe that this is a point that we must bear in mind because the high risk I see is that this objective and this awareness are being significantly questioned. Colleagues, I do not make it a matter of internal politics and electoral confrontation, because, even with regard to the energy crisis of these weeks, Europe has started by saying that it is to be dealt with together with a single common choice, and in the end the States have opted for a save who can. In fact, the various differences with regard to the issue of energy supply to Russia have not allowed - each for its own starting positions - to find a point of agreement. You understand, then, that the European perspective is at great risk today. We must also be able, through measures such as these, to keep the bar straight; I believe that this is a goal for all of us. In addressing the outstanding issues, I would like to stress an important work of the House with the delegation on simplifications related to investment in renewable energy. We have often been discussing the difficulties of the so-called permitting, the timing, the bureaucracy, the various levels that overlap in order to make effective investments in renewable energy. The need to address this issue has led the Government and Parliament to include simplification rules, which will be delegated to be exercised, but I believe that this is an important step. There, in the ecological transition, much of our future is played, in my opinion, and I believe that this is something to be noted because, objectively, in so many approved measures we have failed to fully address this issue. This is a legacy that this parliamentary term certainly puts in the hands of the next one, and I hope it will be dealt with in the right way. Speaking of competition, we have tried to find ground between different points of view; I do not want to call them ideologies because that is not the point. We are in a system that we know very well and with which we know what, if any, corrective measures must be put in place. Well, that's what we've been thinking about. I would like to stress this point precisely because we look at the country as a whole and at the prospects of a country that needs to develop in a positive way. So, not starting from scratch, let's think about what needs to be the correctives to the system we're facing. These are corrective measures which have achieved a positive balance in my view. We have many diversified experiences in managing our country's public services. On the one hand, we have positive experiences, with the local authorities that have been able to value the assets realized in many years of investment, but have brought them to the market and on the stock exchange, so that today they generate positive returns for those communities, also in terms of positive results on the industrial managements, but above all on the bills that the citizens pay. On the other hand, we also have public experiences that have been able to stay within those evaluation parameters that decide what is the efficiency of a service. Competition and the market, in fact, need rules and they also need players to put these rules into practice in their evolution. There is not only the market, but also the construction of market regulation authority, which can accompany the market to give the right and efficient answers to citizens. The example of ARERA, in my opinion, is a classic example of how, in recent years, in the face of the growth and development of the supply of local public services of economic importance in the field of energy, water gas and waste, an experience of regulation and verification of those that are benchmarks that define the efficiency of a management: whether public, private, on the stock exchange or directly of a municipality has grown. This, in my opinion, is something to be emphasized, because it is with respect to these parameters that we must increase the supply in terms of quality and efficiency of public services in our country. If we do not know that this system must grow synergically, then we are really in danger of making capital mistakes. The work that was done was a positive job. The last point I would like to make is the subject of bathing concessions. Many of you have done so and you will probably be campaigning. However, without the approval of this draft competition law and its Article 2, there would have been a regulatory vacuum that would have caused disasters and damage to all these entrepreneurs. What we do today, that is to approve the bill competition with these contents (then there will be the delegation to be exercised), is fundamental. On the other hand, there are those who, while declaring themselves liberal, are in fact neo-corporate and anti-European and decide to disguise all this by defending jobs and businesses. No, you don't! It is precisely by approving the draft competition law that we give certainty to companies and entrepreneurs need these certainties. And without this draft competition law the concessions would have expired and we would have thrown this sector into chaos. Therefore, the Democratic Party will vote firmly in favour of this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u100	TIRABOCHI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, first of all I would like to thank the Minister and Undersecretary Bini for their attention and patience in listening to us. I would also like to thank the two rapporteurs from the Industry Commission, Mr Collina and Mr Ripamonti, who have led us in the examination of this extremely complex measure, not only from a political point of view, but also from a technical point of view. In fact, addressing some technical issues, which obviously had political implications, has led to important work for the two rapporteurs. This measure is considered important not only because it is a milestone required by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (and we are not repeating everything we have heard about it), but also because it is a measure required by the market, by consumers and, if we want, also by the production fabric. If we do a little history, we know that we spoke for the first time of competition in 2009 during the Berlusconi Government, on the occasion of the connection to internationalization, then the issue of competition was no longer addressed, while it would have to be dealt with from year to year; it arrived again in Parliament in 2017 during the Renzi Government and finally in this Parliament we redesigned it in terms of great collaboration, also because the views - we know - were very different and it was complex to bring to synthesis many facets. I spoke of a complex polyhedron with countless faces: think that we talked about bathing concessions, local public services, local public transport, fiber optics, postal services, simplification, many issues that impact on the productive fabric and it was not easy to achieve synthesis. We have reached this synthesis because in the end we all, in a responsible way, wanted to take a step forward, forgetting the annuities of the past and if we want also the nostalgic attitudes and preferring to look with a great sense of responsibility to the economic future of our country, but above all to the economic future of an Italy within Europe, a continent in which we want to try, with the authority of this country from a productive point of view, with what declines with the term of Made in Italy, to draw European industrial policy. We also want to do this through competition in order to be able to count in a globalized world where - we all know, it is useless to hide it - giants operate and we cannot act in this globalized world as if we were small mice, we absolutely must act with instruments that allow us to win the competition. It is also true what Senator Errani said: competition is not necessarily the instrument that regulates a perfect market, because unfortunately there are so many imperfections in the market, so we should start from reciprocity, equality, transparency and contractual guarantees. All this clearly lies in the authoritative policy, which must be able to fill in the delegations of content that take into account all these principles which obviously help a little more healthy competition. I would like to make one last very brief reflection on a subject from which I believe that the next Parliament should start. We are talking about the free market, liberalism and globalization, because this is an issue on which politics is called to reflect. Globalisation is not a monster, no matter how much my friend and deputy minister Pichetto Fratin knows that I have criticized her many times. That is not to say that we must become globalists, because we would be truly anachronistic, that is, we would like to wage war against windmills and it would make no sense. Globalisation is a pervasive phenomenon and it is a phenomenon that exists, but it must be regulated, regulated and brought back to some perimeters that, in my opinion, have slipped out of hand. Nor can we overlook the fact that with globalisation in thirty, forty years a significant part of the world has been enriched; it is useless to hide this from us. But it is also true that, especially in the last twenty years, this globalization has shown, if we want, all its negative aspects. Think of how a smaller part of the world's population has been enriched and how significant parts of society have become impoverished. I believe that attention must be paid to this, always trying to give priority to merit and competence, also having a look at those who are in a situation of greater difficulty, because then we must try to put all the tapes in the same condition, even those who are in greater difficulty, who must not go further behind than others. I am convinced that competition must also take these aspects into account, and that is why, on the one hand, I actually think of it as Senator Errani, when he says that there are public services that must pay attention to those sections of the population who are worse off. I am also convinced, however, that not all the economic world must be managed by the public: just as there is not all the beauty in the private, there is not even all the beauty in the public. [[Applause]] I therefore believe that a virtuous public-private partnership, which takes the best of the public and the best of the private and can bring them to a synthesis, is a model of economic management that can make us look to the future in terms of economic growth and development, socially and also culturally sustainable. The same finance is looking at these parameters: I think of the ESG parameters, to which we have never paid attention. I say this because that world also has to change, that is, not only the world of the real economy, but also that of finance, a finance that in my opinion is good, if it looks at those parameters and if it is aimed at supporting the productive, real, virtuous economy, the economy that makes GDP, the economy that expresses that hidden potential that in our country is still significantly high and that must absolutely find its composition in economic terms for greater growth, as well as for more sustainable growth. Let me take a very last thought, especially after the Russian-Ukrainian war, which will show us a very different world: we have already seen a very different one after the pandemic, but we will still see a very different one after the war. I personally see two strongly opposed blocs: on the one hand I see the blockade of liberal democracies, in which I find myself, substantially expressed by Europe and America, while on the other hand I see a block of illiberal autarchies, which finds the highest expression in China. I think that Europe should try to keep the bar straight and therefore never forget absolutely the importance of liberal democracies: we should always and only fight for growth, well-being and development that will never make freedom lose. [[Applause.]] (at 7.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u103	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Madam President, this is my first explanation of vote in four and a half years: I am doing it at the end of my term and it is a strange and a little anomalous. I must say that I am also a little excited that, in order to avoid making bad figures at the end, I am now announcing my Group's vote in favour of this measure. I would like to take this opportunity once again, after having done so at first reading, to thank the Commission, Mr Girotto, who wisely conducted its work, Mr Pichetto Fratin, who, with as much wisdom and also with firmness, had the opportunity and the ability to keep us at bay, the Undersecretary Bini, who, with patience, kept the barefoot who had put their hands to this measure at bay. Finally, I would like to thank, but not least, my co-rapporteur, Senator Collina, with whom we are honored to have brought to conclusion the provision in the Senate in a not simple and even unusual way. As Senator Collina recalled during his report, in fact, the measure will not see the light with the vote of confidence, but through a great process of confrontation within the Groups on a fundamental issue, as well as directly for the PNRR, which is that of competition. The adoption of this draft law is a fundamental act for this legislature and the PNRR tranche. As I am in the pre-election period, I have a reflection in the following terms. The term responsibility is evoked very often; even during the crisis of government there were difficulties and everyone said that we had to be responsible and that we had to translate this responsibility into measures, so if Parliament had by chance decided to put an end to a moment of community and to go towards the elections, because we would have run the risk of not approving the measures. Some would say that it was a bit of a path like that of the game Ciapa not: the responsibility is yours that you make it fall; no, it's mine; no, it's that other one's. What has happened has happened; at last the voters will have the opportunity to make their contribution and decide the next government. It is certain that the responsibility of this Parliament has never been challenged, because today we are approving the draft competition law. [[Applause]] We therefore also reject the whole narration that Parliament is made of washing. That's not true, we've taken on our responsibility, we'll continue to work all week, we'll come to the Senate when it's time to do it, because there's still so much to do. Therefore, beyond the fact that the elections were held on 25 September, this Parliament continues to work and I am very proud to be a member of it. Changes have been made in relation to the text approved by the Senate at first reading; amendments we hold on to and on which we have worked. As my colleague Errani mentioned earlier, we have done a great job on the part, to me very dear, linked to the 'in house of the audience; we have reversed the concept for which it was said that everything that is in house is not wrong and that everything that is private is not fair. In some way we protect all our communities of mayors and administrators, who together have found the synthesis even when they were not together from the political point of view, yet have had the ability to form societies that manage our territories well. During the examination in the Chamber the fundamental theme was that of taxis, which was deleted and I believe that a good job was done. He hasn't brought a country to its knees and I'd like to use a term without being accused of saying the wrong things. The draft competition law has tried a little to force the hand on some issues, including taxis, and I must say that without Damocles' sword of a ruling of the Council of State on the back, Parliament has found its synthesis and made an absolutely conscious choice, that is to exclude an issue that from the beginning, from the first meetings we held at Palazzo Chigi, all the Groups, no one excluded, had posed as problematic. [[Applause]] I have to say that there has been an issue that has created some embarrassment in the world of credit mediation and real estate agencies, that of incompatibility between the two systems, which has never been in question. Some time ago a change was made that fortunately in the Chamber, through the amendments to the draft competition law submitted by Forza Italia, the League and other groups, was put in place, so incompatibility has failed. I also thank all those associations that took charge of being spokesperson, first of all the Italian Federation of Professional Real Estate Agents (FIAIP), which created the conditions for there to be a minimum of responsibility and awareness. I do not want to use all the time, also because the session is almost over, and so I would end with a topic that is very dear to me, that of bathing. I know that this is an issue that has not been touched on in this branch of Parliament, but perhaps a minimum of narrative - or rather narrative - which brings everything back to a proper dimension must be done. There was a law, No. 145 of 2018, done well and negotiated with Europe, which had the need - like today's competition law - to be "grounded" with the implementing decrees. The Count I Government has fallen - we do not enter into the merit of why it has fallen, although history has said that perhaps it was good to do so - and the Count II Government has not closed the implementing decrees. So I would have the pleasure to hear once in a while, even on the political side that is dearest to me, that of center-right, not only an accusation against those who today - as I will say later - have secured a section, but also against those who have not "put down" Law No. 145 of 2018, which has a name and a surname and is called Dario Franceschini [[Applause]] , who was Minister of Tourism. I don't know if the perfect storm was created, because then things happened in a rather abnormal way, almost as if there were a great director behind it. Dario Franceschini did not "put down" the implementing decrees, Europe was mocked, rightly, because we said things and we did others and at that point, when politics does not do things, someone else always comes and does them. Thus came a decision of the Council of State that said: "be patient, what you have done is not good, I disapply Law No 145 and by 31 June 2023 you must go to public evidence". Right or wrong, political or non-political, high or low, lean or fat, is irrelevant: this was the Maginot line we were supposed to be in. It is about the sense of responsibility, because whether you govern, like it or not - and leave us blood, when you govern in situations like those in which we governed - you have to be responsible. [[Applause]] The sense of responsibility leads you to recognize, to the full, the cards and rules with which you are playing at that time and the decision of the Council of State is there. When someone says: I don't care, because we don't have to go there, but we have to go and do this or that, I, Paolo Ripamonti, who grew up on the beach, who have friends who do this job and I have people who write to me every day and who insult me a little every day, telling me that finally, since there are elections on September 25, the package is over, I say I am proud to have voted on an amendment that has secured them. To posterity the arduous sentence, because until proven otherwise, until 2024, since the mayors find the strength to do what they had asked (so we are not ready to make the auctions, we are not ready to make the evidence and ask for an extension) in some way are in safety, because there are the compensations and there are the rewards [[Applause]] These are all things that someone doesn't want to see, but beyond that, because we will be great and win the election and because the coalition will form and at that moment we will all be there and we will all be responsible, we will do a great job and all together, looking in our eyes, we will say: this can be done and this cannot be done. And, God, we're all gonna make a decision together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u106	ANASTASI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of a law that has had at least a troubled and tormented process, with more than seven months of discussions, even very heated. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would once again like to ask Members for the courtesy of being silent. ANASTASI (M5S). Seven months is also more than what our President-in-Office of the Council had foreseen, which would have liked the law hesitated in just four months, the time of two decree-laws, because now the unit of measurement of Parliament's times are the decree-laws. Instead, it took us seven months, in which we discussed animatedly. The law on the market and competition is annual. We should have been at the twelfth edition of this law, but we are actually just in the second. But we are clearly improving: the first annual law has been hesitated after two and a half years of discussion, we have done much earlier. In this law we download the ideologies, ideas, ways of thinking and also the opportunisms of some political parties, who use this law for their own gain. It is easy to trace the matrix of ideologies: we talk about hyperliberalism, we talk about pushed liberalism, we talk about privatizations tout court, wild, in all sectors. On the other hand, the President-in-Office of the Council was in favour, in the 1990s, of the liberalization season, in which pieces of the State were sold out. I use the word "sold" because then the private individuals who bought those pieces of state sold them, after a few months, at tenfold prices. This hyperliberalism ended up within this bill. It is the legitimate battlehorse of the center-right: for them the market is superior, all goods and services must be put on the market, because this will reduce costs, improve service and increase competitiveness. Well, in the face of this conception of the State and of the opposite conception of staticizing everything, which still resists in a certain left, we have put ourselves in a pragmatic, correct and just way. We said that the market is right, but, careful, the market is not perfect and it is not the panacea of all evils. The market has limits and these limits have been seen in this bill, when attempts have been made to privatise local public services in a clear and indiscriminate manner. We in Movimento 5 Stars have done the right thing: we have put an embankment and we have said that, if we want to liberalise local public services, we can do it, but we must not penalise those who do it publicly, i.e. the public administrations who do their job well. [[Applause]] This was our point of honor, indeed shared by other political parties as well. We have defended this principle by sword, because we are convinced that there are goods and services from which the State cannot abdicate. There are goods and services that are strategic: I think about defence, water, local public services. And what about, for example, the great hydro-electric derivations? We've secured those, too, because they're a strategic asset. My colleague Andrea Cioffi in the price-cutting decree has inserted a rule according to which the auctions will be, yes, on the large hydroelectric derivations, but under the hat of the golden power. [[Applause]] The state must be there. Here I quote from memory former Minister Bersani, who said that he was careful to give up pieces of state, because, when the State loses pieces, that thing does not do it anymore and, if he does not know how to do it, he does not even control it. This is the great truth. There are things the state can't lose, because otherwise, if it doesn't do them anymore, it won't even be able to control them anymore. [[Applause]] In fact, in this bill we have been glued to the majority. Practically there were opposing situations and we, in the right, correct and serious way, have given everyone the opportunity to see them differently. We've been glued to this majority for 18 months, thinking this through. For eighteen months we have been giving this part of the hemicycle the excuse to govern with this part and this part of the hemicycle the excuse to govern with them. [[Applause]] The moment we said, "I'm sorry, but if you're all kicking us a little bit, let's get a little bit clear and take a step sideways," most of us have come apart. In fact, we were the glue of this majority and, when we decided to make the situation clear, here came the truth: there were opportunistic behaviors of some political forces [[Applause]] who actually had everything at heart except the interest of the Italians. [[Applause]] I must say that such behavior is not bad for a force that unfortunately has been pointed out in a bad way as full of people run away from home, like that of the champions of assistantism: yes, I remember these words. I have to say, to be champions of welfare, we did something good, too. A few days ago, for example, an independent report came out on the positive effects of our law, the superbonus 110 percent, and that report says that, compared with 37 billion invested by the state, 125 billion gross domestic product were generated on the other side and 600,000 jobs were created, of which 400,000 direct and 200,000 indirect. [[Applause]] It's not bad for a welfare force. Everyone looks inside himself, looks inside his house and says what he has done for this State and for the Italian workers. [[Applause]] I remember looking at my colleague in the Commission's work, another thing we have done - I could quote dozens of them but I only mention one because time is tyrant - namely the so-called decree-law dignity, which has turned so many fixed-term jobs into permanent jobs. Has he created a new occupation? Some accountants present here will say no and argue that the relationship is one by one: but this is the account of the accountant. The politician, who looks at the economy and tries to unite the economy and the social, makes a different reasoning: those who are fixed-term are afraid to spend, do not see the future, do not invest [[Applause]] ; when the work is transformed indefinitely, the worker begins to spend, to make plans for the future, to buy house, to think of a family and to the development of society, and that development involves gross domestic product and jobs. [[Applause]] I do not want to quote other laws because I would bore you and my time is running out, but one thing I want to tell you. Today we must vote on the so-called competition bill. In the face of what I call a fake real liberalism, and in the face of a fake stateism on this side of the House, we will do the right thing: we have changed this measure well, we have done it in the right way and we will say yes to this bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u108	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u109	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, this measure returns to the House because the position of taxi drivers has been removed, and I am also pleased: it will mean that Uber will be able to return to office on the next round, perhaps with the next President of the Technical Council not voted by anyone, but who always opens the doors of Palazzo Chigi to multinationals and strong powers. So the taxi drivers are safe, but the government had to take a scalp: it chose the one of the beaches. The titles behind the Dragons Government, the Dragons and the majority that supported it, however, see it written that someone must sacrifice himself to a strange idea of competition. It's up to the beaches, exactly those small entrepreneurs who are not seen all year round, but who have to challenge the sea and the weather, have to deal with nature that makes nature during the winter and autumn period. Well, they have to pay the price and are not worthy of the attention of a government accustomed to opening the doors to multinationals. Yet, our beaches, our small entrepreneurs, have been and are still the guardians of the coast; they are those who organize themselves in small business activities, they also work crafts in small boats, cabins, deck chairs, small restaurants. Here, they are the guardians of the Italian beaches, coasts and coasts, and they do not, of course, do so with that prosopopopea of evaders and exploiters that has been described in these days. On the contrary, the danger is that this measure will put the Italian coasts almost in the hands and in the availability of the great groups. I'm ready to make a bet, that is that soon we will see maybe the Benettons, the Marcegaglia, put their hands on the Italian coast, on those Italian beaches that will now have to go to auction. That's why Italexit votes no and embraces the entrepreneurs, the Italian seaside resorts that are currently crying because of the government. [[Applause from the UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-PrSMART-IdV Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u111	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u112	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, we have reached the end of this parliamentary term and the competition measure has been adopted. It should be done every year, in truth, but it has not been done; only one has been approved throughout the legislature. Many are the norms inserted and that the Movimento 5 Star Group has managed to adjust. This adjustment thanks to my Group's proposals means that I do not vote against it, but I will abstain, because there are so many good measures, but there is one that does not allow me to vote in favour. In particular, I refer to the rule - current Article 31 - on the RC Auto. Mr President, I have waited five years to propose a change to a measure that we had longed for in the previous parliamentary term: a fair Auto RC, because it is not possible that 29 Italian Provinces pay much higher insurance than all the others. I refer, for example, to Pisa, Rome, Naples, Taranto and many other Provinces. There are 18 Provinces of the North and the rest of the South - a little across Italy - that were waiting for ever approved implementing decrees. In the draft competition law, compulsory discounts have never been activated due to significant technical difficulties in defining the standard reference requirements for black boxes. Here, we had proposed a simplification of the black boxes: two lines deleted thanks to which the compulsory discounts could finally apply. I was sent here to Parliament from a territory that loudly calls for the RC Car Fair. Since this measure has not been implemented, I cannot vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S and UpC-CAL-Alt-PC-AI-PrSMART-IdV Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u113	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u116	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I must, unfortunately, once again make a speech on the murderous events that have taken place in my province. On Sunday two corpses, father and children, were found in Cerignola's farm, closed in two bags. This has plunged the entire territory even more into dismay and terror. It is the eighth murder in the Province since the beginning of the year and follows the one that occurred in San Severo about ten days ago. We do not know the causes, the perpetrators and the perpetrators of the double murder, but we must admit that, despite the successes of the State in the last five years in the fight against the mafia, despite the hundreds of arrests, despite the hundreds of anti-mafia operations, this territory, my territory, is still in extreme difficulty and has a vital need to strengthen the police and justice authorities. On January 13 of this year, during the question time, I had asked the Minister of the Interior, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, to strengthen the public security device in my territory: more men and more women than the Forces of Order. Above all, however, I had asked, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, to urgently raise the Commissariats of San Severo and Cerignola to top-level structures, with all that follows in terms of men and women and economic resources. So far we have received no response, despite our solicitations and despite murders, extortion and attempted murder. I take advantage of this opportunity to compliment the forces of order, remembering that just a few days ago an attempted murder was foiled against an entrepreneur; murder that, as we discover from the interceptions, should have "educated" all other entrepreneurs not to rebel against lace and mafia. Unfortunately, we are in this situation. [[Applause]] Also on the judicial front, as Movimento 5 Stars we had asked and indicated solutions. We had filed a bill at my first signature to set up detached sections of the Appeal Court, the Anti-Mafia District Direction and the Juvenile Court. Since 2018, we have almost reached the end of this process. The opinions of the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the MEF were missing. These have not arrived and, therefore, I understand that the effort that all of us had made, unfortunately, will not see the light. I renew my call to this Parliament, if it is still possible in the next few days, to reconsider both of the issues that we, like Movimento 5 Stars, have raised. The province of Foggia is in an extremely difficult situation, as the national anti-mafia prosecutor says all the time: the current prosecutor and his predecessor, who spoke of an emerging situation at national level, say so. Well, if a situation is an emergency at national level, we must have the courage to take exceptional decisions and to equip the territory with all the structures that give the opportunity to combat mafias and crime in the most effective way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u119	MAUTONE (IPF-CD). Mr President, today, 2 August 2022, the 42nd anniversary of the massacre of the Bologna station is celebrated. On August 2, 1980, at 10:25, the explosion of a deadly device placed in the second-class waiting room of the station of Bologna caused the death of 85 people and another 200 were injured. The massacre caused the torment of family and friends and immense suffering in our country. It constitutes and still represents, today, a tragedy and pain never removed in the civil consciences of all Italians and has left in all of us an indelible and unforgettable sign. The images of the devastated railway station in Bologna, the torn bodies of the victims, the cries and the lamentations of the wounded will remain the symbol of the heinousness and inhuman violence of terrorism and the attack on our democracy. The state's response to murderous terrorism and exversion was firm and determined. The terrorist matrix established by the judicial conclusions aimed, with a view to a strategy of violence and massacres, to destabilise democratic institutions. There are still some unanswered questions left. We must move forward and reach the full truth. It is an act of justice and respect due both to the victims, and to the association of the family members of the victims, who have always been engaged in all these years to fight derailments and connivances and denounce complicity and silence. Terrorism, whatever its matrix, is fought and won with unity and the contribution of all, as well as with respect and fidelity to the values of democracy and the republican spirit that our country has always pre-positioned and strengthened as a bulwark to defeat the sowers of death and violence. Mr President, violent actions and dark and subversive plots will never defeat the democratic spirit of our country and the cohesion of our Republic. A heartfelt and painful memory goes to the victims and a renewed solidarity and closeness to their families. Proudly defending the spirit of freedom and democracy of our country against those who spread violence, terror and dark plots is one of the cornerstones of our community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u122	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, in these hours all of Italy has been shocked by what happened in Civitanova Marche, by the images of a man beaten to death, a man killed with ferocity in front of all our eyes, because we have all seen and everything has been taken from the videos - merciless too - of mobile phones; a man without defense, repeatedly hit, pushed to the ground, with his head smashed and then suffocated on the asphalt. Alika was killed in the middle of the city and in the middle of the day in the boulevard of showcases and walks; he was killed by violence without respite and sense; he was killed for begging. Alika, who was claudicant, leaned on a crutch and that crutch was used to hit him. Many have witnessed the attack. There are those who warned the Forces of Order and Rescue, but it was too late. Alika died because he was alone and marginalized. Those who killed him so fiercely were also lonely and marginalized. Alika died because fear and dismay over what was happening paralyzed those who were present and, with them, an entire city, an entire society fragile and turned back on its own selfishness, unable to intervene in time. That's why Alika's death calls us all into question. It is not a private fact of the news, it is not only about the torment of his bride or the unbelief of her child, nor only the pain and anger of the Nigerian community. Alika's murder is about all of us, the world and the society we want to live in. The unacceptable thing would be to remove what happened, not to talk about it and to pretend nothing. Instead, we need a civil reaction that shakes everyone's consciences. We have a duty to ask ourselves why it happened and to demonstrate all together in the place where Alika was killed and to ensure that that piece of road, that piece of city bears its name, so that in September the children of the schools can also lay a flower and say: never again to violence, indifference, fear and discrimination. Alika died a foreigner, but he wasn't a foreigner. He was and is a new Italian, like his wife and son Emmanuel, who was born in Italy and studies in Italy. Mr President, there is one way we can honour the existence of Alika, the future of her son and of our children, and it is to build an open, supportive and inclusive society for all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u125	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to interrupt a nasty and unpleasant silence. On 7 and 8 May the Alpine assembly took place in Rimini. Over the next few days a great deal of fuss was raised, particularly in the left-wing newspapers, which were also urged by politics, with complaints for harassment and it seemed that they had combined who knows what. Then a few weeks later, the prosecutor asks for the dismissal and the president of the National Alpine Association threatens legal actions. I wanted to wait, but today we are now a few weeks away from what happened and we have now realized that the one raised then by the left was not a mess, but it was only left-handed mud against the Alpine Corps [[Applause]] , against thousands of men who have made a huge contribution to the history of our country, men who have voluntarily helped entire populations in difficult times - earthquakes, floods - always present, still present today in almost all the festivals of our countries and who will continue to do so with heart and altruism. Well, after a few weeks that no one from the left had the courage and the honor to apologize to the Alps for what they said and what they had written in those days, today we denounce this shame gone unnoticed. Not only do we want to be at the side of the Alps, but we want to thank them for what they have done and for what they will do and at this particular moment we would like to, precisely because there are the elections, in this new Babylon that is being built on the left, that they too understood that the Alps are a useful subject in our country, that must be appreciated and encouraged for what they do and that they must also be helped for what they have done and for the difficulties they encounter. We say, dear friends, that in this country we need some more alpine and some less left-wing parasites. Long live the alpine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u128	BERARDI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking at the end of the sitting to bring to the attention of all of you, and above all of the Government, what is happening in my territory, the Maremma, scourged by weeks of fires: Cinigiano, Arcilli, Tirli, Scansano and precisely in these moments Manciano and the hamlet of Saturnia, where the vice mayor informed me that they are taking people to safety and evacuating farms unfortunately threatened by the flames. I mentioned only some of the fractions that are under siege of flames. Thousands of hectares of woodland, vineyards, olive groves, rural sheds and hundreds of farms have been destroyed. The pandemic, the war, the increase in raw materials, fuels, energy, even the drought of the last few months, too many months were not enough: now there are also fires. The damage to the companies and the environment around us is incalculable. Our territory asks for help, our companies cry for help and for all this I ask the Government to take note of what is happening and to intervene, as far as possible, with extraordinary appropriations not only to combat these events, but above all to prevent them. In conclusion, I warmly thank all those who are at work at this moment, the fire department, irreplaceable, the forest fire-fighting unit, the police forces, the military forces, the Civil Protection of the Tuscany Region led by the Councillor Monia Monni, the many volunteers committed 24 hours a day, almost at the end of the day, and finally our mayors, our local administrators, always on the front line, to whom my closeness and solidarity goes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u131	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, on 26 July last year the report of the National Environmental Protection System (SNPA) on soil consumption, territorial dynamics and ecosystem services was presented. With an average of 19 hectares per day (the highest value of the last ten years) and a speed of 2.2 square meters per second, soil consumption is growing again and in 2021 it reaches 70 square kilometers of new artificial roofs in a single year. The main cause is the urban expansion and its collateral transformations that, by erase those soils that are prone to regeneration, precious to ensure adaptation to the current climate change, make the soil waterproof. This, as well as increasing floods and heat waves, causes the loss of green areas that absorb carbon dioxide, biodiversity and ecosystem services, with an estimated economic damage of almost €8 billion per year. Our future depends on soil, limited resource and in fact non-renewable. The soil and the multitude of organisms that live in it provide us with food, biomass, fibers, raw materials, regulate the cycles of water, carbon and nutrients, make life possible on earth. Soil is also a central element of the landscape and cultural heritage. For these reasons, natural soil must be protected and preserved for future generations. Viewing the annual reports on soil consumption is unfortunately like looking at the plates of a cancer, whose metastases propagate without opposing any therapy. And yet it is possible to run to the shelter. One could begin by intervening on over 310 square kilometers of unused and degraded buildings existing in Italy, an area equal to the extension of Milan and Naples. In the Senate we knew well that a law was needed to combat land use, but for the third parliamentary term in a row Parliament failed, not because of the 5 Star Movement. A law to stop soil consumption is absolutely essential and it would be desirable if it were to be the first of the next parliamentary term. We owe it to future generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u132	I say that at 9 a.m. tomorrow there will be a meeting of the Presidents of the Commissions on the Senate's internal budget, so the session of the Assembly will begin at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u133	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-458.ana.u134	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, August 3, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.33 p.m.
