ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 7 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u4	I communicate that on 13 April 2022 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law of 1 March 2022, No 17, introducing urgent measures for the containment of electricity and natural gas costs, for the development of renewable energies and for the relaunch of industrial policies" (2588).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u5	The next item is the joint debate on Document LVII, No 5, and the annexed Report prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. The rapporteurs, Senators Ferro and Faggi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Ferro.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, colleagues and colleagues, the Economic and Financial Document is the programme text containing the economic and financial strategies to be implemented over the next three years. It is a bit the laying of the foundation stone of all the actions and measures that the Government will have to take from here on. The keywords of the DEF are objectives, strategies and directions and it seems to me that with this document, in part exceeded by the forecasts of the last days of the International Monetary Fund, we can feel perfectly aligned. It is a conservative DEF, because the variable war, inflation and energy costs have somewhat shaped the whole text of the document, which is the main tool of the cycle of economic programming of public finance in our country. The law of accounting and public finance provides for its presentation to the Chambers for subsequent parliamentary deliberations and the law that established it regulates its contents. In the first section there is the Stability Programme scheme, which contains the information required by the EU regulations and the Code of Conduct on the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact. DEF 2022 also includes the National Reform Programme; after parliamentary scrutiny, the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme will be sent to the Council of the European Union and the European Commission for further evaluation. As regards the Italian macroeconomic environment, the DEF sets out the framework for 2021 and the trend and policy forecasts for the years up to 2025. Recalling the well-known official estimates of Istat, the document shows that GDP recovered well in 2021, as a growth of 6.6% in real terms, after the contraction of -9 percent recorded in 2020 due to the pandemic. The forecasts of the trend macroeconomic framework incorporate the effects on the economy of the economic policy actions, reforms and budgetary policy implemented prior to the presentation of the DEF itself. The policy framework, on the other hand, includes the impact on the economy of economic policies that will be concretely defined by the Update Note to the DEF of next September 2022 and subsequently adopted by the next budget law. The trend macroeconomic framework was validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office on 24 March 2022, while the macroeconomic policy framework was validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office on the occasion of the hearing before the Senate and Chamber Budget Commissions on 14 April. I am obliged to send a wish for good work to the Parliamentary Budget Office, which began to work with us on this very occasion. The forecast trend growth of real GDP for 2022, as a result of a higher starting level of quarterly GDP at the end of 2021 compared to the one estimated in September 2021 and considering the economic impact of the conflict and sanctions imposed against Russia, is revised to 2.9 percent, down 1.8 percentage points compared to 4.7 percent projected in the NADEF's programme scenario last September. The GDP forecast for 2023 also drops to 2.3% compared to 2.8% of NADEF's forecast. The forecast for 2025 is set at 1.5%, following the approach that the three-year growth rate converges towards the potential growth rate of the economy. The latter, assuming the implementation of the Investment and Reform Programme foreseen by the PNRR, is estimated at 1.4%. In the planning scenario, however, thanks to the next interventions foreseen by the Government, the projected real GDP growth is equal to 3.1 percent in 2022, 2.4 percent in 2023, 1.8% in 2024 and 1.5% in 2025. Coming to the sections of the DEF dedicated to public finance developments, the figures for 2021 attest to a net debt of general government equal, in absolute value, to 128.3 billion euros, corresponding to 7.2 percent of GDP; This figure is below the level of 9.4 percent expected by NADEF. The deviation from previous estimates is almost entirely attributable to the revision of the primary balance (improved by about 40 billion), which is countered by a new estimate of interest expenditure (worsening by about 2 billion). In turn, the revision of the primary balance is due to an improvement both on the revenue side (for about 26 billion), and on the expenditure side net of interest (for about 14 billion) compared to the previous forecasts. Compared to the previous year, the figure shows an improvement, as the net debt of 2020 was around 159 billion, corresponding to 9.6 percent of GDP. The deficit reduction of around EUR 30.7 billion is due to the improvement of the primary balance, although there is an increase in interest expenditure, increased to 5.5 billion. With regard to the forecast framework under current (tendencial) legislation, the Government specifies that the update of the forecasts of the public administration account serves the realignment of the assumptions underlying the use of the funds of the Next Generation EU to finance the planned interventions in our PNRR. The profit and loss account presented by the DEF shows a net debt of 5.1 percent of GDP for 2022 (around 95 billion). For the following years a constant decrease in net debt is estimated, both in absolute value and in relation to GDP, in the following terms: -73 billion in 2023, -65 billion in 2024, -57 billion in 2025. The marked evolution of net debt is mainly determined by the improvement of the primary balance, which, in relation to GDP, improves over all the years of the four years, from -1.6% in 2022 to +0.2% in 2025. This is accompanied by a reduction in interest expenditure, which, again in relation to GDP, rose from 3.1 percent in 2023 to 3% in the years 2024 and 2025. Colleagues, with regard to the policy framework for public finance, it should be noted in particular that it includes the effects of the measures taken to tackle the rise in energy prices, accentuated by recent international geopolitical developments. Also included were measures financed and being defined to support the car sector, in particular sales of cars with low environmental impact, as well as the semiconductor sector. In the light of the forecast net debt trend of -5.1 percent of GDP, the Government has confirmed the programmatic deficit to -5.6 percent, thus making available 0.5 percentage points of GDP, equal to 9.5 billion euros, which will be used for subsequent interventions to contain fuel prices and the cost of energy, to cover the increase in the prices of public works, to increase the funds for credit guarantees, for the additional measures that become necessary to assist Ukrainian refugees and to alleviate the economic impact of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine on Italian companies. As regards the evolution of the debt-to-GDP ratio, another important fact, the preliminary estimate for 2021 indicates a level of 150.8%, below the level of 153.5% provided for in the DEF Update Note (NADEF) and the 2022 budgetary policy document. The best result compared to the estimates is explained by the DEF with a better than expected cash balances trend. The public sector's needs at the end of 2021 stood at 6.1 per cent of GDP, rather than 9.9 per cent. This trend in cash balances has more than offset the negative effect of slightly lower than expected GDP growth. The debt ratio is 4.4 percentage points lower than the level of 155.3% achieved in 2020 and this is a good result. As regards the determinants of this change in the debt-to-GDP ratio, the DEF highlights first of all that the main factor of the improvement is to be found in economic growth, because the country has been able to react, even in a difficult context. With regard to the forecasts, the DEF estimates the debt-to-GDP ratio also decreasing in the current year and in the following three years. Although in a context of great uncertainty linked to the war in Ukraine and inflationary pressures, the growth and interest rate component should contribute to the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio, as a result of sustained economic growth and high inflation, which would compensate for the rise in interest rates. Madam President, I leave the floor to Senator Faggi for the next part of the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u7	I call the rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am continuing along the lines of what my colleague and co-rapporteur, Senator Ferro, has said. As already mentioned, as regards the forecasts, the DEF estimates the debt-to-GDP ratio to fall in the current year and in the following three years. Although in a context of great uncertainty linked to the war in Ukraine and inflationary pressures, the growth and interest rate component should contribute to the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio, as a result of sustained economic growth and high inflation, which would compensate for the rise in interest rates. Economic growth should benefit in particular from the impetus from the 2022 budgetary manoeuvre and the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In particular, the DEF expects a debt-to-GDP ratio of 147 per cent in 2022, down from 2021, both due to the expected decrease in public sector needs and nominal GDP growth. As regards the subsequent years of the forecast horizon, a ratio of 145.2 per cent is expected in 2023, mainly due to lower nominal GDP growth, compared to stable public sector needs. In 2024 the ratio is expected to fall to 143.4%, as a result of the reduction in net policy debt to 3.3% of GDP. Finally, the DEF provides for a debt-to-GDP ratio of 141.4% in 2025. This path of progressive reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio should benefit from the reduction of the Treasury's liquid stocks, which in 2025 will be brought back to a level slightly higher than in 2019. To complete the budget manoeuvre 2023-2025, in the DEF, the Government declares related to the budgetary decision a series of draft laws that are adhered to by the document and that colleagues themselves will be able to read. Together with the DEF, the Government forwarded to Parliament the report setting out the update of the re-entry plan towards the medium-term budgetary objective for the necessary parliamentary authorisation. The report is adopted pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, the so-called reinforced law implementing the principle of balance-of-balance-sheet, which provides for temporary deviations of the balance-sheet balance structured by the medium-term budgetary objective to be allowed in the event of exceptional events, after consulting the European Commission and subject to authorisation approved by the Chambers by an absolute majority of the respective components. The presentation of the report is motivated by the fact that, on the basis of the new estimates available in 2021, the budgetary balance in structural terms is deteriorated by about one percentage point of GDP compared to 2020. For 2022, an improvement in the structural balance is expected to be lower than the change indicated by NADEF and in the budgetary policy document; this results in a different profile, particularly in 2022, than the one planned in NADEF and in the budgetary policy document, in terms of speed and convergence. It is also recalled that for the current year the European Commission has decided to apply the so-called general escape clause, which ensures a temporary suspension of budgetary rules in order to provide Member States with greater room for manoeuvre in order to bear the health costs necessary to deal with the pandemic and to counter the recessionary effects of the pandemic crisis. Finally, in the overall analysis of the DEF, particular attention must be paid to the issue of increasing the cost of raw materials and, more generally, building materials, with inevitable negative effects on investment and interventions in the construction sector, which will inevitably reverberate also on the timing and modalities of implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as well as on the maintenance of the macroeconomic framework. The above issues have also been highlighted in the testimonies - made both by the social partners and institutional actors - during the round of hearings held jointly by the Senate and Chamber of Deputies budget committees. In this respect, in line with the considerations of the Court of Auditors, it is recalled that tensions on the raw materials markets, which have been going on for more than a year, have become even more acute with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Among the various aspects, the most important from the point of view of the impacts on the economy is the increase in gas prices, on which electricity prices depend. High energy prices are reflected, as well as directly on consumer prices, also indirectly on production costs borne by companies; the most energy-intensive sectors are experiencing exceptional cost increases. At this stage it is not immediate to determine what the magnitude of the increases of the various products under regime will be due to the high uncertainty linked to the outcome of the war. This is also an important unknown with respect to the implementation of PNRR policies, since the cost of the investment programmes indicated in the plan could also be different from the initial estimates, possibly requiring a remodulation of the programme, or the allocation of additional resources from the public budget; a road, the latter, which was undertaken by the Government, which in the DEF under consideration has anticipated a next measure to adapt the financing to public investment to the extent corresponding to the higher costs of the works. With specific consideration to the legislation adopted so far to mitigate the impact of the expensive raw materials on the productive sector, while appreciating the interventions put in place so far, however, cannot be considered the continuing criticality concerning, for example, the inadequacy of the compensation system, the absence of a mechanism of contractual rebalancing with a reservation of balance, the failure to recognize the problem of the finding of raw materials, or the increase of prices as a cause of force majeure for the termination of the contract. Possible solutions to the problems found based on the following proposals should therefore be envisaged: for the work being carried out and for those of next confidence, an extraordinary update of the prices in use, in order to restore the contractual balance; to provide, for framework agreements already awarded on the basis of unup-to-date prices, an adjustment of the projects before the conclusion of the implementation contracts; to consider the possibility of providing for the termination of the contract for excessive onerosity which has occurred; to assess the opportunity, for certain raw materials related to specific sectors in serious crisis, to provide for an extraordinary update of the prices of the materials to be put on the basis of competition, in order to take account of the international economic crisis. For further information, colleagues can refer directly to the public finance documentation prepared by the documentation services of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u9	I remember that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the plan of return to the medium-term objective is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of direction: the first, relating to the Report referred to in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Economy and Finance Document, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, a word of appreciation first of all for the quality of the DEF presented by the Government, for the work of the Parliamentary Budget Office and for the reports now presented orally by Senator Ferro and Senator Faggi. On the substance, however, I see in the relative serenity of the Government, in the political and parliamentary debate and in public opinion in general a dangerous addiction to a state of serious imbalance of Italian public finance. In order to highlight this concern, I am not going to vote in favour of the majority motion for a resolution, but I am going to abstain, precisely in an attempt to point out to a parliamentary and public opinion rather distracted by the danger of the slope on which we stand. First of all, I want to say that the worsening of the overall scenario before our eyes is not only due to clearly unpredictable factors such as the war in Ukraine, but it is partly due to a misreading that until a few months ago the Government and some experts, in particular in Italy, gave of the macroeconomic situation, of the abundance of liquidity, of the abnormally low level of interest rates and of having failed any bond of public finance or limitation to the creation of the currency. Last November I pointed out, together with others, that a Government with an unprecedented Premier for international authority and a Europe that for the first time makes substantial donations and loans available to Member States - Italy more than any other - suspends all ties, creates unlimited currency and so on, with very low or even negative interest rates, could certainly appear a new paradigm. However, or it was thought in the autumn months that this was a new paradigm destined to last for a long time, and then there would be no urgency to use this lucky constellation - so several economists, government members, politicians and central bankers thought, which contributed to spreading the belief that the public debt is a problem of the last century and that in the relations between the state and citizens it is not the time to take, but to give and so on - or it was convinced that the regime, partly artificial, kept alive in recent years by the monetary expansion to the excess practiced by the ECB and the other major central banks, would be destined to break between not much on the rocks of inflation, the rising interest rates and the deep inequalities it has fueled. It would then have become more clear how urgent it was to change things in depth. Here, let us not hide today behind the alibi of the war in Ukraine, which is a tragic and devastating event also from the economic point of view, as well as from the human one, but which intervened after the world had already given sign that the paradigm illusory followed by many as permanent, especially in Italy, was instead changing. I must say that at this juncture I am genuinely concerned, as we see in the majority's motion for a resolution, about every other aspect that I believe is acceptable, that a further step is being taken - and I believe this is the first time that this is happening in a motion for a resolution to the Economic and Financial Document by Parliament - towards the trivialisation of an instrument that our Constitution since 2012 provides for as an exceptional, that is, the budgetary deviation. Many times in this House and in the House in recent years have been approved budget deviations, but in the face of new evidence and requests for majorities. Here, for the first time, in paragraph 4, we even incorporate in the draft resolution a forecast - almost with a shift in scale - of an event that should be as exceptional as the budgetary deviation, when it is said: monitor the government well, because there will probably be situations that will require budgetary deviation. I would like to point out that, even in the face of the pandemic, even in the face of the war in Ukraine, it is our mistake to act on the conditional reflection that it is obvious that there must be a greater deficit in these cases. By now we have all understood who will pay the biggest deficit and debt: our children and our grandchildren, if a crisis of financial instability does not intervene first. Well, in the face of a world which, even because of the bad management of globalisation that we have all done in the past, is clearly becoming more complicated and more likely to produce exceptional negative events, such as the pandemic or a war, in this situation, it should be mentally predisposed to a leap of seriousness of the entire policy, beginning with the economic one. Instead, we have a political system, perhaps more in Italy than elsewhere, which considers with due drama and emerging spirit the war, as it did with the pandemic, but for the rest, after the second traumatic event, which threatens to be followed by others, because the world has changed, continues with a disarming banality in the non-seriousness of current politics, including economic policy, as regards public finance. Evidently, if the world changes, we must also pose the problem of who will have to pay for this world change. I would point out that, in this way, we are all dumping on the generations that will come, even if we often wash our mouths with good intentions towards children and grandchildren. Let me conclude with the following consideration. We all want less tax pressure, but it is serious that, in a country that is part of a world that is going in this direction, practically all political leaders say that taxes must be reduced and must not increase, which we all want? Do we really think people believe that? Do we really think politicians who say that believe us? Let's not make fun of each other in a collective game. Faced with a world that goes in this direction, we are preparing to consider a real modernisation of the tax system, which is also charged with remedying the growing and unacceptable injustices, and we try to face with a spirit of seriousness, as if we belonged to a world of adults, this new phase of politics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u11	Mr President, Government, colleagues, on Easter, after eating the lamb, according to tradition and without feeling like a cannibal, I wrote these notes, which I hope are relevant. The DEF depends on several factors: it is a photograph; there are the tendency and programmatic that try to correct and to bring back to the straight path the data of the state budget, but it depends first of all, as already said by the rapporteurs, the war, of course. On this subject there is a time when everyone must say what he thinks, beyond and beyond the deployments, but also by interpreting the feelings of so many of our citizens. There are too many warlike statements by Western statesmen around. The West seems crazy. I advocate mediation and diplomacy to achieve peace at all costs. If we say no gas from Russia, the factories will stop; if we say no gas from Egypt, for the case of Regens, the same will happen. The nuclear threat is real and real. What were those two Brits doing in Ukraine, taken prisoner? There is some mystery that needs to be clarified; history will clarify it, but it should be clarified quickly. Then there is another problem, which I think can affect, and by a lot, the DEF. I am referring to the idea of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, which prepares the legislative texts, which has formulated a scheme for increasing European taxes. In fact, the European Commission will have to find somewhere the famous 800 billion PNRR, of which 338 are defined as grants; it cannot print them. Then they are not lost, there is the idea of a tax of solidarity and wealth that could be found through four methods, which synthesizes. The first is that of an asset that affects the wealth of all Europeans. I am referring to written documents. The second is to tax the owners of listed companies on the basis of the value of the shares. The third is to introduce a higher income tax and the last is a tax on financial wealth. This is what is unfortunately ours and there is no alternative. As far as energy policy is concerned, the government is doing everything it can to try to correct it. Nuclear? No, we're Italians, trouble, no way. Today would be fine, but it takes ten years to implant it. There is a few openings on wind and photovoltaics. In Decree-Law No. 17, which we will examine tomorrow, there is a rule in Article 9 that facilitates photovoltaics in all its versions. The ecological and digital transition has costs, on which we will have to discuss, because I do not know what will happen when all the machines are electric, they will be in queue to go on holidays from North to South and, after three hours, they will have the battery exhausted. Inflation is a hidden, even salty asset, which unfortunately all pay and, in the near future, it will have to be chased through the increase in salaries and pensions. The increase in energy in general leads to an increase in the tax burden, because VAT increases, which, according to the order of accountants, is 49 percent. All the other parameters have been explained by the rapporteurs. Some interesting aspects have emerged. The deficit-GDP ratio to 5.6, almost 100 billion, is abnormal, but there is a trend towards reduction and it will have to be so. Until two years ago we had a primary surplus and our deficit was due to interest, which is 3.5 per cent of GDP. Too high an amount, because the debt is high and is the result of previous choices. The primary surplus, however, today is a deficit of about 1.6%. There's a lot of investment. There is also the PNRR, which is what it is, but still there is: it is 50 billion, which, if they can be activated, will bring significant benefits in all respects. The 6th Commission, of which I am a member, has given its opinion under conditions. The opinion was drafted by my colleague, Mr Toffanin, and it seemed to me very interesting and I try to share it and explain it according to earthly interpretations. If a budgetary deviation is to be made in order to find additional resources, it will be necessary to see and decide first what to do and what action is needed. For example, abolishing excise duties on all energy, fuels, light and gas for a year, in my opinion, would cut the bull's head, cool the market and you would see that underneath there is only speculation, but it would have a benevolent psychological effect and would certainly lead to a price-calming. The 6th Commission's opinion this morning also says that structural measures must be taken to ensure that the enterprise system is fully developed. That is what someone has always said in this House, namely that businesses can work peacefully, with certainties, without feeling like criminals or persecuted. In addition, the extension of the moratorium on mortgages should be proposed in order to provide liquidity to the system and to provide liquidity to workers to reduce the tax wedge. Finally, two Commission notes. We need to intervene in a structural way, with an extraordinary plan for the definition and disposal of tax credits that I believe are two important aspects. This is the famous tax warehouse - the Undersecretary of War was present - about which we have spoken for months and which does not exist, it is the result of legacy of the past, it exists in a percentage, compared to the 1,000 billions that have enthused certain political forces, and it acts to the extent of 5, 6, 7 percent. I believe, however, that talking about enlarged destruction - not to use the word pardon - is not a blasphemy. It is also necessary to foresee from now on - we have said of all the colors regarding the 110% bonus - what some Subsecretaries have done to the Chamber, but that must be translated into the norm as soon as possible, the extension of June 30 for the renovation of buildings for single-family buildings, also this to give tranquility to the system. On the 110% bonus everyone continues to show their own interpretations, even of bodies that are not legislative, such as the Revenue Agency, which either filled voids or went off track; enough alarms, because in the vacuum clarification on clarifications, interpretations on interpretations create alarm on the market and cause the increase in prices. As for the 110% bonus, I may have later rethinked the opportunity of the measure over 100 percent, which is psychologically wrong, because it caused a crazy increase in the demand for goods, which caused the price increase. On the question of the PNRR, for what it is and for the fruits it can bear, it must be revised in the planned expenses, because a Municipality, a Province, an institution that has received a contribution for a work that cost 10 million but that today it costs 13 because of the increase of the raw materials, cannot fail to complete it, cannot co-finance it, because this institution certainly does not have these amounts. It is therefore necessary to revise this point, while on certain works you can shorten the times, but reviewing the amounts and previewing short times so that the contracts can go into port and be executed. The issue of price review has been dealt with in the rules - by Decree-Law No 17 on the containment of energy and gas costs, which we will examine tomorrow and by Decree-Law No 21 which we will examine next week - in an intelligent way. It seems to me that the government is on the right track to understand these remarks. I have tried to make further suggestions which I believe are inspired by a constructive spirit and inspired by the realism that is what characterizes the life of Italians, that is, those to whom the measures are addressed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u12	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u13	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the excellent work that has been done in the Commission, where there has also been a talk between the majority and the opposition about the issues to be addressed during the year. The DEF is the document of economy and finance and is the main instrument of the country's economic and public finance programming cycle and it is clear that this document must take into account not only the momentary situation, but the future perspective. This document may have a somewhat optimistic view and we hope that this will continue over time, but surely with respect to the analysis of NADEF the data are all deteriorating. In NADEF in September, GDP growth was expected to be 6.1 percent; inflation in the last quarter was 2.9 percent. Unfortunately, analyzing the data instead of the first and second quarter of 2022 seems to reverse, so the lower growth will reach 3.1, while inflation is set to increase. What worries us is certainly not the data written on paper, but what we see and live in real life. Just confront yourself in the squares, talk to people and listen to all the difficulties they are facing. There's so much uncertainty and concern. Last year the League brought to light one of the first problems, namely the expensive raw materials. Last year we could not find wood, iron, steel, plastic and semiconductors, with an impact on all technological factors or on automotive. There have been problems over the entire economic chain and production, with the increase in costs caused by the shortage of raw materials. Already then we had been watched by the whole productive world on this issue, which today is even worse because of the outbreak of war and the prices of energy sources. We are talking about the costs of energy and fuel: all this affects not only production, but also logistics. Within the DEF, among the first issues to be considered are precisely the increase in costs and the help that must be given to companies and families in difficulty. An additional 0.5% of GDP is expected to contribute EUR 10.5 billion to an internal budgetary deviation for further aid to businesses and households. We know that the so-called Ukraine decree expires on 30 April and that further action will have to be taken to make an effective contribution to countering the rise in energy and fuel prices. It is clear that this intervention cannot be decisive and that a budgetary deviation will most likely be necessary. We must take into account the fact that companies have liquidity problems and that because of expensive raw materials and inflation there will be less demand for services and, consequently, less market proposal. This will also mean having company problems that can close or put employees into cash-out. As a result, we will have more unemployment. According to data contained within NADEF, unemployment in Italy in 2022 fell from 9.5% to 9.3 percent, to 9.4% in 2023. This is, therefore, a very high unemployment rate. This leads to reasoning regarding all families in poverty and whose members would like to find a job. Those who frequent entrepreneurs and squares hear a shortage of labour that is sought, but not found. An answer should be given to this problem. We know that the measure of income and citizenship pension has been refinanced. There are 1.1 million beneficiary families, with more than 2.44 million people involved. There is therefore a large proportion of people who receive citizenship income. I think it is important to help all families who need it, but that also means meeting demand with supply. It is not possible to have such a high unemployment rate and demand for labour that is not met. I have to say something's wrong. [[Applause]] We work on these issues to help families and people, but we must also consider the economic situation in the country. As a League we reiterate that we do not want to increase taxes, indeed. We need to work for a simplification of bureaucracy, because we know very well that bureaucracy means costs. As for the land register, we must be careful not to intervene further on the costs of the first house, on the property of citizens, because the house is the most valuable asset of Italians: no taxes, no harassment to our citizens. We need to stop thinking about buffer measures. We have helped our companies by giving bonuses and solutions to deal with the emergency, but we are moving from one emergency to another. We've moved from the health emergency to the energy emergency, which will lead us to an economic emergency. We must therefore review all the measures we have implemented in recent times and envisage making the structural responses, correcting the policies implemented over the past 30 years, in order to give citizens the opportunity to work quickly, especially in order to implement all those works that are foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In this respect, we know that the increase in costs puts yards at risk. We must therefore review the whole procedure and design, so that these works do not remain unfinished. We have a great obligation to future generations: we must ferry this country out of the emergency and bring it into a security situation. We owe it to our children, to the generations to come. It is a task to which no one can escape, majority and opposition together, because this boat is called Italy and we must at all costs save it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u15	Mr President, with EUR 2,700 billion of public debt and a debt-to-GDP ratio of 150 percent, we are now a country on the verge of bankruptcy. That is why in the Economic and Financial Document you cannot envisage measures to support families and businesses. In fact, despite the anomalous increase in inflation and in particular in the cost of energy, allocated only 5 billion for households and businesses, when, for example, Germany has provided a package of 100 billion aid only for companies. It is for this reason, moreover, that you reduce even more the expenditure on school and health care, despite Italy spending already less than the European average in these areas. The reason - which you no longer have to hide from the Italians - is that there is no longer a euro in the cash register and the financial markets no longer allow us to do any more debt. It's not a budget deviation. The proof is that, after filling your mouth with the budgetary deviation, you vote a DEF that excludes any further debt, because you know that you have already indebted Italy beyond any limit. The only recipe you can now propose is the settlement to the last good of citizens, the house, on which you plan to raise taxes through tax delegation and the reform of the land register. But the incredible thing is that, after eating Italy and selling it out to foreign interests, today you are still ready to make the situation worse, increasing the expenditure on armaments and accepting the Russian oil and gas embargo. In the DEF you mask the increase of expenditure in arms by writing that the projections of expenditure do not include the international commitments already made and that they will be dealt with by the revision of current expenditure: it is another way of saying that we will pay arms with cuts in public services and social policies. As far as Russian oil and gas imports are concerned, the DEF explicitly admits an impact on GDP by more than 2 percentage points and a decrease in employment by more than one point in both 2022 and 2023. This means poverty and unemployment for millions of Italians; other than giving up the air conditioner, as your embarrassing President-in-Office of the Council says. In conclusion, this document of economy and finance confirms that, after having devoured and indebted Italy, you are finally leading us to disaster. I hope the Italians realize this and know how to wipe you out before it is too late. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u16	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u17	Mr President, the introduction to the DEF shows the figures for 2021 on the Italian economy: real GDP growth of 6,6% and a decline in the deficit and debt of the public administration in relation to GDP more pronounced than expected, respectively at 7,2% and 150,8% of GDP. The growth of gross domestic product in our country in the fourth quarter of 2021, on that of 2020, was the highest among the major European economies. An important result for our country also due to a vaccination campaign conducted masterfully by General Son, who we will never tire of thanking, and the authoritative leader of President Draghi. This is also achieved through the work of businesses, citizenship and our country system. We maintain this outcome as a treasure that indicates the ability of our Italy to react to a bad blow like that of the Covid. But now the war in Ukraine is in danger of frustrating our efforts: sin. Too bad about the images of the destruction of war, which we were used to in the heart of Europe, for the dead, the refugees, the innocent victims of children. We hope to be able to reverse the war pattern as soon as possible and return to peace thanks to the dialogue between diplomacy: it is a strong position that Europe should take. Too bad war right now. As the Pope says in a simple but powerful way, we should have come out of the pandemic crisis right now, hand in hand. Too bad for the economy, with an energy crisis and an increase in the cost of gas that the measures that the government is taking are trying to prevent, especially for families in need. Health becomes fundamental, however, for our future of health, economic and growth, but also for the health security of Ukrainian refugees and the security of our communities. We must accompany the DEF with the PNRR, as the DEF presented by the Government very appropriately recalls. We have many things to fix: firstly, proximity medicine, as the real proximity of citizens to the network of family doctors and pharmacies, which must never leave citizens alone in the face of health problems; also, home care, the shortage of socio-health personnel, the shortage of doctors, nurses and social workers, training. The care continuum between hospital and territory must be ensured, digitalisation must be continued and territorial differences must be eliminated. Enjoyable is the call in the DEF to the National Fair Health Programme. For all these things, we must never lower health spending compared to GDP, because health is wealth. Expenditure must be rationalised, of course. From this outbreak from Covid we learned that without health care there is no economy and there is no employment. Some expenditure should be considered as investment, especially in the area of prevention. How many savings would we have if we were less ill by preventing and involving citizens and citizens in health with a prize for virtuous behavior? Action must therefore be taken to change the approach to health. Health must be seen not only as a cost, but also as an investment, especially in order to strengthen the enormous technological and epochal upheavals of innovative medicines, for example, and to improve patient care, as well as the prevention and early diagnosis of diseases. Our health system must learn to assess the real economic impact of new treatments, for which it is necessary to determine all the human, economic and social costs of the disease, with particular attention to improving economic assessments in order to identify accurately the impacts on GDP. Many European Parliaments are discussing this: it is therefore necessary to intervene in the coming months and years on the rules of public finance, certainly in agreement with the European Union, in order to adopt health and economic policies appropriate to make our National Health Service ready to welcome new health technologies, making them economically and organisationally sustainable and allowing fair access to all eligible patients according to the therapeutic appropriateness of the drug. Health, therefore, as closeness, as economic progress, as fair access to drugs and as economic flywheel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u18	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u19	Madam President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in all the speeches we have heard so far it was possible to read a rather marked note of concern. Perhaps what struck me most was the intervention of President Monti, who put dots on the "i" very strict, but there is no doubt how much the scenario has changed since we approved the last Update Note to the DEF, in November last year. It seems like a lifetime ago: we were leaving the pandemic then, the funds of the PNRR were coming and we were happy because the projects that had been made were being carried out. We imagined therefore that we could receive as soon as possible what represented the completion not only of a financing, but precisely of a model of reform, built really with so much attention and so much sensitivity on the part of all political forces, through a debate sometimes lively, but certainly creative and productive. Suddenly a war has struck our lives, which is much closer than we hear, because we perceive it concretely and continuously in its effects. It's like when one doesn't see the wind, but he totally feels the breath on his own face, on his own skin or in the pages of a book he's browsing and this war wind we feel especially starting from the increase in energy costs that on the one hand weigh on families and above all - I said it more than once, but I need to repeat it - on those in which there are people with disabilities and difficulties, on the other they weigh on companies and on all of us. In addition to this increased direct disbursement by families and companies, there are the resources, including economic and material resources, with which we must defend and support Ukraine's policy, so that it can in turn be defended against the aggression that threatens it. It is an unimaginable scenario that requires a totally new vision, an ability to redesign choices and redefine priorities. It really requires, at the end of this legislature (maybe this is the last DEF that we approve in this legislature), the awareness of what Country we want to leave, within a few months, not only to future generations, but also to the present generations who expect from us something more than just a diagnosis. They expect therapy, they expect courageous decisions. I believe that at this moment it is necessary to be able to review, among the projects to be carried out and among the investments to be made, those who are more directly able to put our economy back on the move, which is again asphytic, those who are able to put the lives of families back on the move, especially those who live in the most poor economic conditions. More than once I have said that the cost of energy is life for many of them, because the machines that keep them alive go to electricity and these bills are not able to pay them. We really need to rethink, in terms of a social class that is impoverishing itself and an entrepreneurial class that struggles to face the new challenges, through this Document too, what we want to ask, but also what we want and we have the moral duty to give to our Italy. It will be in terms of debt, the good debt. Is there really a good debt? We are pleased to believe that there can be a good debt and that this good debt can be contracted to meet what are the real priorities of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u21	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the document of economy and finance already at a normal stage requires a vision of the social, economic and productive development of our country. This is even more true today, in the face of a war a few hundred kilometres from Europe, in the heart of Europe, designed to strike Europe. So I want to start with this reflection, because I think it is necessary to make it clear that, in the face of this aggression, there is a proper European response. Our production system, Italian families and companies have shown positive signs of reaction to the pandemic crisis. There are positive elements in the Economy and Finance Document: +6.6 percent of GDP in 2021. To this we add the confirmation that the main road to making our debt sustainable is growth, because also the deficit-GDP ratio, with higher growth, finds its sustainability. However, we are facing an unprecedented, new challenge, which calls on us, in my opinion, to soon define an industrial plan in our country, a reform of our welfare system and a European response on energy issues. There is no doubt that the transition we are going through cannot be an obstacle to growth and economic development. The ecological transition of the economy, including in the energy sector, cannot be a leap into the dark; it is a transition. I believe that we are leaving the pandemic with a common European strategy. Next Generation EU has in fact this approach: to support the recovery of investments, to get out of the dynamics of linear cuts and recession, to build, of course, with the new investments, a social, environmental and digital transition able to face the three ingredients that I have previously recalled. I am referring to a new industrial plan, because the economic and social dynamics are new, to a socio-assistant plan of new welfare, because new are the needs of Italian families and businesses, and above all to energy, which is in fact an essential component of economic development. I say this in a special way to the Government, which I thank for the work it has done in preparing the document of economy and finance. I believe that this is the crucial battle: to combat inflation, through a common European choice on energy dynamics. We can no longer think that individual states, in solitude, address issues that inevitably have in the European dimension their common basis. In short, we must support the Government in the most important initiative, which I believe is the most useful one to define a new vision of the industrial, economic and social development of our country, which consists in arresting and blocking inflation, through important work on the cost of energy in our country. This is essential, because the inflationary component risks widening the unequal balance and, if not addressed in Europe, risks opening up very dangerous social conflicts in the heart of Europe. Let us tell the truth, among us: Russia's invasion of the Ukraine has a value in determining a new global order, but Putin's insane imperialist strategy would be successful precisely in opening up new social conflicts within Europe and precisely in affirming the principle of energy dependence, as a fundamental element in bringing economy and society to its knees in Europe. Attention, because this is a fundamental point, from which we do not leave without an immediate response in the European dimension. That is why we need to support the government in this initiative and we need to call for an immediate cap and comparison of energy costs, because this is a key element in combating inflation. I would therefore like to say very clearly that, in order to have a vision of our future, which is consistent with the guidelines I referred to earlier, there is no doubt that we cannot afford inflation which is expected to be above 7% - and which, in reality, is now more than 10% - for medium-long times. It is not sustainable, because this widens inequalities and structural problems are widening that have not yet been resolved in our country, such as the issue of territorial disparities and those in the access to employment of young people and women. These are land on which we still have to move forward and with such high inflation there is a risk of becoming even more structural problems that we are now starting to find a fundamental solution. The Next generation EU programme, moreover, had these objectives, which risk, with high inflation and a cost of energy out of control, being undermined in their fundamental outcome. I have made these examples, Mr President, because I believe that it is essential, especially in the face of the Economic and Financial Document, to have great objectives and therefore I point out to the Government the first objective: immediate and urgent measures, in the European dimension, to contain inflation and reduce the cost of electricity and gas. There is no doubt that these are fundamental components, today, of the insustainability of many economic activities. We have also seen it in the Budget Committee: while we are talking, there are companies that have reduced their production potential by closing and stopping the plants. Those companies are the architrave of the economic development of our country, they are the ones that have grown the most, that have supported the impact of the pandemic and that have produced that growth that makes our debt sustainable. Without an energy intervention we risk losing the market of those companies - I think of ceramics, energy and many manufacturing companies in our country - when they stop productions. Producing on the net margins of 2021, at today's unsustainable energy costs, means losing 6 million euros every quarter, while in 2021, with the previous energy costs, companies produced important profits, generating new jobs and new growth. With the firm companies, therefore, we risk losing that market. There will always be a place in the world where energy will cost less than Europe and in which obviously it will be possible to produce ceramics, paper mills, energetic economic activities that we risk no longer having in Italy as a fundamental element also of export dynamics, since they are those that have driven growth in our country. I have made these examples because I continue to think that this is the crucial issue: urgent measures to combat inflation and to prevent possible new social conflicts in our country. Our economy has given positive signs of restart after the pandemic; the confidence of Italian families and companies, unfortunately, has lowered so much, I say it very clearly. Thus, in the face of a declining climate of trust in families and businesses and with an ongoing war, shaking the tax scare does not help to build a new profile of the industrial and economic development of our country: that is propaganda that further cracks the relations between the citizen and the State. If we want to start from this consideration, we must ask the government to pay particular attention to social dynamics and wage policies, because if we do not intervene quickly to stop inflation, we must at all costs avoid the start of possible social conflicts that can further slow down growth forecasts. The International Monetary Fund reminds us of reality and brings us back to some growth. Since the trawl from 2021 to 2022 is 2.3 percent, to avoid the third recession we obviously cannot support a reduction in our country's production capacity below that threshold. Therefore, urgent measures are needed to combat inflation, urgent action to bring energy back to sustainability, European policies that do not just suspend European standards, but that address the new European governance with the reform of the Stability Pact immediately. I'd say, if not now, when? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u22	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u23	Mr President, what emerges from this document would appear to be an excess of optimism or certainly a prudence in the choices made to remedy the situation that seems truly catastrophic rather than rosy, as it may seem with a government that reaffirms the objective of the pre-war budgetary programme document. In fact, the war and the increase in gas most likely tell us that these estimates will be wrong, as we have already seen from the data of ISTAT: the September forecasts were not confirmed in March and the increase in energy prices, the lower availability of gas and the reduction of demand lead us to a much lower trend than the forecast scenario of 2.3 and 1.9 percent for 2023. IRI predicts high and rising inflation; in the Eurozone there is talk of inflation at 7.5%. This will clearly lead families, with the same basket, to have to spend from 1.6 to 2.2% more than in 2021, which will clearly ensure that large-scale distribution will benefit from it with earnings below 2 billion, but with increased so-called horizontal competition for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the ones we should be most interested in. In the DEF, fiscal measures are not conducive to the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises either for social equity or for families. According to estimates of tax revenues, the State is expected to collect 38 billion more in 2022, but it does not appear that they will be used efficiently. As the Government has pointed out, the rise in prices is the result of speculation that has led some energy companies to have extraordinary profits up to 40 billion, which is an unacceptable figure. However, in order to avoid this distortion, due to a sick system not of the market, but based on oligopoly, there are no structural measures, nor do we seem to want to put in hand what at this point I believe is a necessary taxation on large capitals: I think, for example, one percent of 5% of the richest. I am referring to a structural measure, not a contribution of solidarity. In the same way, overtime contributions, VAT reductions (well-being), reductions in electricity tariffs and excise duty reductions for only 30 days are not sufficient. On the other hand, the statements that we are pleased with, such as that of moving faster from fossil fuels to renewable sources, benefiting from discomfort and necessity, are not followed by measures that really lead us in that direction. The same goes for the confirmation of the disposal of coal use by 2025, because for the time being it is said that we will use coal, and for the confirmation of the goal of reducing carbon dioxide by 2030 and zero emissions by 2050. It's okay, but the question is how to do it, because what we read doesn't lead us in that direction. We should understand that the opportunity offered to us should call into question our energy transition as we have designed it, because it is all unbalanced on gas, which precisely comes from Russia for 40% of those 70 billion cubic metres that we need every year. We should really review this rather than go looking for solutions in the past. However, the most serious thing that I can overcome in the lack of measures, the huge contradiction that emerges, is mainly two facts: the first is the cut in education, which from 4% of GDP exceptionally invested in pandemic time goes up to 3.5%, when the European average is 4.7% of GDP, with some peaks of 6 and 7 percent. We must take into account the fact that from 3.5% to 4.7% we are talking about 20 billion for education, that is, for the future of our country. That's what we're talking about. It also happens on health care there is a cut of a percentage point, clearly not immediately but distributed over time. On the other hand, there is an increase in military spending. This is a serious injury in our assessment, because an increase of 2% in the GDP of military spending, bringing it to 38 billion, against the cuts we still make in those areas that are the most important is extremely costly. There are also two measures related to this to this DEF, which should not be there and which we would not like to see: the competition bill and the autonomous bill. They are two attacks: our ability to clearly develop a widespread wealth, through a measure other than the draft competition law, and our ability to help the South. The draft competition law is a measure that will make essentially residual the form of self-handling, i.e. the self-organization of the service, including real public management. It is a tombstone on the local authorities who would like to choose the public. Local authorities operating for the self-production of the service will have to justify failure to use the market by means of an early and qualified statement, submitting it to the Competition and Market Authority. This will have consequences for future choices and management by public administrations on essential public services such as water. Having foreseen this measure as related to the DEF means that it cannot be submitted to referendem. This is a cry of pain. The same applies to the bill on differentiated autonomy, which illustrious observers have called the secession of the rich. [[Applause]] We must realise that we are going against the objectives of the PNRR, because Mission 5 tells us that we must work for territorial cohesion. That is why we have had the PNRR money to that extent; yet we continue stubbornly to go straight in the opposite direction. The pandemic, the war, the economic crisis, the debt that we are accumulating, the inflation and the possible recession have accentuated the territorial gaps between North and South, going mainly to hit the weakest and most fragile social groups that, even before the outbreak of the pandemic, were on their knees. But if the South goes down, the North can only follow the same fate. Open your eyes, dear fellow countrymen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u24	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u25	Mr President, the issue we are dealing with today is of considerable economic importance, but above all on the repercussions it can have on the entire Italian country system. We know that hundreds of Italian companies have survived the pandemic, despite the huge declines in turnover; today they risk to end up on their knees permanently because of the consequences of the war in Ukraine. One in three - statistical data and prospects for hand - if it is not supported and helped in the various sectors risks closing. The Government has already put in place concrete measures to support businesses, workers and families. I am referring first of all to energy price control measures against expensive bills, allocating more than France and more than Germany. For the benefit of companies operating agricultural and fishing activities, the important contribution of the tax credit for the purchase of fuels in the first quarter of 2022 has been recognised: we want to extend it, so that prices do not return to the reference average for 2021. We must take a further step forward, however, and we cannot stand by and watch. We need concrete measures, up to the level, with an extra budget deviation. We need to review the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, tear down all accounting records for five years and carry out important sectoral interventions, starting precisely from agriculture, the primary sector: let's never forget that, if you lose agriculture, lose food, lose the future of our country. We have a challenge ahead of us. Through the maneuvers of public finance we have come to the challenge of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which itself has a considerable investment programme, both public and private. In front of us, however, we have two orders of problems. The first is linked to the implementation times of the interventions in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will be long. Above all, there is still no shadow of simplification. We have bureaucratic regulations that engulf the speed of implementation of the Plan. On the other hand, there is the need, as we have repeatedly said, to re-determine the development objectives, in the light of the increase in energy and raw materials costs, which are unsustainable for the primary sector. It has also been said by the rapporteurs that, for the current year, we have available a margin of 0.5 percentage points of Gross Domestic Product, amounting to approximately  9.5 billion, which will be directed to actions to contain the price of fuels and the cost of energy, to cover the increase in the prices of public works, to increase the funds for credit guarantees and, more generally, to alleviate the economic impact of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. According to a study by Intesa Sanpaolo, the war will, on average, cost 2000 euros more to the family and a total increase of expenditure of 188 billion euros for the purchase of goods and services by Italian companies compared to the pre-conflict period. We know very well what the tax burden in our country is: we are close to almost 50%. With regard to the agricultural sector, in addition to the measures in favour of the whole energy and energy sector, we also called for the support of research and, together, to strengthen the training system for young farmers, in order to facilitate the introduction of new technologies and thus promote this process of ecological transition so important for our country. We have also called for measures to be taken to cut back, to calm down, to contain prices and to provide for the necessary controls. Here, too, checks are necessary. The guarantee authorities must do their job, both on fuels and on the entire energy phase of our country. An important issue concerns the mutual fund relating to natural disasters and meteoclimatic disasters, which is of vital importance to our country. I would remind this House that many of our farmers have already been frozen at the beginning of the year and hailed on crops, which were not insured because the insurance companies could not and wanted to ensure, causes the risk. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Let us remember the approval, also in the Commission, of our requests to maintain protection, including in favour of fragile workers, and to extend them for as long as necessary. We have expressed the need for some important measures for the primary sector. We have entered the government above all in the spirit of not cutting taxes and we do not want this important element to be flooded with other choices. These are choices that we do not share and, therefore, we will always work and monitor to ensure constant and concrete support for the productive sectors and families, in order to try to hang up that recovery that seems lost to date. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this document of economics and finance prepares the basis for what must be the coming years of economic management of this country. However, I am concerned about this. I'm a member of the Health Commission of this Senate. Within this DEF it is written that the level of financing of the standard national health needs will drop in the coming years as a percentage of GDP. GDP is seen to be growing and the financing of our health care is seen to be declining. With regard to the actual nominal share, slightly falling, but with regard to the percentage of GDP is a sustained decrease. This is not good, Mr President. It's not okay because we're getting out of a pandemic and we've been saying for two years how badly our health system was hurt by the definancing of the previous decade. At last we had reversed the growth, we were going up, and instead now we find ourselves again looking suspiciously at the data of this DEF. We can't let our guard down. In fact, even if there are 20 billion coming into the PNRR for structural investments in our health care, within the structures that we are creating we must still have people working. There is a need for services to be provided. We were behind. There are regions that do not yet guarantee the essential levels of assistance (LEA) and instead of further increasing funding, we take steps backwards; we cannot Let's have it. Instead, we need to increase the number of places in our nursing schools. It is necessary to increase the posts in the three-year degree, also by establishing a second-level degree for community nurses. We have all welcomed their recruitment, there are still so many to hire, but they must have adequate training. In order to increase the number of nurses to be trained, it is necessary that the profession is captivating, therefore it must then have salaries and allowances that have still been waiting for two years, which have been financed and not paid. [[Applause]] There must be teachers inside universities to train these nurses. We still need a lot of things. More resources are needed for pharmaceutical spending, whose roof is broken every year for direct purchases. This is not because you don't know how to handle spending well, but because there are innovative therapies every year. There is a need to provide adequate care and new treatments for rare diseases cost. There are advanced therapies, gene therapies, which we still do not know how to make sustainable for our National Health System because we are trapped within spending parameters and justification for spending, even at European level, which do not allow an innovative approach from this point of view. To spend today on gene therapy means not having a patient in charge of the health system and our sociality throughout his life, it means then having parents who remain more productive when the patient is small, but who will not need a caregiver throughout his life; they will be long-term savings for our health care and will also be an active citizen throughout his life. So in the long term the expenses we face today for these innovative treatments will then be absorbed and amortized. We must think in the long term about these expenditures, without being engulfed by the rules of the budget. We've been out of two years of pandemics, we've all seen that a lot of patients have a history of covid because they're suffering from what's called long covid syndrome. We need to predict multidisciplinary specialist centers to follow these patients. We have provided exemptions for them when they leave a long hospital stay, but there are patients with long Covid syndrome who have been treated at home by that territorial medicine that so often failed, but that many times has been effective and has avoided hospitalization. You have to recognize it. [[Applause]] Multidisciplinaryness must become a rule not only on the long Covid, but on many other pathologies that need different specialists who follow the patient. Such specialists must learn to follow the patient even at home. Another lesson from Covid is that many cases, for example, chronic or elderly patients, can be effectively followed at home without the need to increase the weight borne by our hospitals. This is why we need further investments, prepared people, general medical doctors with more specific training. We must anticipate the transition from the current regional training grants to specialized university training. For this reason, resources are needed; at present, training doctors receive less than university residents. Therefore, we must find the resources for this passage and if we continue to definance our health care this passage will never do so and the holes of territorial medicine will never fill them. [[Applause]] Finally, Mr President, we must pay more attention to the field of prevention, because "prevention is better than cure" is not just a proverb that our grandmothers recited to us, it is the truth in the medical field, because so many pathologies could be prevented or attacked in an early way, rather than waiting. This applies to oncology and other diseases, above all we must invest again to recover the very long waiting lists that we have not yet attacked effectively and that is why we need to allocate additional resources, not remove them. Prevention, in particular, requires attention to environmental medicine, to those systems that must combine environmental problems with the health problems that result from it. I read two days ago that in Acerra, in the land of fires, there is an increase in the relative risk of getting sick by 1.7, which means that those who live there have 170 percent more chance of getting sick than other Italian citizens. This disparity from one region to another, from one territory to another, is not acceptable. [[Applause]] Mr President, let us not turn off the lighthouse that we have lit over the last two years on our health care, let us invest again, let us not take away resources. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u28	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u29	Mr President, frankly, this DEF - all colleagues have anticipated it - is already a photograph of the past. It is clear to everyone that unfortunately the continuation of the war in Ukraine will necessarily lead us to a confrontation with reality on so many indicators that are all downward. However, I would like to address myself to the Undersecretary more on some strategic issues, because, as the previous speaker also said, at a certain point it is spontaneous to ask who you pay in this country. We are talking about subsidies, about investment in the state, but in the end who produces income and income? I can't figure out where we get all this money from. I am afraid that investment in this country is perhaps a key element, and we are still on the stakes. We are talking about PNRR, we are talking about various forms of support, we are talking about deviations, President Monti also said so, and I share some of what he said earlier, but the issue of investment is never addressed here. It is news of the day before yesterday that in Lazio, 100 kilometers from Rome, to Anagni, a multinational specialized in the field of vaccines, the Catalent, which had to invest over 100 million euros in that small but important quadrant, goes and does it not because there is no money, but because there is bureaucracy, they did not have the permits - I imagine of environmental impact - for which they take those 100 million and go to London (the famous London about which everyone speaks about the effects of Brexit). Mr. Undersecretary, if we don't finally face this dilemma about how income is produced in this country, we risk being impaled. Do we want a country where we bet on free initiative or do we want a country made up of subsidies? If we want a country made of subsidies, sooner or later the coffers will not be able, between pensions and INPS, to keep pace with social inclusion, which is fundamental, but we must also create conditions, the famous GDP. On the subject of energy, let me tell you, as you will know better than I do, that two or three years ago a party here, which I am glad to have changed its opinion on gas today, had legitimate battles not to make the TAP. The very authoritative representatives of this party, which is now part of the Government, go to Azerbaijan to ask for a doubling of the gas supply. This is the paradox of Italy in recent years: we had to follow ideological battles aimed at consensus and then, unfortunately, clash with reality, first the pandemic and today this bloody war. Even on Europe, we are not in the primitive era, two to three years ago there were parties who claimed that we should get out of the euro and the European Union and instead Europe showed economic and financial solidarity in pandemics, with Eurobonds. We hope, as convinced Europeans, that on the issue of energy supply there will also be this solidarity (on the strategic issue of common defence let us forget it). If in this country we do not deal with the issues of investment and simplification in the energy sector, we risk remaining on the stake, with so many beautiful words that do not materialize. Do you know how many applications for authorization for photovoltaic systems are available at MISE? It's an incredible amount, but it's missing who puts the damn stamp of nothing. So we sanction so many fine principles with so many provisions, but the reality is then firm on the stake because there is no obstacle. Without those obstacles, we cannot build an alternative supply to Russian gas. I avoid talking about the facilities in the Adriatic: anyone of us passes on the coast, from Abruzzo to Emilia-Romagna, sees these closed facilities in the middle of the sea. On the other side of the coast they are all open, while we, for ideological reasons, have abandoned them to their destiny. This is how we have the "defaced" environment and at the same time we do not even exploit it. I wonder if this paradigm can be changed sooner or later. Perhaps, Madam Undersecretary, an objective law would be needed to change it. The Berlusconi government adopted it in terms of infrastructure. You know well, as do those of us who have administered territories, that we are going to crush with the interests of the territory; we cannot build and open a plant because the mayor of the country is reproached by citizenship and the particular interests overlook the general and even strategic interests of the country. It would therefore be appropriate to adopt an objective law along the lines of the Infrastructure Act approved under the Berlusconi Government. Yet, when there is to run Italy knows how to run. I think of the bridge of Genoa: in a year we have realized a mastodontic work. If we do not start to act in this light, we risk remaining on the stake, Madam Undersecretary. There is another theme related to this blessed DEF, that of companies in difficulty. I followed at the hearing the Minister Franco, to whom I asked the following question: Minister, in your opinion in Italy is it possible to knock down a building, ask for the building concession, have a new project approved, rebuild it and then have the compatibility and all the obstacles of the competent municipality in two years? I've never seen such a thing in Italy. The Revenue Agency legitimately says that until 30 June 2022 the earthquakebonus should be applied to 85 and not to 110%. And why, since there is a law in force? The Revenue Agency legitimately responds: because it is misunderstanding and we do not know how to act. Madam Undersecretary, do you realize, with these small and trivial examples, how much uncertainty is created in who should invest in protection of safety (I think of the sysmabonus), but also of energy saving? All this lawlessness does is induce those who want to invest to leave and not to bet. A country that does not know how to look to the future by betting on itself is destined to brain and economic death. If we do not give those cards and those possibilities, in Italy we can talk every day about promoting health care and increasing pensions and salaries, but we do not know who pays and where to take the necessary money. This is perhaps a strategic asset that deserves more attention from all of us, despite the enormous efforts that this Government is making. I do not want to go any further, because I would risk repeating the speeches that preceded me. In my view, another issue to be highlighted is infrastructure. Let's think about Rome, where we are. Do you realize this town doesn't have a heat-to-energy generator? The capital of Italy, with 3 million inhabitants, is unable to decide where to make a blessed burner and we are so overwhelmed by the garbage. If we don't start from the bottom, but we fly so high in shaping the reference frames, we risk reality then bringing us the bill. If we do not understand that there is a need for a cultural revolution, with a new pact between state and citizen and at the centre of which there is not the State, but the citizen who feeds the State, we risk approving so many measures in support of the weakest, without understanding that sooner or later reality will bring us the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u30	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to dedicate the minutes available to me to Stefano Puzzer, who was fired in an illegitimate manner, in my opinion; a port in Trieste, a man who fought for his ideas and was punished: labour retaliation. Our solidarity and the support of our parliamentary group go to him. I would like to devote these minutes to the workers of Pam Panorama del Lazio, hit by 200 redundancies: once again the economic interests of multinationals crush workers with relocations, for which nothing has been done. I would like to dedicate them to the exodus of trade, 500 workers without economic support, abandoned: for them there are no resources, for weapons yes. Guns yes, workers no: a shame. I would also like to return to a thorny subject: the ITA-Alitalia workers. Alitalia's call center consists of 543 workers who have lost their jobs. Today they have published a video on YouTube: "Good morning, we are Alitalia". But, gentlemen, there is one problem: Alitalia no longer exists. With ITA we risk that Italy no longer has a flag company, because we are selling it out, auctioning state quotas. This is your document of economics and finance: a truly cynical DEF, which has forgotten the workers. This government simply thinks of the interests of the banks, in an economy now far from the interests of the citizens. So much so that in a measure of this Government there is talk of temporary exclusion of workers' rights: the right to work is excluded, it is frozen. Well, gentlemen, this is no longer a Republic based on work, but on private interests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u32	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u33	Mr President, it seems that the forecasts of the Economic and Financial Document correctly weigh a sort of precautionary clause, because of the fear that the course of events that have affected us in recent years may become even worse. In our memory, it had never happened that the Government had to present the document of economy and finance in a condition so full of serious uncertainties and, beyond the weakness of our economy, the DEF has been defined in a framework of high inflation, heavy social inequalities, rising prices of energy, raw materials, food, a pandemic that has so far killed 160,000 people and, finally, in a condition of war, which obliges us to reflect carefully on the consequences of the end of peace in Europe. We need to be careful about the use of words. So, just as it would not be right for Italy to talk about the economy of war, it would not be wise to neglect the heavy unknowns that war is causing. It is true that after the Second World War peace in Europe was broken in 1956 in Hungary, 1968 in Czechoslovakia, 1981 in Poland, in the 1990s in Bosnia; but today for Europe and for the world the drama has profoundly changed nature. The territory of Ukraine is as vast as France and enters as a large wedge into the heart of Europe. Putin's war has the explicit objective of its annexation, in whole or in part, to Russia. In two months the war has probably caused more than 50,000 deaths and its consequences will be long and will produce profound changes, not only in the European theatre, but also in the global geopolitical balances. Fifty years after the collapse of the bipolar world order, the world has entered a long transition phase in which the war in Ukraine has marked a dramatic turning point. At the heart of Europe, a great power such as Russia has broken the universal principle of respect for the borders and sovereignty of a democratic state in an attempt to replace international law with the law of the strongest. It is difficult not to grasp in Putin's strategy the confirmation of his beliefs about the decline of liberal democracies and the supremacy of authoritarian regimes like his. It is difficult not to see in the Russian invasion of Ukraine the first act of a challenge to Europe and the West. This is the framework that must guide us in the examination of the DEF. In an economy conditioned by a destructive war, with the inflation rate exceeding 6%, it was not easy to set the state budget by continuing to respond to the urgent needs of households and businesses, reducing public debt and predicting GDP growth. Given these objective difficulties, Parliament has not only the duty to approve the conclusions of the DEF, but also to express appreciation for the rigour with which the country's condition is represented and the duty to push the gaze beyond the DEF, because among the factors that can affect the future of our society will also have great importance the evolution of our political system and the strengthening of the European institutions. In this sense war can make us more lucid and push us towards the truth: truth for a Europe that is becoming aware of how much the costs have interrupted the path drawn in Ventotene towards a complete political unity, beginning with foreign and defence policies; truth about the government of the economy, when it is now evident as the financial crisis of 2007, the Covid and now the war have abruptly made necessary, not only in Italy, an ever greater presence of the State in the economy; truth for the institutions of our country, which has a desperate need for a collective reaction to its weaknesses. In less than a year's time, Italy will vote again and the next Parliament will have to show that it is able to exercise a constituent responsibility (of course in a political sense), because the war is showing with brutal evidence how much Italy needs a strong democracy, an efficient state and a reliable political system. The next Parliament will have on its shoulders the vast backwardness of those reforms that our democracy, through political impotence, in none of the latest legislation has succeeded in approving. At a time when the centrality of Europe and the West is at stake, a good document of economy and finance is not enough to make Italy grow; the good work of the Government is not enough: politics is needed. And this will be the task of the new Parliament, which will have to assume its responsibilities on the end of equal bicameralism, on the strengthening of the Government, on the definition of the powers of the President of the Council, on the implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution and on the new relations between the State and the Regions. We cannot risk that an important legislature like the next one starting badly without us, Members of the current legislature, at least adapting the House and Senate Regulations to the reduced composition of the Assembly. I shall conclude with a few considerations on the electoral law, without entering into the debate on the content, but only because without a good electoral law our democracy will be lame. In this parliamentary term, the electoral law has produced the most blatant and anomalous majority reversals in the whole history of the Republic and we all know that if it is not changed, the damage could be repeated. If we want the next Parliament, which is visibly reformed in the number of members, to be able to exercise its responsibilities with dignity also on the government of the economy, we must know that much will depend on the electoral law that will determine its condition. Despite this perspective, many people believe that they cannot change the electoral law: it is this resignation that the DEF that we are examining asks us to beat. The electoral law must be changed not because it damages or favours this or that party, or this or that coalition, but because it does not respect the right of citizens to choose their representatives and does not help the birth of stable governments. I should like to conclude, Mr President: the DEF is the most important economic policy document in the government and - I say this with great respect - I would have appreciated, while thanking the Minister and the Undersecretary present, the presence in the Chamber of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Especially in times of war, no DEF can ever guarantee the economic development and social justice of a country in which democracy and institutions are weak. The few months of life that remain in this Parliament do not allow him to have great reform ambitions, but our vote on the DEF can change sense if we are able to achieve at least what is needed in the next parliamentary term to well start his work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u34	I would like to point out that Minister Franco could not be present today, because he is in Washington. I warned the group leaders last week.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u35	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u36	Madam President, the Document of Economy and Finance of 2022 reveals in an incontrovertible way the determination of the Government of the best not to pursue the interest of the Italians: neither of the socially disadvantaged categories, nor of those that constitute the pivot of our economy. Let's start with cuts in health and school: as far as school is concerned, we are going from 4% of GDP in 2020 to 3.4% of 2023, a percentage that is set to fall further because - it is said - of the demographic decline. Of course, we are the taillight in Europe for investment in education. If we wanted to improve the training offer in our schools, what better opportunity than that offered by the demographic decrease to turn that surplus into investment and solve the endemic gap problem in student learning, especially in STEM disciplines? On the other hand, there is still working in the opposite direction and the only investments made in schools are those aimed at transforming the constitutional right to education into individual demand services: summer school plans, investments in the nest and childhood sector, four-year high school or business training centre (ITS). All the rest of the formation is degenerated and depowered to make tomorrow's citizen increasingly vulnerable and decontextualized, so that he is accustomed to living in an infinite present, without past and future, unable to react critically to the flow of media information and, above all, to the propaganda of the regime. The market school, which has been building for over 20 years, kills social mobility. On the other hand, it is clear that such a system of education has been conceived for the enslavement of the masses, in the face of a private school which will simultaneously form the offspring of the elites for a return to a feudalism both cultural and material. But let's move on to the health cuts. The health-to-GDP ratio, 7 per cent in 2022, is expected to increase to 6.2 per cent in 2025. Investment in medical-generic care is expected to fall by 4.1 per cent, and pharmaceutical assistance is expected to increase by 2.3 per cent. It is clear that where there is a need to promote pharmaceutical lobbying, money is always found; where there is a right to care, there is only spending review (the same principle that applies to the right to education). [[Applause]] Our hospitals, after more than two years of oriented Covid health governance, are reduced to lagers. The emergency service is in disposal, ambulances are frequently demedicalized and the Italian healthcare staff, thanks to the punitive suspensions, is replaced by foreign personnel of dubious training and competence, even linguistic. But if Athens cries, this time Sparta doesn't laugh. At last, even if late, the complaints of Confindustria come, that, after having until now skinned its hands to applaud the savior of the homeland, at good time perhaps understood who really has to do with it. The policies put in place by the Government to temporarily calm the rising costs of energy and fuel, due to the effect of masochistic, interventionist and atlantist policies, are completely illusory and palliative. If the government does not hurry to sterilize the increases, 40 billion GDP will be lost, production will go into crisis, thousands of businesses will close and hundreds of thousands of jobs will be lost. What this DEF preludes, also together with the crazy measures of increasing military spending to 2%, with even cutting VAT and excise duties on arms, is a real slap in the real country, bombed for two years with useless lockdowns and hiccups, which prevented companies from planning their investments, seriously undermining profits and bringing many to closure. At this point, a posteriori, there is the legitimate doubt that all this was not accidental, but was part of a precise strategy of indebtedness, devaluation and sale of the productive activities of our country. They are concerned about the DEF, among them the notorious framework law on differentiated autonomy, which aims to crystallize the gap between the rich and the backward regions, making it uncompromising. In fact the government flaunts to want to respect only the LEPs and not also the standard requirements, does not mention to want to anticipate the overcoming of the infrastructural gap between the Regions and let itself be glimpsed, now that we are at the end of the legislature, to follow the preintese of 2018, that would even prelude to the special autonomy surreptitious. The one about differentiated regionalism has all the air of a pre-election maneuver and I doubt that this gangherate majority will find an agreement on such a divisive theme. But the attitude of the government, in its ambiguity, does not reassure anyone. In the national disaster that emerges through this Document, of course, Italy's primacy could not be lacking in war-pandemic emergencies, against which citizens are exposed to catastrophic socio-economic consequences. While decrees are being made to promote international competition, therefore, the best work to destroy the domestic economy and to increase the private debt of Italians, in order to limit their ability to compete with foreign investors in the control of national strategic public services and goods. Dragons and its majority are leading the Italians to become the rags of the trans-national financial elites, to whom with the adopted line the government is paving the way to plunder everything that is ours. No other European government is so determined to devalue, destroy and sell its own country; in this, ours is truly the leader, unique in the Community panorama. Ours is the only government that has imposed mass experimentation on an unarmed population, punishing dissent in a violent and oppressive way, while it is literally giving 9 billion to the Benettons, plus a billion Covid refunds, for having mismanaged motorway concessions until it determines 43 victims. We are the only ones who, while depending on 40% of gas requirements from Russia, have given unconditional availability to a total embargo, with the proposal to remedy the consequences by lowering the temperature of the radiators by a degree. Is that anything else or servility? To posterity and sliding doors the arduous sentence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u37	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, those who said earlier that what we are discussing is one of the most important acts, if not the most important, given that the Economic and Financial Document, in the conditions in which we are today, which I do not extend to describing because we know them well, is certainly the most complex act ever that a Government has found itself doing. This is for the very simple reason that it must make predictions at a time when, evidently, thinking of making predictions might objectively seem a little eager. Having said that, we are faced with a series of events that are considered and unpredictable, also as happened over time, namely the pandemic crisis, war and inflation, with the rise in prices that has been mentioned. However, in the face of these unpredictable events, I believe that our task, therefore the task of the majority supporting the Government, is first of all to keep the bar straight on some fundamental issues. When it comes to a straight line, the first thing to keep in mind, even with reference to what I have heard in the speeches that have taken place here in the Assembly, is that the Government has already approached the matter, if it has not even regulated it with decree-laws. I have listened carefully to concerned speeches about inflation and, above all, the work of the PNRR. However, I would remind you that, on this matter, the Government has already made a series of price reviews, has set up and implemented a fund to cope with the increase in the cost of materials, it is holding a series of interlocutions with the greater association of the builders, in order to prevent the auctions to be deserted - that is the problem, rather than the increase in prices - and the Minister Franco, in the hearing before the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, announced ad hoc measures for projects already started in the municipalities, with reference both to the works to be carried out and to those being carried out, taking into account the fact that the prices go up, but that they could obviously also go down. However, we must be honest with ourselves, because we know very well that inflation, in the face of the interventions that the Government and Parliament can make, still has origins from the moment when the first phase of the pandemic ended, in the autumn of last year, as well as related to logistics and, certainly, to actions aimed at achieving extra profit: let us call them that, so that we understand ourselves, if we do not want to call them real speculations. I remember that, even today, the fact that the port of Shanghai is completely blocked, because of the Covid, is a further unpredictable event, which on the whole does not help. But this does not mean - I repeat - that we should not keep the bar straight on what the government intends to do and on the issues of substance. It is certainly right, when we are discussing - we have also done it in a very thorough way today in the Budget Committee - to indicate the criticalities, but this does not mean giving too much anxiety to the country, because it is our job to give the country messages I do not necessarily say extremely positive, but that they are responsible and above all that they do not generate those alarm peaks for which one day it seems that the aid for cars does not arrive and the day after the aid for this or this other sector does not arrive. We must also know how to communicate, in my opinion, to a country that needs trust and tranquility. Straight bar, I'm saying. With regard to net debt, we have had a splendid report, in addition, of course, to that of my colleague Mr Faggi, our Senator Ferro - let me say this - which has analysed precisely and perfectly all the issues relating to net debt in terms of absolute value, of the relationship with GDP and also of the revenues, which are not homogeneous but have a leopard stain trend, a little 'increasing and a little 'no'. On the fiscal pressure, which is particularly close to our heart and on which many colleagues have spoken, I would like to say that there is a very cautious indication within the DEF: we are moving towards a downward trend, and we know why. An Irpef picture has been made for which it is expected to go from 43.1 of this year to 42.2 of 2025. This does not mean deceiving the people by saying that we are lowering the tax burden; it means trying to understand, in a situation of extreme difficulty, how to be able to live up to the most important pacts, first of all the one concerning the non-upgrading of the tax burden. Increasing, among other things, that very often also needs to be deepened with reference to tax concessions classified as expenses, which therefore need to be reviewed and analysed. Therefore, we have a DEF that also from this point of view indicates Prudently, taking into account the overall picture, the data concerning the tax burden. There is one particular aspect that I would like to focus on, namely the increase in indirect taxes, and I believe that a reflection should be made on this, because indirect taxes, in addition to the various additional taxes, are those which create an indefatigable accumulation. We must then make a fundamental assessment, which also comes from the European Commission's approach, namely that tax evasion in this country is fought mainly on the issue of non-invoicing. I believe that from this point of view we are called to make a reflection, because today's tax evasion is not so much the missed receipt - I am not an economist, I give an opinion - or the omitted invoice, unless of course they are criminal aggregations. It goes through other channels, for example those of electronic payments (I don't make names and surnames because I don't want to target either platform); they go through the cryptocurrencies, which now have a remarkable circulation and are almost completely out of control, because they are difficult to understand. However, most of the escape is there, also taking into account the mountain... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] With regard to the single text of local authorities, these authorities have clearly come along with the regions to talk about their difficulties; I believe that a transparency operation with regard to the costs incurred and to be incurred is needed. Then there is the game that concerns health, the disabled and those who are not self-sufficient. In fact, I do not agree with my colleague who said that there are no resources for the whole health and social sector; I believe that there are so many of them, we must have the determination and the will to follow it and, above all, to ensure quality information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u39	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u40	Mr President, compared to the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance (NADEF) of 2021, with the financial forecasts, we have seen a sharp deterioration in the update. At first the country experienced the great pandemic crisis, which had devastating effects on health, but also on the economy, and therefore on the lives of businesses and families. There have also been damage to the perception of life, so we have seen a suffering that has left deep signs, because most people had never experienced such a dramatic moment, made of renunciation, fear, many times also induced by a climate of terror, let me say it. In this regard, I would like to hope that, as in other European countries, even in Italy, against the omicron variant, we will not arrive at a further closure, because our country, our entrepreneurs, our families could not overcome this moment; therefore I really hope that we will adapt to other countries and not repeat the closures. This picture of suffering and difficulty, at a time when, thanks to the precise actions of the Government, there was also a substantial recovery, therefore an atmosphere of optimism (it was certainly mentioned the whole theme of bonuses and superbonus, which have accelerated the recovery), we have fallen to the head this obsession of war, with the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. This is also an unexpected fact, absolutely new and I must say that on this dramatic issue too, I fear that information, which must always be free, will create an atmosphere of distress from morning to evening. Maybe we don't need to watch the war for 24 hours a day. All wars are horrible and bring suffering, but I think it would be more important for people to have less exposure to this bombardment. In any case, this is our situation. We found ourselves dismayed, as suddenly attacked on several fronts: surely for a long time before we found ourselves attacked from the point of view of raw materials. Already last year we were asking the question of the scarcity of raw materials, which put in difficulty the companies that transformed and evidently caused an increase in prices. Since last year there has been difficulty in finding steel; already last year there was difficulty in finding plastic and wood, so companies have found themselves having to stop this change and live with it. The war further exploded this situation with an additional increase in energy costs. As some colleagues have already pointed out, it is necessary to reflect on the ecological transition, which we all want, is clear; but I think we can say that at the moment we must have more plans, one in the short, one in the medium and one in the long term and certainly, if in the long term we can think of alternatives, in the short term we must make ourselves independent not only from Russian gas, but absolutely we must use the resources that exist also in our country and that we have decided not to use. If conditions have changed, perhaps we must also change our approach, which does not mean that we do not disown a medium and long-term trend, but it means saving our accounts and having less difficulty in finding natural gas, for example. We must undoubtedly discuss this, otherwise it becomes a boomerang. Why hurt us? Not at all. We really use common sense. There are also other considerations that I want to make and concern the difficulties, as everyone has already said, of businesses and families. I remember that one of the first measures taken under the 2019 Budget Act was that of the 400 million for municipalities, for the safety of roads, schools, public buildings and so on. That was the first expansive maneuver to give the municipalities the opportunity to provide with necessary works for the population. The bonuses gave an additional input, but in the municipalities we find ourselves unable to go ahead with the works, because there was an indiscriminate increase in raw materials; an increase certainly there may be, but what happened also concerned voices that nothing has to do with a real increase and this is an exclusively speculative fact. We must then take action on this too. It is not possible to agree to see the work and the construction sites blocked, with the budgets of the municipalities in difficulty and doing nothing. There are dozens and dozens of implementing decrees that must be carried out and that are firm, on which depends the proper functioning of municipalities, businesses and families. As local administrator I sometimes think that for the valiant who are in the Ministries - for charity, people undoubtedly of great value and competence - some internships should be foreseen in the simple and humble Municipalities, where life really takes place, with citizens asking for short-term answers. The roads, in fact, have to be fixed. Maybe the ceiling of a school suddenly shows cracks and you have to give answers quickly. In this sense too, therefore, I think that there must be a meeting point between the activities of the Ministries, between those who then have to lay down the implementing decrees, and what must happen downstream in the Municipalities. There is also another problem, however, that in the municipalities they find themselves having to stem: it is the demand on the part of people, the families of traders and businesses to have a simpler life; there is an incredible social discomfort that is growing. In the budget law and in other measures we have allocated strong resources to support psychological distress. We have them for schools, for women and so on. We've done a lot, but that's not enough. It is not enough, because we must treat society in the most serious way: for there to be aggregation, for there to be social peace, for a moment of difficulty to be overcome all together. We must think of a new humanism, which starts with people who, even in difficulty, are willing not to break everything, but to roll up their sleeves because there is a program. But it must be a program from all over the country: you can think of working, of better crossing the demand with the supply, which, unfortunately, with the income of citizenship has not been done. The first part has been completed, that of assistance, but not that of job search and overcoming the difficulty. We must try to bring these realities together. A new country, with a different perspective, beyond the war, can only be born if the family is re-founded, which still remains the fundamental nucleus, but must be put in the conditions to grow together, to make everyone grow. The same goes for the enterprise, which must certainly think of the realization of the entrepreneur, but also of the work, the development and the realization of the workers. It is a new country that we must have in mind. Otherwise, if this social cohesion and progress do not take place, I fear that the gap will open up more and more and we will not really be able to think of a balanced and constructive development of our country. We must move towards a new humanism. I hope that many of you will be able to share and help this process, for what we can do in this House. And I think it may not be that small. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u41	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u42	Mr President, Secretary of State for War, ladies and gentlemen, families, businesses, work, economic recovery and development: we have very clear priorities ahead of us, all united by an objective, to prevent the recovery from being blocked. That recovery that we had managed to bring about a very positive growth over the last year, thanks to the Dragon Government. Today it is important to support the Government even more compactly on this Financial Economic Document, which has the merit of pointing to the issues of greatest urgency, although it had been given birth at a very different stage from the current one, not martyred by the outbreak of the war. Now, instead, we find ourselves confronted with needs produced by an extremely difficult scenario. Our agenda, in fact, in this historical phase is dictated, unfortunately, by an implacable enemy: the war, in fact, that is added to the crisis from Covid-19 that we were already facing before and that forces us to redesign the priorities. This can only be the moment of responsibility. This is the season in which concrete action must be taken, leaving aside pretentious polemics that are likely to be dictated only by the approaching elections. This is why, as Italy Viva, we have no doubt in supporting this text, which first restores the 4.5 billion used in the so-called bill decree and which then has the merit of identifying additional 5 billion resources that will give us the possibility to guarantee new aid to the economy, following four orders of interventions clearly: the containment of the prices of fuels and energy, fundamental in order to avoid that entire supply chains are brought to their knees with the consequent repercussions on the productive and occupational fabric; the increase of the funds to cover the increase of the prices of public works, with the aim of preventing a virtuous circuit that makes the economy turn and brings work. It is also positive that the funds for credit guarantees have been increased, which effectively frees up liquidity for businesses and puts them in a position to overcome the immediate impact of the war, as well as the slips that can still occur in relation to the pandemic. In the majority resolution, we insist in particular on the ecological transition, calling for the resources released by the DEF to finance actions to achieve two priority objectives at the moment: to pursue greater energy autonomy and diversify supplies, in particular by providing for a national strategic plan, to be updated regularly, and a European ceiling at the price of gas. In this resolution we also call for greater transparency in the energy market by adopting the decoupling of prices between electricity produced from renewable sources compared to the gas market. The hope is that an extraordinary energy fund financed by the issuance of a new common European debt with a mechanism similar to that of the Next generation EU can be envisaged, in order to guarantee the possibility of accessing loans at preferential rates to support our and other countries in the continuation of the implementation of the green new deal. We must not allow the development of the facts to call into question the achievement of the commitments made on the environment and on sustainable development. This is also why, albeit reluctantly, the two resolutions also call for the possibility of a budgetary deviation. If the macroeconomic scenario were to deteriorate further - which unfortunately cannot be excluded - we must be prepared to release additional resources. It is very wise that the Government pursues a prudent policy on public finances and it is very appropriate that this DEF should try not to provide additional debt. However, we cannot rule out the need for this option. That is why we must keep open the hypothesis of a possible deviation, given the scale of the emergencies that we face. We also find positive the industrial policies adopted in the measure to support, for example, the automotive industry, with measures to promote the production of non-polluting vehicles with the support of innovation and the conversion of the production chain. As are the positive investments aimed at the semiconductor industry; a market whose development is fundamental and strategic, as we have unfortunately had to see from the interruption of some industrial productions also in our country precisely because of the lack of microchips. That is why it is good that even on such a sensitive chapter the Government shows far-sightedness. In short, a general and broad action of the Executive Draghi that is destined to have a positive impact on the country's wealth, so much so that it is estimated a forecast of growth of about 3%. A cautious assessment, downwards compared to what we had expected until February, when we were aiming realistically at an ambitious +4.1 percent, but the war is unfortunately causing these predictions to fade. That is why we must now do everything we can to ensure that the efforts for a sustained recovery are not wasted. We owe it to the companies, who have held fast in these two years of pandemics, we owe it to the families that have faced smart working, DAD and all the economic and health upheavals related to Covid and we owe it to the Italians and Italians who are struggling to recover from the posthumous health emergency and now expect, rightly, to be protected from the effects of the war. Faced with this great collective effort that we are all called to make, in the face of the need to limit the impact of crisis and war on families and businesses, the political polemics that have recently ignited on this document appear out of place. These are polemics that may be good for a muscular display, but they are not up to the gravity of the moment, a moment when there is a need for a strong sense of responsibility and when it is not the case to weaken the Government with illations about alleged tax increases. Here there are no increases, the same fiscal delegation does not provide for increases in taxes for the citizen and it is serious that a piece of the same majority tries to exploit a distorted narrative with campaign tones. In conclusion, President, with this DEF we identify resources useful to deal with the consequences of the pandemic from Covid, but also to cope with the emergencies produced by the new serious situation caused by the war and we do the impossible to prevent that virtuous curve of growth that we had begun to travel. Despite the many problems, we take decisive action and do so as a majority, so as such we must ensure maximum support for the Government, overcoming sterile controversy. Italians and Italians not only ask us, but they also deserve less slogans and more concrete solutions, as we try to do with this DEF. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u43	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u44	Mr President, the Economic and Financial Document is perhaps the main instrument of economic planning, so it is the document that has the least certain data because it is entirely based on prospects. Before moving on to the perspectives, which are all contestable and objectionable, I would like to start from a reasoning on a central theme of these days, these weeks and these months, a theme that some friend and esteemed colleague of the Democratic Party has been called the "scare of taxes." I am sure that this reference was not addressed to the opposition, but that the colleague evoked it at the address of some of his government allies. In any case, I think that there is little to joke about this issue, because if there is a certain fact that reports the DEF is that for the third consecutive year the tax pressure has increased, so - speaking of numbers - we have reached 43.5% of tax pressure on GDP, which already puts us in the best - to use a euphemism - position in Europe and because I believe that we all know how GDP also takes account of the submerged, we can also imagine that if we consider the impact of tax on the legal economy, with a tax pressure of 43.5%, we would find ourselves at a 49 percent that would be worth the enviable record of being the country in Europe with the highest taxation in relation to GDP. So when it comes to tax scare, I say that taxes are an instrument that these majorities (I am referring to all those who have ruled in this and in the previous legislatures) have ignored too soon and faced without the due concreteness. The result is a limitation to growth and development. Let us not forget that we have grown by 0.7 with the tax burden 2021 on 2020, in the previous year by 0.5 and in the year before even 0.6. So for three years, as an opposition, we have been witnessing policies of Count 1, Count 2 and Dragons that mean growth in the tax burden. Then we are told (but here we are already in perspective) that, thanks to the wonderful interventions included in the budget law last December, in 2022 we will finally have a small drop in the tax increase. We will see whether this will be the case, because, in our view, the few denarii made available by the fiscal law for tax reduction will not allow a reduction in taxation and, as has been seen, mainly because of indirect taxation and VAT, we will probably have a tax problem in 2022 as well. On these issues I call on the majority to reason and understand that, without a fiscal policy instrument, we cannot get out of the pandemic and international crisis. It seems to me that everything that is happening in the majority and in the Government in the House, where there is a continual dispute over tax reform, is demonstrating what the Brothers of Italy have been saying for a long time, namely that in a time of difficulty and emergency we need not a Government of national unity (or, better, of national bickering), but a homogeneous Government that knows how to give a way to the country and does not have a majority and an opposition to its internal, knowing how to distinguish between who is majority (and is compact) and who is opposition (and then loyally and consistently opposition). Inside you there is everything and more and so I understand the colleague when he talks about the fear of taxes to the daughter-in-law so that her mother-in-law will understand. I turn to the numbers contained in the DEF and here again there is to worry. The DEF, compared to the previous year's and NADEF's numbers, shows a reduction in the growth forecast (1.8% less than expected a few months ago, due to the apparent international crisis situations), which stands at 2.9 percent. All non-party commentators and technicians, i.e. non-oppositionists (I can quote Professor Baldassarre, "Il Sole 24 Ore" today and Confindustria, which by definition is always government), tell us that your 2.9 percent is overestimated and that the realistic growth figure for 2022 varies between 1.3 and 1.9 percent. This means that we will still remain well below 2019 GDP and that, in fact, the country is in stagflation, that is, GDP does not grow, but inflation increases. We do not need to be Nobel laureates or academic academic academics to understand that in a state of stagflation we must intervene in a concrete way and have the courage to make very determined policies that your majority is unable to adopt for the reasons we have repeatedly said, namely because you are heterogeneous. In heterogeneity we do not determine a virtuous path; perhaps it determines the maintenance of our seats, our seats, our armchairs, but it is another topic. In heterogeneity, the interests of Italians, dear friends, are not taken into account. This is demonstrated by the fact that there is another issue that the DEF does not consider, that of the transfer of tax credits, because, if it really considered it, other than +3 percent, other than 1.3, other than 1.9! We're going to zero! We have businesses that are failing thanks to the games of this majority and this government. The first political force in Parliament, the 5 Star Movement, fought for tax credits. But then, ladies and gentlemen, the government does not make you a very good figure, since in the text of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 17, which we will examine tomorrow in this House, Article 29- bis provides for a paragraph in which the variations to reopen the disposals of tax credits are frustrated simply saying that the new provisions will apply to communications to the Agency of revenue made after 1 May; a bit like telling a sick person that he will be given the medicine for the influence that he will take tomorrow and not for what he has already taken and which he must cure. The majority, therefore, is not only incapable of having a precise and punctual identity path for the future of the country, but is not even able to impose itself with the Government. We have a Parliament that would agree on so many issues and a Government that then does what it wants, it ridicules you. The same is true of the resolutions we are about to vote on. I am sure, at least having read also the resolutions presented to the House, that we will agree on many points in Parliament; but they are resolutions which, like any simple agenda, will be destroyed by your Government, by the Government that you support. We will continue on a road that is not the one wanted by the representatives of the people, but it is probably the one indicated by other forces and by other realities, which are perhaps outside of this country. In conclusion, Mr President, this is not a virtuous path. Brothers of Italy asks for seriousness and respect for Italians. If you have plans, have the courage to carry them forward and force the government to do what Parliament and the majority who support it decide. Otherwise we'd better all go home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u45	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u46	Mr President, I think it is clear from the previous speeches - and I thank my fellow Members Mr Missa and Mr Zanda for being very timely - that this year too the debate on the Economic and Financial Document is far from technical and economic planning. It is a central political moment and, as such, like any political message, I think it requires a few things. In the meantime, attention should be paid to the messages that come out of this debate: language also counts. There is no confusion about the fact that the Italian Parliament is up to it, especially in the debate on an Economic and Financial Document which, as has been said, is affected by the effects of the uncertainty and fragility that have been and are produced by the dramatic war in Ukraine. I think that we must give some firm points to the Italians, beyond the data that have already been listed by the rapporteurs and beyond an approach, which seems obvious, of prudence that the Government has correctly assumed. First question: can Italians feel safe compared to the fact that Italy has the strength to recover even in the face of this further fragility? I think so. That is what Mr Missing said earlier. 6.6 percent beyond the forecast of GDP 2021 is a sign that highlights a country's ability to react and the ability of a productive system to create wealth. In the same way, what has been guaranteed these days by the Government, and that we in Parliament must guarantee, is that, when the situation gets worse, everything will be done to help families and businesses, as was done at the tremendous moment of the impact of Covid. So there are all the conditions to tell Italians that Italy is a great country and can also manage to overcome the difficulties that arise from this further fragility given by the war in Ukraine. Second point: what is the trajectory that you want to see with this Document? Italy was a running train that was based on two tracks: the first is that of a restored social cohesion after the tremendous effects of the Covid; the second is that of investments and, with them, the reforms of the PNRR connected to it. Well, it is clear to everyone that the effects of war are still difficult to establish, and that is why the correct attitude is that of prudence. We have two roads ahead of us to find out what the trajectory is: a road that says that the train has stopped; the other road says that we have to make sure that we correct all the distortions in order to try to keep the train running, and to ensure that the normality of which the President-in-Office of the Council has spoken is maintained. Are we worried? Yes, it is quite obvious, and I could list the reasons above all for the social impact of this concern and that this war produces. But the point is another: I refuse to consider prudence only in a negative sense; to be prudent also means to give back a picture that is capable of not taking away to Italy all the hope of a recovery that was in progress, and to do everything to make this happen with a resumption of the country's growth. Obviously, as I said before, if the trajectory is to correct the distortions in progress to allow the country to resume the march, what are the corrections? It has been said: inflation. I do not add much on this except one thing: it is impossible to imagine sufficient refreshments to compensate for inflation between 5% and 10%; there would never be enough. The point is to go to the source, especially on energy, with everything that is going on from the point of view of government policies to make the country more autonomous and what must be done to speed up investment in renewables, without absolutely agitation. There is also a topic of availability of raw materials cost. Both are disabling themes for growth, because a country cannot run if raw materials cost too much and if there are no raw materials. On this it is essential that there is immediate intervention. There is a theme of local finance. The budgets of the Municipalities have been made under conditions other than those that are present today in the face of the effects of this war, so you have to imagine how to compensate deficit problems. There is a problem with the work and people we know; there is the purchasing power, the spending power of families to support; there is the need to allow access to liquidity to businesses; there is the theme of social bonuses. All these themes (inflation, raw materials, local finance, purchasing power, social bonuses, corporate liquidity) are the corrections that need to be made in the coming months. What is the only possible place for us to deal adequately with these corrections? That is what my colleague Misses has already said: it is Europe. Also because if Europe does not do so, it means that Europe stands firm, and in the current context it would not be possible to do so. But there is one more thing and I say it this way: Europe is not just a question of scale, the only possible scale with which to deal with these corrections to be activated. Europe is facing a very clear challenge: we have before us the end of the debate on the new budgetary rules. Well, the budget rules are suspended in the face of an emergency, but when Covid and war in the space of a few months tell us that what was previously considerable, with the categories of the past, emergent becomes, albeit extremely impacting, structural factor with which to deal, then it is no longer an emergency. So the rules don't stop, they change or they start to change. This is the logic with which we must address this debate, in this context, in order to try to make Europe take a further step forward and make the corrections towards the normality we hope for. The fourth question is the PNRR. As a major investment plan, it will obviously have a number of negative effects due to this situation, but we must treat the PNRR for what it is: a very delicate and very fragile crystal vase. No general discussion about the changes; Italy cannot afford to miss this great opportunity. Italians cannot forget that there is a large investment plan, which went and goes, with its 200 billion, precisely in the direction of making structural another way of competing in the world. The fifth question is about politics. Dear Senator De Bertoldi, I think the theme is not so much homogeneity or coherence; I understand your point of view, but it is not mine, because the fifth thing we need to put a stop to in this debate is the following: that feeling of national unity that was valid in the emergency Covid may not be there anymore today? Can we get out of this debate with a Parliament, the highest Italian institutions, which give the idea of being more quarrelsome than before? Can this even happen in the majority? I think not; if there is a strong point on all of us, it is that our differences cannot be greater than common responsibility. I think this is even more true, because if our differences were more than common responsibility for us, that would be to the detriment of the two tracks we said before and we have already seen some warning about reforms. There is no chance of taking this country out of this further fragility and making it structurally more competitive, more sustainable and more just if we do not take back the two tracks of social cohesion and reforms. There is no possibility and on this we measure our joint responsibility. In conclusion, President, Covid and war have violently put us in front of a reality, just as we had never seen it: the global way of functioning of the world and the primary rights of people (school, work and health) have skipped. The relationship is off and they haven't been together. I think that building a new link between the global way of working in the world and people's primary rights is the real challenge between center-right and center-left, the one on which we will measure ourselves with different cultural settings. However, I think that none of the proposals that have that prospect will be credible, because politics will no longer be credible if those differences that we put on the field then do not allow us to keep a country standing, which is what we have to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to invest in a cultural transition, starting with the internationally recognised humanistic identity patrimony. We are called to draw an educational path that combines the necessary adherence to the required quality standards, also in the European panorama, with grafts of new subjects and methodologies and to combine scientific skills with those of the humanistic and multilingual areas. Finally, it is necessary to invest in the training of teaching staff in order to align the educational supply with the demand of the new generations. This is not my speech, but it is a part of the President of the Draghi Council's inauguration speech. Unfortunately, we have to see, more than a year later, how the announced prospect has turned out to be completely false. In this Programmatic Document, which is nothing more than the keystone of public spending, it emerges that the world of school, once again, will suffer yet another programmatic and economic mortification. So farewell to the investments announced for education. Everything happens, among other things, at a time when this majority, prostrated to NATO, is planning to increase its military spending. The pandemic had made it necessary to increase the pro tempore of the funds for the education sector; after the emergency, however, also the resources allocated disappear, leaving unsolved long-term problems, regarding which there is no strategic vision. In 2020, public spending on education amounted to 4% of the total, but, as the DEF shows, over the years it will fall to 3.5% in 2025, and then remain around that figure in the following years, even less than 3.6% in 2015. This is therefore a drastic decrease in investment. Consider that Italy was already devoting a percentage of its GDP to school below the European average, which is around 4.7%, while there are countries that even invest almost twice as much, such as Sweden and Denmark. Speaking in numbers, it is 20 billion euros less than the others, every year in our country. Not to focus on school and university, as promised! All this is unacceptable, because in a state-of-the-art country education expenditure cannot be reduced by 7%, as happened between 2010 and 2018, while university spending decreased by 19%. The Government therefore cuts resources just when we would need direct investments to enhance the professionalism of the teachers and to strengthen the offer of educational services. And the reduction in resources for the education sector cannot be justified by the reason for the decline in the population. On the contrary, this issue should be addressed by reassuring families with children that they can count on a good level of quality and quantity of education. Instead of increasing military spending, therefore, it would have been much more appropriate to allocate resources to train and educate our young people, who are the future of our country. The prospects of a state are based on youth training and upgrading in older age. A quality education system also contrasts social inequalities, for which unfortunately we are still the first in Europe. Among other things, on 26 February 2021 there was a European Council resolution setting out some very challenging common objectives: the reduction of early school leaving to a maximum of 10%, while in Italy there is an abandonment of 13%, and the reduction of 15-year-olds' share with poor reading, mathematics and science, to be achieved by 2030. Not to mention the need to reduce the chicken classes, where there is an average of 27 pupils per class. It is necessary to promote cultural integration and personal growth, without leaving anyone behind. There is a need to pay the best of your teaching staff, which already receives an average salary which is the lowest in Europe today. How can we face all these challenges if we reduce spending on school? How we're gonna get there The goal of the growth of our education system with less and less resources? Those relating to education will not be the only budget items that will be sacrificed, because the economic trend outlined by the Government leaves no way of how difficult the coming years will be. While the parties pretend to be on the land register and boast to be interested in families and businesses that cannot pay their bills, they silently vote for a series of rules that will bring more revenue to the state budget, to the detriment of small professionals, entrepreneurs and artisans (always the usual). The government of the best is always ready to say "yes" and only "yes" to Draghi, forgetting that to pay the salty accounts will then be the citizens. But for Dragons and all the good company, it's okay. Unimaginable goals for economic growth have even been achieved, epochal resources have been launched, weapons have been sent to Ukraine and, above all, the road to curbing the expensive bills has been crossed. Unfortunately, however, this triumphant and triumphalistic narrative clashes with the reality of the facts. Families are desperate, businesses on their knees and majority parties continue to support this government by thinking only of the next election campaign. And, as has already happened for the Monti Government, there will be, before the next policies, a hasty chase to the rediscovery of its identity, trying to make forget the lack of support for citizens in a dark moment like this and downloading the responsibility only on Draghi. However, I hope that Italian citizens will have a better memory than last time and remember those parties that, with their greedy and unconditional support to this Government, have helped to leave a heavy legacy on the future of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u49	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, last autumn's update to the DEF showed us, as we heard from the rapporteurs' voices, a forecast of real GDP growth in 2022 at 4.7%, with a rebound of the same GDP at the end of 2021, beyond the brightest expectations. Certainly for this rebound you have to consider the starting point, that is the negative figure of 2020, year of the lockdown, with a fall of GDP of 9 percent, but the rebound of 6,6% is all due to a good recovery of the economic system of the country, in which it has affected the control of the pandemic, thanks to the vaccination campaign. We began to see the light at the end of the tunnel, despite the snares of the virus always around the corner and despite the rising prices of raw materials, energy and gas, which already made a lot of noise at the time, but which made themselves felt clearly from last December. Then the outbreak of the war in Ukraine again put the country, Europe and the whole world in serious economic difficulty and in great concern for future forecasts. The document of economy and finance under discussion today revises the macroeconomic framework of our country, in which the historical events that we are experiencing, that no one three months ago would ever have imagined could happen, unfortunately have a predominant role. The DEF now expects GDP growth to be 2.9%, down 1.8 percentage points compared to NADEF estimates, and where the inflation figure to 5.6% contributes to a negative picture. Compared to this new scenario, which is certainly not static and which we do not know of how much and when it will change, Minister Franco also pointed out in the hearing that the deficit targets contained in NADEF are confirmed at 5.6% in 2022, so we speak of 10.5 billion euros, thus constituting an important margin for effective expansionary measures. Unfortunately, once again in the last three years, we are experiencing an emerging situation, in which the measures to support families and businesses in the immediate future must travel in conjunction with those finally structural, of which the country has extreme need, and that the PNRR, with the reforms connected to it, must convey. Therefore the measures launched to date to contain the prices of energy and fuels, for more than 10 billion euros, and those scheduled in the next decree-law, for about 6 billion euros. However, as we all know, there are still limited measures in terms of resources and time compared to what would be necessary. Then we must also courageously think about what will happen to the increase in current prices when the international scenario changes. They will hardly go down: let's remember the example of the exchange of liras in euros, without any control, so then it was no longer possible to go back. There is therefore a need to provide families with greater purchasing power. With this in mind, the trade unions are moving towards renewal of contracts, which take account of inflation, including increases in energy prices and import costs. Among other things, if we want to talk about support for families in difficulty, we also need to look at the ISEE's calculation structurally. It is therefore necessary to give more purchasing power to workers who, as the President of Confindustria has rightly pointed out, cannot, especially at this historic moment, be blamed on companies, who cannot even afford to increase the cost of labour. Forza Italia has always required an intervention on the tax wedge, but capable of raising wages significantly. Colleagues, it is time to give an important signal in this direction. It can be done, as President Bonomi proposes, through the greater tax revenues provided for in the DEF, but also - I continue - with a significant revision of the income of citizenship that, as it is now before everyone's eyes, does not work, not only for the scams connected to it - from last April 14 for 5 million euros perceived unduly - but also because restaurateurs, entrepreneurs, traders and the whole world of the enterprise in the broad sense find no workers. How can it be with an unemployment rate of 8.5%, or rather, with such a low employment rate of 59.6 percent? Let's leave aside the theme of mismatch for lack of skills and professionalism; I am alluding to the fact that there are no waiters, simple workers, cooks, agricultural workers and many other figures. If we want the country system to start again properly and not sobbing, we need to encourage work and invest in the enterprise in a broad sense, the only way to create real jobs. The first recipe proposed by Forza Italia is to give liquidity to companies. This does not just mean giving out bonuses, which, unfortunately, as we have seen, for the most part are not effective, but rather extending the guarantee fund and extending the moratorium on mortgages. Let's remember: if the enterprise is put in the condition of working and producing it has no problem in returning the loan, and for an organic development of the enterprise system you cannot constantly change the rules, just as it happened for the measure of the superbonus on which families and enterprises have taken account with their own programming. Of course, this measure could and had to be thought of differently, giving more responsibility to the clients, providing for controls from the beginning. All the system that revolves around the ecobonus now, however, must start again with the certainty of an extension that takes into account the block imposed by the Government, the difficulty of finding materials due to the lack of raw materials, the increase in prices and a possible transfer of credit also to the customers of the banks (measure, this, again questioned by the note of the Senate's budget service to decree-law n. 17 that tomorrow will arrive in the Chamber). It is enough to create uncertainties because ecobonus, as well as embellishing and regenerating our urban centres with a view to energy transition, creates jobs, jobs and GDP. Of course, in future, different measures will have to be envisaged, not only at the expense of the State, with a fair balance between state incentives and citizens' commitment. The Government must be particularly vigilant and ready to intervene, and here I invite you to speed up the enactment of the implementing decrees. As we often repeated during the pandemic, the timing has as important a value as the content of the interventions, because, while sharing the prudential estimates of growth reported in the DEF, we are aware of the possibility of unpredictable changes in the scenarios in relation to the evolution of the war in Ukraine, with effects on the economy not only Italian but also international; changes that, as we all see, are already in place. Compared to a year ago, in which the logic of bonuses was finally giving way to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, with the reforms to change the country, we are now again in a situation of having to talk about support for the dear energy and for the increase in prices in general, for the sanctions imposed on Russia that penalize thousands of our companies. There are many needs on the part of businesses and families. If a budgetary deviation is to be envisaged again in order to find additional resources, this will have to be done only after the necessary measures have been clearly identified and quantified, as this would have a further impact on the public debt. Just as attention must be paid to the state's accounts it is necessary to reorder the tax warehouse, removing those about 1100 billion tax credits inexpensive: it would be an important step to start with tax reform. Europe has demonstrated with the pandemic a unique vision of aiding the countries of the Union by intervening for the first time with the role thought then by the founding fathers. The new historical events that we are, unfortunately, living, push even more in that direction, with interventions by Europe that can finally facilitate the recovery of the country. The government is called upon to play a very important role in calling on the Union to have a less rigid vision of the system, with the revision of the Stability Pact, an extension of state aid for our companies, the revision of the PNRR to allow us to keep pace with the slowing down of works due to exogenous factors. There is a need for authority and President Draghi undoubtedly possesses this characteristic, but it also serves that the country does not lose confidence and that is why the Government and its majority must remain cohesive; a responsibility to which Forza Italia does not intend to escape, making its voice heard with its own proposals, as it has always done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u51	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u52	Mr President, the document on economics and finance is certainly an important step towards the end-of-year budgetary law. It is an important step, because it analyzes the health situation of the public accounts, analyses macroeconomic data and basically sets out the path of our country to arrive to define a fiscal law that is useful to the growth of our economy, in a period of great concern, of great stagnation and of great difficulty. I believe that it is difficult to define a DEF this year as a reliable forecast, because there are many elements of uncertainty that obviously affect these forecasts. All of us have spoken in this debate and we are repeating the same concerns well or badly: we are talking about energy costs, the cost of raw materials and also the difficulty of finding raw materials to feed our production system; we are talking about the cost of fuels and also about the crisis in finding food resources, which is not yet so obvious, but which could be real in the coming months. Then there is the trend of war, which is absolutely unpredictable, and the consequences it will have on the economy of Italy, Europe and the whole world. It must also be considered the most worrying figure of this beginning of the year, which is inflation: an inflation out of control, never so high, that does not even appear so credible in the estimates of ISTAT, which seem optimistic compared to the reality lived by our families, by our country system. We therefore believe that the DEF in question inevitably makes not necessarily reliable forecasts and, in our view, also quite optimistic. We understand that the government should not give rise to concern in public opinion, in families, with respect to the productive system that must have confidence to continue producing, working, investing and spending. This is right, but we hope that the Government will have the perception of the gravity of the situation, because this debate does not seem to be related to the reality that our country is experiencing. [[Applause]] There's a bigger economic emergency than the one caused by Covid. Europe has reacted quickly and effectively in the management of that emergency; today it seems slower, more uncertain, again divided, for example, in establishing a roof at the price of gas. Let us return to the interests of the individual nations that make up the European Union. Even on the use of the measure of budgetary deviation, it is obvious that if Italy used it autonomously the spread would grow and there would be a negative impact on the credibility of the Italian public accounts, with serious consequences. We need joint action from Europe, but it is not yet coming. The government is asking for great sacrifices in these months to the Italian people in order to face the emergency that we are experiencing; but it must face this crisis with the same courage and determination. It seems to us that our government is not quick and quick in decisions. There is not enough money for a few billion to slow down the increase in energy and fuel costs. They are palliative; they seem to be good intentions, but they do not face the gravity of the moment in a structural way. It is clear that the economic situation is dramatic, that the costs are unsustainable for families and for productive activities, despite the almost 20 billion allocated by the Government. These are important and enormous appropriations and we appreciate the effort made by the Commission and the majority, united in supporting these measures. That's a lot, a lot of 20 billion, but - alas - it's absolutely not enough. [[Applause]] There are very worrying signs. When there are steel mills, paper mills and strategic sectors of our industrial system that suspend production, it is not just a wake-up call; it is a situation that risks degenerating, because the entire production chain suffers from these industrial production suspensions. Unfortunately, the Government has been able to and has been able to give only partial answers, with substantial appropriations in the amount, but absolutely insufficient and inadequate to be effective. We therefore ask the Government not to lower its guard and to intervene more decisively. The budgetary deviation today is not an option, but a necessity and of course this decision must be taken at European level; it cannot be Italy alone that takes on this responsibility. We therefore ask the Government to succeed in obtaining a chance in this direction before the system jumps, because the time factor is also crucial: if we wait too long, companies and activities will close one after the other, without the possibility of reopening once the crisis ceases. Today we need a similar reaction to what Europe was able to put on the ground when the Covid emergency occurred, with important appropriations. The danger of a social crisis, as many colleagues have said, is at the door. There is a fire under the ashes; there is a situation of apparent calm in the country, but the suffering of many and too many Italian families, who are unable to pay and honor their debts, is at the limit. People and families who have always been good taxpayers today are no longer able to do so because the energy, gas and fuel costs, as we have said, are so high that even medium-sized salaries are absolutely inadequate to withstand this collapse. So let's be careful because, if the fire hatches under the ashes, the fire could flare up at any moment, the social rebellion could rise at any moment. [[Applause.]] This debate risks being surreal, too far from the very serious reality that our country is experiencing. The effects of the war were devastating, highlighting first of all the wrong choices made by Italy in the past. Energy dependence and strategic sectors have made us weak and fragile. Maybe we all thought that the opposition and the cold war were behind us and in this we were probably wrong, just as we were wrong in thinking that there was a global market for which the surplus of production of certain goods in some areas of the planet could feed our industry and our needs. With regard to war, which is a very delicate subject, on which many reflections can be made, the faults are clear and evident: those of Putin, who wanted to open this conflict. However, we must ask ourselves whether this conflict could be avoided; what role has the European Community played and what role Italy has played, especially what role it wants to play today. We are convinced that it is wrong to throw gasoline on the fire. It is wrong for world leaders to feed this conflict with their own words. [[Applause]] It is necessary to seek a way of peace, because only at the end of this war can we return to normal. The return to the Cold War is certainly not good for Europe and it is not good for Italy. We must be protagonists at European level in the healing of ongoing conflicts and in returning to a normal situation involving the removal of those walls and barriers. A normality that has allowed us to have greater peace on our planet and also the possibility of positive trade for all world economies. This must be our objective, beyond all other considerations. Therefore, we hope that the Government will be clear about the seriousness of the situation and that it will allocate the resources necessary to avoid an economic collapse, which risks being devastating and cannot be overcome by our economy and Italian families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u53	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u54	Mr President, this is a delicate and delicate situation. One thing is certain: this DEF is governed by uncertainty. Therefore, there is no criticism to the Government that it is difficult to draw a time horizon in which to define what strategies to take in the field of economy and finance, because everything is very uncertain, especially with regard to war. Speaking of the war, one cannot but talk about the fact that we came out of a war, which was that of the pandemic. We probably haven't completely come out yet, but in this last period we have managed at least to govern it. As far as war is concerned, however, we are faced with almost the same situations. It is not a lockdown created by the law, but what many companies are experiencing, as Confindustria told us just last week, is a new lockdown, basically. 16% of companies have already slowed down production or have already closed down and another 31% will do so in a few weeks. In essence, more than 50% of companies in the near future will have problems relating not only to war, but also to the grabbing of raw resources and the cost of energy. The energy variable is so important and delicate that the Ministry of Economy and Finance, right within the Document of Economy and Finance, preferred, given the uncertainty, to define three scenarios one more difficult than the other, analyzing exclusively the possible development of the cost of energy. And if we talk about energy and energy costs, we can't help but think about the bills that families and companies are paying in Italy. Let's just talk briefly about families. We have already said that in this House, but we repeat it. The price for the market with greater protection, for those still in this regime of greater protection, is referred to the FTT, the famous Dutch square where gas securities are exchanged. But we know that most of these titles are future titles. These are securities that set a certain price at a certain date and are securities that exchange finance. Finance, that is, those who work on the market not to buy and sell gas, but only to speculate in financial terms. This reference to the TTF price, which is much higher than the import price, we are paying it in our bills. In your opinion, colleagues, is this right? In my humble opinion, that is absolutely not fair. It's wrong! 95 euro the TTF price and 21 euro the import price in 2021. This is also said by the European Commission, in one of the last quarter of 2021. Therefore, since we are in Parliament, since we have an authoritative Government and since there are not so many operators importing gas into Italy and the first three - Eni, Edison and Enel - make more than 75% of the imported gas, in my opinion the Government has the ability to call these operators and, together with them and all the others, decide what can be a guarantee price, a price that is calmed on the gas in Italy so that these distortions do not occur. If we do not intervene on the price of gas, we are in fact in danger of falling into the air. It is okay that it must be a European choice, but if it is not possible at European level, it is right to try to imagine an Italian choice. I know it's difficult, I'm not against Europe, of course. I believe, however, that we must look at all the possible solutions that can be put in place, not least because we know that it is difficult to find a European gas square. Norway, for example, has significantly reduced exports to Italy from 2019 to 2021. Luckily we have the long-term contracts we talked about earlier, which allow us to have gas in Italy, logically also from Russia. Speaking of Russia and gas, one cannot but talk about the ongoing war. In fact, there is a paradox that is really huge that sees Russia continuing to extract and sell gas to Europe, Europe continuing to pay it, as well as Russia continuing to pay the rights to pass gas through Ukraine, paying it precisely to Ukraine. This war is truly paradoxical and the only thing that is certain is that the gas continues to flow through the pipelines; no one attacks the pipelines and everything is fine. This is really crazy. We should focus on this point, trying to find solutions on the price of gas. Let's move on; basically what must we do? Don't leave anyone behind. We spoke before the companies that are closing; first of all there are companies that have commercial activities in progress with Russia and it is they who, along with the others, have continued to export made in Italy to that country too. Well, since we have always filled our mouths in this House with companies exporting Made in Italy, they are, in my opinion, the first ones to be protected in this situation. It is companies and companies that are paying these sanctions before all. It is right to have sanctions against Russia, but we must protect those who are paying for these sanctions in Italy. I do not want to add anything else but the fact that there is probably more to be done on the gas, which had to be done a few years ago. It is not in fact that the ecological transition we invented last year. [[Applause]] We have been talking about it for several years. But when we were talking about replacing coal with something else, we immediately thought about gas because it is the most convenient and economical solution, but it pollutes. A few years ago, instead of thinking about gas, we could have invested much more on renewable energy. Unfortunately, it has not been done. Fortunately - I have to say - the Movimento 5 Stars has thought about it and with measures similar to that of 110 percent [[Applause]] At least we managed to make sure that many apartments will spend less on the bill and pollute less. In my opinion, this is useful in understanding what actions must be taken at least in the medium and long term. It is now acceptable for people to go around looking for gas, but at what price? Do we realize that we are paying it at the market price, at a price that is disproportionate to the real price of gas? We need to start thinking about this, but above all we need to do even more to invest in renewable energy. We can still do this, we are still in time, we have done the 110% measure, we can do other similar measures to replace all the instruments, machinery and boilers that can work with electricity instead of gas. Colleagues, let's do this because we're still in time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u55	The joint debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that has reached the Presidency, on the Report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, the motion for a resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Castellone, Tosato, Bernini, Malpezzi, Faraone, Steger and De Petris. In addition, motions for resolutions nos. 1, presented by Senators Presutto, Rivolta, Damiani, Manca, Conzatti, Steger and Errani, 2, presented by Senators Crucioli, Angrisani, Granato, Dess and Lannotti, and 3, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to say a few words, first of all by thanking the offices that have worked with us for the drafting of this document and by accompanying us here in the Chamber. I would like to say a special thank you to all the Commissions and all their members, because they have examined the part of the DEF of their competence and have provided comments, have advanced criticism and offered constructive ideas. Allow me only, at the end of this journey, to formulate a small thought. We must face this document of economy and finance in its particular delicacy, but the DEFs are not born ex novo when a new legislature is started, but they continue to travel in time, carrying, of course, what has been done in the past, so from time to time, with the start of a legislature, the new political group takes note and makes its choices, which can be good, shared or not. The 18th legislature will pass through history, because it has gone through one of the most difficult times since the post-war period, with a pandemic that has not yet left behind and with a war almost at home, near, with all that has resulted. When we look at the numbers, then, when we read between the lines of this Document, we parliamentarians must also be aware that we have done and done a difficult job, but not only because it is the result of something that comes from the past and that perhaps we have not been able or not wanted to change, but of an extraordinary historical context - I repeat -. These are not words that serve to soften a difficult situation. I humbly say this, without claiming to teach anyone anything and respecting the sensibilities of each of you, but when you return to your territories you will have to explain well to your people - we come from all over Italy - what it means to make the accounts square: it is not only a mathematical calculation, but it is the result of a series of situations that are continuously in progress, today there are and next week there will be no, because there are variables that have not occurred since the post-war period. Only in this way will we all have the opportunity to make this document ours and to be constructive and courageous to the maximum and to encourage this Government to make everything that is in place truly concrete. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u57	I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the Report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, and to indicate what motion for a resolution he intends to accept on the Economic and Financial Document.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u58	Mr President, with regard to the Report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 100, while with regard to the Economic and Financial Document I accept the motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u59	Since the Government has declared that it accepts motion for resolution No 1, signed by Senators Presutto, Rivolta, Damiani, Conzatti, Steger and Errani, the half-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it starts from this moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u62	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the DEF we are debating today is the photograph of a rapidly changing phenomenon. Just yesterday evening the International Monetary Fund further reduced the growth prospects for Italy, thus adding to all the others who in these days say that the development of the economy will not be that envisaged by this Document. However, beyond decimal numbers, the element we all need to be fully aware of is that we have fallen into a context of extreme delicacy. The main snare is inflation: in Italy there has been no such strong growth since 1991 and this is a problem for a country that, as shown by the IRPEF data published these days, has experienced a drop in incomes only partially mitigated by the aid of the pandemic phase. It is clear that the price of energy will not know the return to normal expected by the DEF and that inflation growth will therefore go well beyond the percentages indicated. It is therefore necessary to put in place policies against inflation and measures to protect the purchasing power of households and guarantee access to the credit and liquidity of companies, starting with those which are energetic and the sectors most affected by the outbreak of the war. However, the trend of our ten-year bonds clearly tells us that, under the conditions given, a new budgetary deviation is likely to be burned on the markets by an increase in interest rates, perhaps even by the spread. For this reason, President Draghi is right when he says that we need an intervention from Europe, which must regain the same unity and determination that was demonstrated during the pandemic. The risk that the war will last for a long time, the possibility that sanctions will also extend to the energy sectors, the delicate transition in the sources of supply on which many countries are working, but also the political need for an increasingly cohesive Europe are all elements that tell the member countries to speed up the integration process. It is therefore time not to put flags, but to have the whole picture as the only reference. European growth (the International Monetary Fund has said this very well) is about to stop and for the Italian productive fabric the third recession in ten years would be unsustainable. The approximately 6 billion euros of the so-called aid decree must be put as an obstacle to this spiral and must therefore be spent to extend measures against expensive fuel, to support in the payment of bills the weakest bands, to give breath to the energetic enterprises (which are in real danger of going out of market) and to the building (which risks a serious bottleneck) and to support the local authorities. The other pillar of the labour market, i.e. the filing of the tax wedge for income of up to EUR 35,000, is a sign that the measure should not be lacking, but it is clear to everyone that the amounts of the so-called aid decree are not sufficient at all. But this is where we have to start. What I want to say is that we must equip ourselves to govern a new economic framework (someone called it the war economy), a new system of economic and trade relations that the Russian aggression has determined. We already know what is at stake politically; from the economic and social point of view it is about achieving the objectives of the PNRR, starting with the ecological transition, the green new deal, which is likely to end up buried under the rubble of war. It would be a dramatic prospect and error. It is a theme that we can no longer move forward in time; it is the main mission of our generation, even political, to leave a livable world to our children and future generations. As we have said so many times, only through an extraordinary drive to innovation will Italy be able to achieve standards of growth at European level, a condition that is most necessary for the sustainability of our immense public debt. We need Europe, then. All the great issues of our time, geopolitics, the economy, the protection of the planet, the pandemic, the fight against social inequalities show the inadequacy of individual states and how much can be won with an ever stronger Europe and more unity. Here in Italy we need the highest awareness in the choices and decisions of the coming months, the same that we have shown in the escape from the pandemic. Let us then put ourselves back on that path in the same spirit, the same mentality, the same cohesion at national and European level. It is with this hope that I will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u65	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, DEF 2022 is indeed a map, a document particularly important for keeping the course in a macroeconomic context that presents many risk scenarios and that reads the drama of the war and the trend of the transformation of the market economy into a war economy, and that helps us move Italy among the difficulties in geopolitical repositioning. The world woke up, after an already difficult period for the pandemic crisis, in a once again difficult context to deal with. The readings of the International Monetary Fund on GDP growth show in recent months this drastic repositioning of the whole context: from 5.9 percent six months ago to 4.4 percent and 2.3 percent expected growth in 2022. We are in a very complicated context and this guilty invasion of Russia against Ukraine is a watershed in European history between life and death, between war and peace, between democracy and dictatorship and unfortunately between the market economy and the war economy. This shock must be managed from a democratic, military and economic point of view. Italy Viva immediately read this as a problem to be addressed to solve it: we immediately proposed a de-escalation managed with a diplomatic dynamic and a political dynamic. Already in 2014, when it was invaded and then annexed Crimea, we proposed for Donbass and Crimea the same autonomous model that we live: I am thirty and I know that autonomous model. It is a model that also works where there are people who fought on different war fronts, who have different cultures and languages; you can live in peace. Today that solution is no longer viable, but it will certainly be resumed in the diplomatic phase. Today we must certainly stop the brutality of civilians and we must stop the violence against women and children that Vice Prime Minister Stefanishyna told us a few days ago. This war is an economic watershed and our financial and economic document data say so: we had a significant rebound of 6.6 percent on the decline in GDP and 9 percent recorded in 2020, and we still benefit from a drag effect of 2.3 percentage points on 2022. But already since the beginning of 2022, many indicators have begun to have a negative intonation before 24 February, even before the outbreak of the war, because of the increase in consumer prices; 2021 only on energy and 2022 also on food. We have a consumer inflation that from -0.2% of 2020 (so a negative inflation) has moved to 1.9 and 6.7 in March 2022, an action that has never been so high since 1921. Therefore, the inflation variable is to be kept strongly under control: for 2022 it is expected to be 5,3 and then to fall from 2023, but it will fall - this is inevitable - only if we can manage the factors that determine it, starting from the energy ones. On the trend picture, it should be noted that GDP fell by 1.8 points: from 4.7 trend in the Update Note to DEF up to 2.9. Again, this depends on the rise in energy goods, the contraction in international trade, interest rates and the effect of the sanctions we have rightly imposed on Russia. Even more worrying, however, are the risk scenarios that the DEF declines, once again, strongly related to energy issues: if prices continue to be so high, our trend GDP will be of 1.9 and not of 2.9, if in addition to an increase in prices we will also have supply problems and diversification of supply we could have a reduction in trend GDP of more than two points, which would absorb almost completely the drag effect from 2021, equal to 2.3. Therefore, the energy issue is also central to fiscal policies and macroeconomic policies. The policy framework is based on the positive results of net debt, the one recorded in the trend, which gives us that 0.5% of budgetary space in order to be able to make a new intervention immediately. There is a resolution to be voted on, a resolution for the sole modification of the path of return of the structural balance towards the medium-term objective. It should be stressed that Italy Viva will vote in favour of this resolution; we know that the objective of net debt is also important in view of the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact and is important in order to implement the next measure. We share the measures that the Government has on the agenda for the next measure, starting from the compensation of the cost of public works, to the reduction of the cost of fuels, to the interventions in favor of the enterprises hit by sanctions, to the implementation of the new temporary framework on the side of the moratorium and the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. Firstly, we share our support for the integration and reception of war refugees from Ukraine, just as we share - as we say as a political point - the effective, efficient and timely implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We believe that this is the only way to meet the GDP targets set out in the policy framework of 3% and 1%. The development of GDP is also very important on the front of the programmatic path of the return of the debt-to-GDP ratio. In this respect, we must note that our debt is 147 percent, one of the highest in the world. That is precisely why in the majority resolution we called for and supported the Government to work on the European front to change the governance and rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, so that it becomes pro-growth and capable of anti-cyclical measures. Even the Parliamentary Bureau, in validating the policy framework and also, for the first time, the trend framework, points out to us that it is not obvious and there is a probability that the return path of the debt-to-GDP ratio will not respect what has been said in the deficit, if we do not keep under control the inflation rate and real growth. The document of economy and finance presents clear strategies and this is very appreciable, but the risk scenarios on all horizons of forecast are particularly risky and insidious. The first of all is that of the conflict: if the conflict persisted, in addition to new sanctions, we would have restrictions on supplies. A priority for Italy, which should have been such years ago, is therefore to reposition itself on the front of independence in supplies, not only energy. And that is why, in full awareness of the difficulties of the macroeconomic context and not only, Italy Viva expresses maximum support to the Government, with conviction, in Italy's strategy of repositioning in the geopolitical framework. And here too we reiterate our 'yes'. Surely it is a "yes" convinced of the energy strategies needed, against which we have no ideological foreclosure; it is necessary to start saying "yes," over the years we have said too many "no" and the consequences are seen. "Yes' to the timely completion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; "yes' to the strengthening of national and European supply chains of products that will meet the greatest supply bottlenecks; "yes" and full support to the Government for European work on the Stability and Growth Pact front, on the new energy recovery front and on the roof front at energy prices. Finally, our most convinced "yes" is that of the political and diplomatic resolution of the conflict that Russia wanted against Ukraine and against democracy. Italy must follow this path, which is a narrow path, without slipping on an inclined plane. That is why the Government has all our seriousness and all our support at its disposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u68	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say at once that I agree with my colleague in the Budget Committee of the League, who preceded me, when he said that this DEF is too optimistic and does not actually look at the picture we have at the moment: a pandemic that is still going on and a war at the gates of Europe. Why do I say that, ma'am? Because the data contained in this document of economy and finance deviate significantly from reality. As well as saying the League and Brothers of Italy, the Parliamentary Budget Office, which reported in black and white that this DEF, which is based on the data of mid-March, does not take account of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, believing that it would end in a very short time. The social partners, in all the hearings we have held these days, have also judged this document very far from reality and with far too optimistic data. The estimates of this document speak of a GDP growth of 2.9 percent; other institutions, such as Confindustria, which are certainly not of our political side, even foresee much smaller figures, which are close to 2%. There is no reason to doubt this analysis and not to start to fear the spectre of recession. We do not like to say "we said it" because it is not a good thing, but our leader Giorgia Meloni always said that the growth of 2021 was the result of a physiological rebound, clearly due to a comparison with the year 2020, which was the hardest of the pandemic that our country suffered. Today we can say that we were right, because in the first three months of 2022 Banca d'Italia tells us that we have already lost half a point of GDP, a sign that the policies put in place in recent years by the Governments Count I, Count II and Dragons have served little and have been in some way frustrated by everything that has happened not only at the time when the conflict between Russia and Ukraine broke out, but also in the previous months (I refer to the dear bills, the dear energy and the dear raw materials). Clearly they have also been frustrated by the consequences of the conflict that has just broken out. You see, President, the starting point for this DEF was certainly not the best. The government put him in black and white, in particular through the hearing of Minister Franco a few days ago, always on the DEF. Therefore, in the light of developments related to the ongoing conflict, the growth prospects are very weak compared to what was said and thought at the beginning of 2022. Clearly this has been heavily affected, as I said earlier, by the rise in raw material prices, which has led to inflation splashing at almost 7%, and this figure could also worsen even further, if Russia had to come to a total blockade of natural gas inflows. So if we do not solve the issue of commodity increases, which is the real problem that we have today in Italy, and therefore, consequently, the increase in inflation, the purchasing power of families will be reduced, creating additional pockets of poverty. So this is the real issue which has not yet been dealt with in the present document. The reality, in short, is that the present document lacks a political vision and an overall view of the country system. We are in a difficult socio-economic context, in which the pandemic emergency, as I said earlier, has been accompanied by these stratospheric increases in fuel, energy and raw materials, as well as, last but not least, the ongoing conflict. The Brothers of Italy Group therefore strongly calls for a change from the recent past. We do not talk about the budgetary deviation, because we know that it is a very delicate, very particular and very difficult deviation, because it will produce additional debt, but today it is inevitable that there will be another one that can bring lifeblood to the system of Italian companies and families. The 10 billion euros released from the document of economy and finance under consideration are already committed, because five have already been committed with the decree-law that we will approve tomorrow in this House and five will commit them with the next decree-law, which will in some way be issued by the government in the coming days. The difference is that we commit EUR 10 billion and Germany is allocating EUR 100 billion to give aid to its businesses, so that is 10% of what Germany allocates. It will therefore be necessary to release additional resources in deficit, it is inevitable. So, in addition to the deviation, we will need Europe's intervention and this will be very important for us. Mr President, we cannot therefore reason as we are doing, because on the one hand we are talking about expensive fuel with a cover until the first days of May and on the system of bills we have reasoned quarterly. We need a much broader, broader political vision, because it must structurally attack the problems we have in Italy today. We therefore need a new governance of Europe and we need to review the rules of the game, the rules of engagement, because they are too opaque and too complex. It must therefore be confirmed, because it is a very important fact, the speech on the safeguard clauses and therefore on the Stability and Growth Pact, which is now at its standstill in 2022. We must make an effort and the authority of President Draghi must also serve to enable Europe to make this choice and to extend this period of time, because it will be very important. Mr President, this commitment to go beyond 2022 will not be enough either, because we hope that we will arrive at 2026, in order to free up the budgets of the State administration, but also of the local authorities. As I said, this is not all we need, but we need to go beyond this objective, because we need to reduce the levels of debt, not through the increase in taxes, as the government wants to do, with regard to the reform of the land register, or the cut in social expenditure, but by maintaining control of public expenditure: this will be a matter of fundamental importance. I am referring to that famous spending review that has disappeared from the political agenda of successive governments in recent years, to magically reappear in this DEF. We therefore take note of this and hope that, from now on, this type of instrument will be central to the policies of the Government. In addition to talking about this new governance of Europe, there are the increases that weigh heavily on Italian families: it is even thought that there is an average of 2,000 euros per family. For Italian companies it is estimated an increase of 188 billion euros for the purchase of goods or services. All this could lead to a further contraction of national GDP; therefore, the embargo on Russian gas would be a coup d' grace, as I said, for our economy, and this DEF says it clearly: the sanctions already imposed on Russia, albeit just, weigh heavily on our economy. On this we ask President Draghi to exercise all the authority he enjoys in the European institutions to ask for new support that is not in debt, but compensate for the losses that countries are suffering indirectly from sanctions. In the same way, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan must also be revised, which must necessarily change its orientation and be directed towards a plan that allows Italy to acquire its energy independence. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I have no other time, but I would like to say to President Draghi in particular that the theme is not to choose between peace and the heated air conditioners and from which we would have obviously expected other kinds of considerations; the theme is to give the Italians the opportunity to choose between a government that lives in the day and one that has a political vision of the future of this country. [[Applause]] For this reason, Brothers of Italy will abstain on the motion for a resolution on the deviation and instead vote against motion for a resolution No 1 on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u71	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, we are discussing this DEF at a stage marked by deep concern. We are concerned about what is happening in the world, we are shocked by Russia's horrible war of aggression against Ukraine, a war that produces a load of dead, wounded, refugees and rubble that we have not seen for decades. War concerns us closely; it is a factor that is profoundly changing geopolitical and geoeconomic balances. There is a global challenge between democracy and authoritarian regimes, the outcome of which is not obvious, partly because it is an ongoing challenge within liberal democracies. We are concerned about the economic and social consequences of the war, which are being dumped in real time on our country, starting with those who are worse. The economy is slowing down strongly; inflation and uncertainty hold back consumption and block business investment plans. Six months ago the government predicted a growth of 4.7%; with the DEF we fell to 2.9; the International Monetary Fund is even more pessimistic and provides for 2.3 percent. Inflation affects the Italians unequally, because it is mainly linked to energy and food and these items of expenditure weigh more heavily on the budgets of the most fragile families; the dear energy is increasing inequalities and widening the scissors between those who are better and those who have to choose whether to pay the bills or to do the shopping. The Government, President, has done important things in recent months: it has allocated over 15 billion euros for 2022, financing measures for families, businesses and territorial authorities. It is an important figure in absolute value, but it is only a fraction of the energy stagata that has come down on our country and it is a figure that finances measures that almost all expire at the end of June, while the crisis will hardly end by the middle of the year. With the DEF the Government has decided to use the margin made available by the best performance of the public accounts and has announced a new economic measure: it is a decision that we share, but with the awareness that hardly the 6 billion of the new decree-law will be sufficient to face all the open nodes. The truth is that further interventions and new resources will be indispensable; the only extension for a further quarter of the current measures is worth more than 8 billion. We can find additional resources by strengthening the taxation of extra-profits; we must also push for a reprogramming of European funds, as was done during the Covid emergency. The budgetary deviation remains an extreme ratio, because we do not escape the criticalities that we face from the point of view of the public accounts and the importance of a Community umbrella; the deviation, however, cannot and must not be a taboo, if the alternative becomes the third recession in ten years. Mr President, in the face of this crisis we need a change of pace, first of all on the part of the European Union, which must deal with it with the same determination and foresight that it has put in place against Covid. We have shared and supported the Government's proposals, such as the European gas-price ceiling or a different mechanism for the price of electricity. The crisis requires Europe to have a new energy strategy, an extraordinary energy fund (as referred to in the motion for a resolution), a diversification of supplies and a strategy to escape from fossil fuels, because, like today, decarbonisation has gone hand in hand with freedom from dependence on Russian gas and with the reduction of energy costs for consumers. We must also change step in Italy, Mr President; we need to update our energy transition strategy, the integrated national energy and climate plan, not to slow down the transition, but to speed it up, as Germany has decided to do, which has anticipated the 100% renewables target to 2035. Today, after Germany, we are the European country most dependent on Russian gas supplies. It is an unsustainable politically, as well as economically, and that is why we strongly support the actions put in place by the Government to diversify the supplier countries, to increase national gas production, to deburocraticize the process for renewables. We also call on the Government to take far-reaching action in terms of efficiency and energy saving. After the superbonus, we need a medium-term strategy for the energy redevelopment of buildings and we must also help companies to make themselves efficient and to self-produce energy. Mr President, defending the purchasing power of wages, salaries and incomes is a crucial point for the country's social standing. It is necessary to extend the measures which expire in June at least for another quarter. The main route, however, I believe is a further step: an extraordinary cut in social security contributions, which increases the incomes of employees and self-employed workers, on the model of what the German Government has decided by granting an allowance for high energy. We ask the government to look to Europe also for other types of interventions: for excise duties on petrol and diesel, but also to reduce the costs of public transport and to help the families that live in rent, those that more than others risk paying for the crisis and inflation. Wage is a long-standing issue in this country, but the crisis is worsening it. We must avoid a wage-price spiral, that is right, but we must also prevent millions of workers from slipping under poverty. Then chosen as the stabilization of the decontribution decided for this year, the detaxation of contractual renewals and a law on fair pay must enter the political agenda of the government in the coming months. There is also a need for a change of pace for companies, from the extension of tax credits to measures to ensure liquidity, from aid for sectors most affected by sanctions to the release of loans for building bonuses. Mr President, the energy costs for Italian companies were already higher than the rest of Europe, now the situation has become unsustainable. Confindustria lets us know that one in six companies blocked or slowed down production due to higher energy costs. Emerging interventions are needed, but also structural measures to reduce the burden of improper bills and to ensure long-term supplies of gas and electricity at calm prices, starting with energy companies. Finally, the territorial authorities and the third sector are other areas in distress. Local authorities and regions need additional resources to cope with expensive energy, but also with the refugee emergency and the extra health costs of Covid. The third sector calls for and deserves attention. We remember them during the emergency; they deserve from the policy concrete answers, the implementation of reforms that have been waiting for years and non-punitive tax regulations. [[Applause]] This is the best way we can help them. The PNRR is an even more decisive variable in this economic situation. The PD has put the issue of the timing and remodulation of some content and the question of expensive materials, which is likely to represent a boulder for the implementation of the Plan. It is clear, however, that our efforts today must first and foremost speed up the grounding of projects and reforms. Reforms are Parliament's primary responsibility and I am thinking of tax delegation, competition law and justice reform. On these issues the Government and the majority have been confronted for a long time, for months and months, and the texts have been modified and improved. Now it's time to decide. [[Applause.]] The time has come when everyone must lay down the electoral flags and assume their responsibilities in front of the country. This is the underlying point - and I have concluded - in front of everything that is happening around us. A little over a year ago, Mr President, as a Democratic Party we chose to respond positively to President Mattarella's appeal and voted for confidence in the Dragon Government, which we reaffirm. In these months the Government has achieved important results, from the vaccination campaign to the revival of the economy, which ended 2021 with an extraordinary result. The situation we are facing, however, calls on all of us to make a qualitative leap. The last thing Italians expect from politics is a very long and quarrelsome election campaign. Italy needs a government that governs, an Executive capable of leading the country with authority in one of the most difficult phases of recent history. The Democratic Party is there and will play its full part, in the name of the country's general interest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u74	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, thank you to the rapporteurs. Our Mixed-Liberary and Equal-Ecosolidal Group will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 and in favour of the report on the deviation from policy objectives. The DEF is in a very serious situation, in some respects new. The Bank of Italy and the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget have validated the DEF, stressing that the forecasts of the Document are placed in a vision of the rapid conclusion of the conflict in Ukraine. Already this must make us think and we must worry. In this regard, subject to the opinion we have given on the aggression of Ukraine by Russia, let me say that I feel a weakness of Europe in relation to what remains the priority for me, namely a diplomatic initiative. We cannot leave Ukraine and Putin the bet that Europe has to make with regard to the recovery, the revival and the construction of a diplomatic solution. I feel and fear - I have to say - something that concerns me very much, that is, a sort of resignation to face the current situation. The Pope speaks of peace, but it is difficult to pronounce the word "peace" in this place as well, and this concerns me, not only with reference to the tragedy of civilians, children, refugees and victims of the conflict, but also with regard to the other fact that some colleagues have pointed out: I am referring to the fact that this situation has very serious consequences on the geopolitical and economic structure of the world, which has already changed. What I do not see and do not understand, I hope because of my ignorance, my limitations and my shortcomings, is what direction we are taking. As the world will be in five years, I don't understand it and I don't think the solution can be to re-propose a unipolar vision of the world. The world will never be readable again through a unipolar vision. As many analysts, first of all in the United States, rightly point out, this means thinking of something new compared to the globalization we have experienced. From this point of view, the problem is where Europe is located and where Italy is located. Better: the problem is where Europe is located and where Italy, which, more than any other European country, today is paying a very high price to this situation. Can we talk about this? I don't just think we can, but we need to talk about it. The narration that it is not possible to say words other than those of the single thought about war and confrontation between democracy and authoritarian situations is something that should question and worry us. From this point of view, many colleagues have said - and I agree with that - that we are facing something new, structural. A few months ago, just a few months ago, we were told, if you remember, that energy increases would be resolved by April. It was before the war in Ukraine, but even then it seemed to me a daring prediction. The issue of energy has rightly put it, in my opinion, Mr Pesco. He proposes a great question, that of the relationship between finance, financialization of the economy and economy and production: because the price of gas is made through finance, not at production costs and much less on the basis of a reasoning on the development of the economy. From this point of view, we should be more aware. Some Members have said this, and last but not least Mr Misiani from the Democratic Party said so in his speech. The forecasts are critical, very critical: at 2.3% there is GDP growth according to the International Monetary Fund, at 1.9 according to the Confindustria study centre, as well as according to that of Prometeia. I mean, the data is worrying. What is more worrying, on which I ask myself, is whether there is a clear dynamic, very hard, between the economic crisis, the problem of the competitiveness of companies because of the costs of raw materials and energy and the social crisis. Let me say this with a joke: the problem is not air conditioning, but that there are families who risk having to decide whether to pay the bill or to do the shopping. Is that clear? [[Applause]] This is a major problem. Let's be careful, I say it with an absolutely constructive spirit and without any controversy: sometimes, the representation between us does not correspond to the real and social dynamics of the country. Let us be careful, because if this scissors widens, the problem of democracy and the necessary reforms, which we know to be very serious, becomes even more difficult and complex. We must give the idea that we feel deeply on our skin and in our work the problem of the social crisis that hatches under the ashes of this country. It is then time to make choices and speed up, as Senator Misiani rightly said. The government has done important, positive and useful things, but we know that inequalities are growing and that the problem is that what was the middle class is slipping more and more towards poverty. We need to make political choices of income and the first problem in income policy is to avoid putting inflation on wages, which will not be 6 or 5.9 percent, but will travel above 7, 8 and 9 percent. The de-taxation is fine: let's choose this road. Of course, energy must also be used to count the renewal of contracts: otherwise, those citizens and those workers will feel in difficulty. Starting quickly with the conclusions, after income policy, the second strategic point is the policy of transition. On this point we must understand: we must not slow down the transition, we take the plan of Confindustria on renewable energies and bring it to concreteness, because it is the only way, as Germany and other countries have done and are doing. Finally, there is the policy of reform of welfare, health and social system: reforms, not bonuses, because the latter do not produce a resolution effect of the social emergency. We need serious policies. Politics today has different positions and this is legitimate, but on some of these points or we parliamentarians, we forces of majority government, on it we do our part or on this, not on propaganda, the citizens will judge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u77	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, I would like to give special thanks to the rapporteurs for a difficult measure. I also experienced this moment of difficulty a few weeks ago, when I was the rapporteur of the so-called decree-law support-b, which, being a measure of January, was finally to be a measure of exit from the pandemic and instead turned into something different, because the effects of the war that was beginning were unfortunately devastating. Today in this House we all imagined that we would approve a DEF that is very different from what we are approving today, a DEF that is unfortunately conditioned by this unexpected variable, but above all unacceptable for our values of civil coexistence, as is precisely the conflict between Russia and Ukraine at the gates of our Europe. We therefore had great expectations: after two years of Covid, we finally saw the light at the end of the tunnel, also thanks to the work that we have all done together in Parliament over the years, but also thanks to the help of science, fast in identifying the vaccine that has finally given effect on the infections, but above all on the harmful effects of the virus. Unfortunately, on the international scene there has been an unrepeatable event, which today forces us to review the economic plans of the short and medium term. We are still here today, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, talking about the war economy. Let's remember that until a few months ago we talked about the economy of war referring to the pandemic and all together we fought today to defend a primary good like that of our health, the health of the Italians. [[Applause]] On the other hand, we are now experiencing a war that annihilates the lives and fundamental rights of individuals, on whom we have built our civilization, Europe precisely, guaranteeing seventy years of peace. All this is unacceptable, but it must be tackled and overcome precisely in order to resume the path of economic growth. During the hearings held on the Economic and Financial Document, the Bank of Italy told us that the war in Ukraine is a factor of exceptional uncertainty in an economic framework that was already choked, at this particular moment, for example by inflation. Above all, it is Europe that suffers, not only because of the neighbourhood relations we have with both Russia and Ukraine, but above all because of trade relations and particularly with regard to energy supplies. In this particular moment, unfortunately, the confidence of the Italians also decreases, which are seen to arrive today of the bills that have unacceptable costs and reduces the confidence of the enterprises. For a year the government, the majority and the opposition together in Parliament have worked to bring those measures to the House in support of families, businesses and professionals, so today was the right time to really look at a better future perspective, to reap the fruits of a commitment that has seen us as a majority in this Government. Once again, instead, we are forced to stop, we have to slow down our race and then review - unfortunately worse - the growth estimates that we had seen only a few months ago approving NADEF. Let's analyze some data written today in this document of economy and finance, especially thinking of the 10 billion made available and that we free as financial spaces. As always - I tell the Government - with consistency Forza Italia asks to continue along the path of growth policies that we have started, giving oxygen back to those sectors that have been hit by the pandemic before and by the war today. [[Applause]] We still ask the government to immediately use all available resources to give oxygen to the sectors that have been affected at this particular time. The estimate of GDP is reduced to 3.1 percent compared to 4.7 percent, the deficit-GDP ratio to 5.6, the debt-to-GDP ratio is 147 percent, so slow down the rebound we had hoped for, that 6.2% compared to 8.9 percent of the fall in GDP we had in 2020. The expectations are therefore very cautious and I hope that there will be no immediate increase in the pandemic and there will be a positive effect on the war and not a boomerang effect on the sanctions that have been imposed anyway. It is therefore an absolutely prudential framework. However, despite this not exactly favourable picture, I believe it is necessary to continue with expansive maneuvers for our country in the next year and in the following ones. [[Applause]] I say this to the Government at the moment: we must use all the instruments it considers necessary and absolutely appropriate at such a particular time. However, the recovery is expected because for the coming years 2023-2025, thanks to investments and especially European funds, growth is expected. Attention must be paid to the alarming figure of unemployment, which is a little too high, but a stimulus today to combat unemployment and promote business and work could come from cutting the tax wedge, as Confindustria has also asked us these days. Of course, we need resources and that is why the government must commit itself to finding the necessary and available funds on all fronts. Only by feeding domestic demand can we make our gross domestic product grow again. Another sensitive and important issue is that of taxes, which must not increase. I say this to Professor Monti: it would only be enough not to increase taxes. It is necessary to simplify and not tighten the tax pressure and Forza Italia has long told the Government. [[Applause]] The DEF also presents critical issues that we stress, starting with the reduction of health expenditure. The pandemic certainly exposed the problems of the health system. We believe that we must continue to invest in health, as well as in education, given that investment in this area is also falling. We are committed here, in Parliament, to correcting these distortions. As has already been said in the preamble, we all imagined a different moment today, for which the Government, the Ministers, the majorities and all of us have worked over the past year. However, it must be stressed that the DEF keeps the bar straight towards support and growth. The decree of 5 billion euros is needed immediately; energy and resources are needed immediately, especially in order to calculate the bills of companies and Italians. Forza Italia reaffirms its support and support to families and businesses. We need resources and, if they are European, we must welcome them. That is why - and I say this to the Government and Parliament - we are firmly saying no to the increase in taxes and yes today to aid to families, businesses and professionals with instruments such as mortgage moratories, c-breaking and the reduction of the tax wedge. [[Applause]] On these proposals, which are in favour of the interests of Italians, you will always find us available. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u80	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for this complex measure. I would also like to thank the Government for the help it has given us by coordinating the drafting of the majority resolution, in full respect of Parliament's voice. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the majority for the sensitivity with which they have been able to cooperate in finding a fall point that respects the physiognomy of the individual groups, the role of Parliament's direction and also the inexorable logic of the data that, as many have pointed out, shows us a rapidly evolving reality (not unexpected, but unfortunately not favourable). In principle, if not all, much divides us in this majority: from the most remote history, which sees us children of ideological matrixes often very distant, to the most recent current, in which, if we wanted, we could draw reasons for bitter political contention or for insane personal resentment. But while we were aware that not everyone would understand this choice of ours, we decided to look not at what divided us, but at what united us: love for our country. Love that everyone is free to interpret in his own way, but that in fact has proved to be a strong enough glue to ensure the rapid achievement of a political synthesis. Our vote is therefore strongly in favour for at least two reasons: firstly, because we see in the motion for a resolution issues on which we have committed ourselves, together with our other colleagues in the majority, during this year of government. Let me mention a few: the commitment to promote the use of deflated instruments of tax litigation and also to promote a finally orderly and rational management of the so-called tax warehouse. These are two issues on which an agreement had been reached with the Bagnai-Fenu resolution, Document XXIV No 53 approved in the Finance Committee on 12 October. I also mention the interventions to facilitate the superbonus 110%, avoiding penalising single-family homes (the ones that a certain press not close to the reality of the country and in particular its internal areas has renamed "cottages"), and facilitating through their splitting the transfer of credits, in full respect of legality, but without hindering the recovery; a topic, also this, the subject of innumerable amendments tabled by my Group also on measures being examined. I also mention the theme of home therapies, subject of the agenda G2 (text 2), first signed by Senators Romeo and Castellone, approved by this Assembly on April 8, 2021. An increasingly topical theme as the unfolding of the evidence draws the various experts or self-evident ones towards the need to face the pandemic with a more articulated approach, as always demanded by the party to which I belong. Or I would like to recall the issue of the cost of raw materials, on which we have spoken a certain advance, by depositing on 27 May last motion 1-00378, which perhaps deserved more timely attention from the Government; and of course, more than all others, the commitment that the Government accepts to intervene to change the so-called rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, which are not rules, because their application is largely discretionary, as the facts have shown, and they are not of stability and growth, because it is necessary to suspend them when stability and growth are most needed. This is an issue that we believe we have raised in times that are not suspicious. I could add more, but I do not make this list to plant flags - a phrase dear to some of us - because that is not the spirit. On the contrary, I do so in order to stress with gratitude the welcome and support that colleagues from other parties have given to proposals that we have had the opportunity to make, because we have decided to be on board, and that they have had the intelligence to accept, because they have understood that they were made in a constructive spirit and not of prevarication. The second important issue which supports our vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, perhaps the most important one, is the fact that it opens up the possibility of a timely appeal, if circumstances require it (the data from the International Monetary Fund indicate that they are already requesting it), to the instrument of budgetary deviation. This is to avoid the mistake made at the beginning of another crisis, the pandemic one, when a government carrying different competences - let's put it this way - seriously underestimated the extent of the necessary intervention, causing a degradation, then difficult to recover, of the situation. Remember that the initial 3.7 billion went to over 100 billion resources needed to deal with the problem that the pandemic had created. Of course, with all this, the DEF will also be perfectible; moreover, as I have just pointed out, it contains in itself the seeds of its own improvement. This government will be perfectible, the majority who support it will be perfectible and of course, possibly and with difficulty, it is perfectible who speaks to you. However, I would like to repeat, since it was not enough to say so, that I find it funny - I have no other terms, ladies and gentlemen - that here we receive lessons of austerity and financial hygiene from those who, at the end of 2011, found this country with a public debt of 119 percent of GDP and handed it over to its successor with a debt of 132%. Just to be clear, in the post-war period only the pandemic was able to do worse and I find it hilarious that it still insists on the story of future generations damaged by the prodigality of unconscious parents, of spending parliaments. These future generations should repay the debt, as if the State were a commercial exercise whose business has a deadline, which must be paid to creditors with any remaining active mass; only that it does not work that way, there is no date - or at least I have no confidence - in which the Italian State must bring down the clr. The public debt is supported as long as the country is able to honour interest payments and refinance the amounts due, that is, as long as the country grows. A growing country does not create problems for future generations, while a country that practices the rigor so dear to the heirs of a failed season - and therefore failed - of problems creates it. And these problems are not the need to repay the debt; I want to tell the millennials that they might come across in my speech that no one will ever knock on their door to ask for the refund of 2,000 billion cash: this will not happen. The problems that create rigour are the need to accept increasingly precarious working conditions, to have to emigrate, not to have adequate education and not to have a health system that meets the challenges of globalisation, because the globalisation of challenges poses them and we are now fully aware of them. Since we are talking about globalisation, then a globalization whose crisis confirms so many of our intuitions, let me say, to avoid misunderstandings, that it is not true that we have all mishandled globalisation. Globalisation, if it has been mismanaged, has been mismanaged by those who could manage it, because it was in power, certainly not by those who were in opposition. It has been mismanaged by those who have been led by easy enthusiasms, by the empty and demagogic words of order that it pronounced to attract an easy consensus; not by those who have taken on themselves the political and human cost of expressing a critical voice. A little too easy to socialize now the losses of globalization, after having tried, with greater or lesser success, to privatise its profits; as well as, frankly, it is a little too easy to accuse, in a more or less veiled way, of a lack of seriousness a majority that instead - will be an interested opinion my - is proving in this, as on other occasions, to know how to work constructively towards the achievement of common objectives. In a spirit of support for this joint effort, I therefore vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action for majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u83	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Madam President, senators and senators, representatives of the Government, we are dealing with the Economic and Financial Document, which is the main instrument of economic planning and public finance for the year 2022 and for the coming years. We are at a difficult time for Italy, Europe and the whole world. The pandemic has not stopped biting and making its effects felt, both economically and healthily. We have lost so many lives, but not only; even patients with other pathologies could not have the assistance they would have received in normal times. For two months, the war in Ukraine has broken out, just a stone's throw from our home, and this represents a human tragedy, like all wars, but also a genuine and further economic tragedy for so many European citizens and the world. One of the consequences was the explosion in the prices of energy products, which put millions of Italians and Europeans in difficulty. There are so many citizens who have seen monstrous bills coming, simply unsustainable. But also the sanctions have damaged our companies and consequently many Italians: there are many companies, not only those energetic ones, that is those that need so much electricity or gas to work, but also a simple bar or a restaurant. Well, all these economic operators have bills that they simply can't pay. The problem is not only of those who have this difficulty, but of all of us, because they are jobs that can be lost, because it is an economy that is recovering, ours, and that cannot slow down; they are families that cannot reach the end of the month. [[Applause]] The insane increase in raw materials is putting companies in difficulty and all this brings with it the increase in inflation, a phenomenon that we have not been used to for a few years. They are huge problems, but we of the Movimento 5 Stars have the strength and courage to propose new and different measures, that help the country and the many Italians who are in difficulty to get out of it. We are a community and we must continue to reason as such and behave in this way, because no one must remain behind. We therefore need courage and determination. Since the beginning of this new crisis, we have proposed a recovery energy plan, a European plan that had as its horizon to make us independent of fossil sources and supplies from abroad. We must produce energy from renewable sources, using what we have: the sun, the wind, water, geothermal energy. We must do this now, we must speed up this reconversion. We at Movimento 5 Stars said so many years ago, but we were practically unheard, while others went to make deals in Russia to buy gas, thinking of making a deal. Unfortunately, the facts are right now, but we are not the only ones who say this about Movimento 5 Stars and not just the logic. This is what the Vice President of the European Commission, Timmermans, who said a few weeks ago that if we had invested in renewables a few years ago, we would not be in the current situation. Very great mistakes have been made in this area, but what would really be unacceptable and inconceivable is to make the same mistake again: to continue short-sighted policies and without a future. On the other hand, we must invest heavily to produce renewable energy and retrain our buildings, which must consume much less. To achieve this, a European plan is needed on the basis of a recovery fund, which the Conte Government obtained in 2020. In Italy, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, we have started to do so for two years already, thanks to the superbonus of 110 percent before and to the energy communities then, which represent two real successes, which are copying us (and of this we are very happy). We must also support those who produce: businesses and artisans. We must intervene with refreshments - or with support - to companies that do not yet recover from the losses they suffered during the pandemic. [[Brusio]] I would ask you, Mr President, to be able to speak in peace, if possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u84	I would very much like to put an end to this buzz, which does not even honour the importance of this measure. Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u85	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Thank you, President. I was saying that there are companies that still do not recover from the losses they suffered during the pandemic and to which today are added the companies that have been directly damaged by the outbreak of the war and by the sanctions to Russia and all those who are paying a huge price to the increase of energy products and raw materials. Meeting companies with regard to the increase in raw materials also helps those companies that participate in PNRR procurement and are currently penalised by the increase in materials. If we did not intervene immediately, we would vanish the effects of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which would be self-injury for the Italy system. In order to do all this, Mr President, we need resources, which must come from an increase in the levy on the extra profits of energy companies, which - I repeat - have had colossal gains over the last few months. They must also come from a budgetary deviation, which is not a taboo and cannot be a taboo, as it was not in 2020, when we approved deviations of 130 billion and the results proved right the following year, i.e. 2021. In 2021 we recorded a record increase in GDP of 6,6%, which was greater than the increase in countries close to us, such as France and Germany, and higher than the increase in average world GDP. We saved so many jobs, businesses and artisans, and all in all, this intervention cost us less than if we had not intervened and had applied the old theories of austerity or financial and economic Darwinism. We have been saying this for months and we are saying it again today: delaying the interventions increases the cost, because situations are getting worse. The deviation must be proportionate to the difficult situation we are experiencing: it cannot be crumbs. I would like to make a proper mention of the expenditure on public education, which has been a great deal talked about these days. They must not be reduced, but the resources must be guaranteed for a public school and university, which will train our boys and our girls to face and compete best in the difficult challenges of the future. [[Applause]] There is also the problem of taxes: on the one hand there is the need to tax contractual increases, precisely in order to meet the needs of workers at this dramatic time, and on the other there is the general theme of a tax burden that must be sustainable for citizens and businesses, that does not hinder development, but that at the same time provides the country with resources for sustainable and fair development. Then there is the question of who has been unable to pay taxes in the past few years, even though they have filed a regular tax report. We in the Movimento 5 Stars have been proposing two years to this side, with parliamentary acts in the form of amendments to every economic measure, a c-break, which is not a pardon - I want to reiterate it loudly - because the taxpayer would pay the entire taxes he owes to the State and which he has not managed to pay because of economic difficulties, which we, as a country system, have carried since 2008. I would like to remind you that we are still the only European country that has not returned to its GDP levels before the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis. The discount that would provide for the c-break, according to our hypothesis, would therefore relate only to sanctions and interests. So we ask ourselves: if not now when? If we don't do it at a dramatic time like this, when we have a war and a pandemic, will you explain to me when to make such a provision? [[Applause]] There are no references to increases in military expenditure in the DEF in our examination and we are particularly pleased with that. We of the Movimento 5 Stars have said it in every way: it is not the time to increase in a mad and sudden way the expenses for the defense. Increasing them by EUR 12 or 14 billion in a year and a half, when there are millions of citizens who do not put the plate at the table and businesses are in difficulty, it is simply unacceptable! [[Applause]] We are proud to have carried this position forward, initially on our own, but then the others came after us and we are really happy about it. The DEF has expansive policies as its horizon in our examination. We support it since 2018: the country needs expansive policies, so that it becomes fairer, fairer, more supportive and stimulates to do business, to create wealth and to redistribute it in a just way. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u88	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, do you explain this to the citizens who, in these years of difficulty, the governments have paid out more than EUR 9 billion to Benetton to take back our motorways and EUR 1 billion for the reliefs caused by the emergency Covid? Do you explain it to the closing companies and the workers who stay at home? To multinational companies you give tax agreements to lick the mustache, while to small Italian companies you send the debitorial charts, with all the slopes and the back deadlines. The association MIO Italia (Movement of hospitality companies) has been inviting the Government for months and the majority to reflect on what is happening in the catering and hospitality sector, including: from rents to the relationship with credit, from the lacked refreshments to taxation. The government looks at the destruction of an essential sector. You could have reduced VAT to 5% for the whole hotel, restaurant and bar sector, and your dear European Commission would have allowed that, but you did not listen to it. One day we may discover the VAT applied to arms supply contracts and various equipment; weapons that we obviously buy to send them to Ukraine in the name of peace. By the way, what kind of weapons are we buying? By who? Where are the contracts? Are you secreting those too, like the ones you did for Big Pharma vaccines? It's all secret. How you like secrets! You've also put the state secret on the lack of red zone in Alzano and Nembro. Dear Lords of the Government and dear colleagues of the majority, you are indeed succeeding in killing Italians in the name of Europe; that Europe which you are still telling as a generous benefactor. Well, if there's all this money from the National Recovery and Resilience Plan why don't you put it on the plate of the real economy to drastically lower the expensive expense or the expensive gasoline or the expensive bills? You want to get rid of Russian gas and make life impossible for those who restructure in the name of energy efficiency. I repeat: it is useless that you tell the story of the "first Italians" or that the broad understandings are needed to protect the citizens. Even at our beautiful beaches you are ready to offer investment funds. This DEF is yet another predatory act against Italy and the Italians. But which one of you was elected to do these things? You are abusive or traitors to popular trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u89	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I would remind you that this resolution requires an absolute majority of the members of this House. The vote on the motions for resolutions will therefore take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Castellone, Tosato, Bernini, Malpezzi, Faraone, Steger and Depetris, to the Report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] We move on to motion for a resolution No 1 to the Economic and Financial Document, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I invite the authors to explain. The lyrics are in distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u90	Mr President, I will be very brief. Amendment 1.1 seeks to remove from the motion for a resolution the announcement on the relevant draft law on differentiated autonomy. As on every occasion, even in this circumstance, the Government re-proposed in the first place the bill on differentiated autonomy. What is differentiated autonomy? We should know. Many of us do not know and then come to the squares to advocate themselves as defenders of the South. A lot of us don't know that. Let me just remind you that it would be attributed differentiated autonomy to the regions with which at this moment have already been close agreements, namely Veneto, Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna, respectively for 23, 20 and 16 subjects. Do you know what we're talking about? If you don't know, you need to know because these are very important subjects. Among the subjects required by Veneto and the corresponding financial resources are the organization of justice of peace and the general norms on education, which means not only school, but also the framework rules on school, therefore also the possibility of hiring teachers and teachers of the Veneto Region, for example, and not of Sicily. There is also protection of the environment, the ecosystem and cultural heritage; international relations, protection and security of work, education, health and food protection, civil protection, land management, ports and airports, transport and navigation networks; national energy production, transport and distribution; supplementary provision. All this brings with it the attribution of resources and it is for this reason that also the Campania of De Luca asks the attribution of the differentiated autonomy, because it is not already a matter of caring for the interests of the Italians, but of managing the power and therefore creating the possibility to have their clients through the management of the money, let's be clear. That is why everyone is calling for differentiated autonomy on school and health care, because health care has a great weight in terms of money, as the school has it in terms of votes. Each of us, therefore, will have to respond to the fact that he is responding to his own leader and not as a representative of the nation. Vote in favour of this amendment, because the announcement of the bill on differentiated autonomy, which is the starting point of a genuine secession, must be removed from the DEF. How can you think that a state in which fundamental rights depend on geographical location remains united? How can you think that the school must be diversified to this point and the health care, which we have seen succumb under the first blows of the Covid, must be even more regionalized? How is it possible that today you do not realize that differentiated autonomy is nothing but a secession of the rich, as it has been defined? It is, however, a short-sighted choice, because by impoverishing the South, the only market that supports production in the North and Central Italy will fail. On the previous occasion only 26 senators voted in favour of this amendment, but all of us then go to make ourselves beautiful with the Provinces, with the Regions, with the territories of the South. Attention, however, that in this case it is not only the South, it is the unity itself of the Italian State that is at stake. I would therefore also like to address that part which is so important to the unity of the State: Article 5 of the Constitution requires the unity of the State also in the context of decentralisation, which means that the State adapts to the local reality, also with reference to the possible autonomy, but which must be specified for a reason, for a reason, not at odds with all 23 subjects. What does that mean? What is it? You must give account to the nation we represent and not to your party leader. I wonder if you've figured it out. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u91	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the presence of Mr Patuanelli to explain Amendment 1.10, which basically calls for the price of agricultural gas oil and for fisheries to be reduced. Because very often in this House so many colleagues, especially the members of the Agriculture Commission, have denounced the sudden increase in fuel costs due to the Ukrainian crisis, which we all know, and as this violently and dangerously impacts on our production chains, today with this amendment we have an opportunity. I therefore ask the Government to evaluate the amendment proposal, at the first signature of Senator Ciriani, with whom, as I said, it is basically asked to reduce the prices of agricultural gas oil, for fisheries and for the agri-food chain and to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD) in order to further reduce the charges on fuels used by the supply chains. I would ask the Minister, who is here, to give a favourable opinion because, apart from his intentions and good intentions, I believe that it is also appropriate and fundamental to give concrete signals and this amendment goes in this direction. Thank you for your attention, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u92	Mr President, I would like to speak very quickly to address my colleagues in the centre-right, who we believe are and can still exist. We therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of amendment 1.12, which corresponds to what you say and which we say when we are dealing with voters. It is a precise, precise and clear amendment, according to which, in the context of tax reform, measures should be taken to reduce taxation on households and businesses and to exclude from tax delegation the revision of cadastral export. We ask that we show that we are consistent, at least on such strong issues. We therefore vote in favour of this amendment in order to reduce the taxation on households and to prevent the revision of the cadastral bans. Those who vote for it will be consistent. Of course, we are asking the whole Parliament to be consistent, but we are asking our centre-right allies in particular. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u93	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u94	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u95	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments. Otherwise, the opinion will be against them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u96	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u97	I would ask Senator De Falco if he would withdraw Amendment 1.1. DE FALCO (Mixed). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Falco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Ciriani if he intends to withdraw Amendment 1.2. CIRIANI (FdI). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Ciriani if he accepts the call for the withdrawal of Amendment 1.3. CIRIANI (FdI). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Ciriani if he accepts the call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.4. CIRIANI (FdI). No, Mr President, and I would like to say that I do not accept the invitation for all subsequent amendments either. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u100	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I rise on one of our many amendments, especially to explain why, as the Group president has just informally said, we do not withdraw these amendments. We have no reason to withdraw them, because they are all meant, written and wanted in the interests of the citizens. We would have expected that, since they were all written, thought and wanted in the interests of Italians and Italy, the Government could not liquidate them with a simple opinion contrary to all the amendments in agreement with the rapporteur. Mr President, the sense of responsibility that moves Brothers of Italy on many occasions, even important, of internal policy and foreign policy, the sense of responsibility of Brothers of Italy to the House and the Senate, I believe gives us the right to imagine that we can at least examine what we think serves to improve these measures. The quick definition that is useless, that the opinions are all against, that you look at nothing, that you do not even ask for a remodulation, that you do not need the opposition makes us not only confirm the presentation of these amendments, but consider that these positions, which you assume as necessary, are aimed only at keeping the Government unduly clinging to the spit and not to the interest of Italy. We shall therefore vote in favour of our amendments, proud of your vote against and smiling at any abstention vote, which is worse than the vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u101	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u104	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture, but also those in the centre-right and centre-left, in the 5 Star Movement and in the PD, that when we do the hearings in the Commission they should tear their clothes to tell farmers and fishermen, to everyone, that the price of diesel fuel is high. [[Applause]] It is killing our supply chains, as they can from tomorrow before farmers and fishermen and say that you have actually rejected Amendment 1.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u105	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u108	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment No 1.12 because for many weeks now Parliament and the Government have been engaged in the debate on tax delegation. We have read dozens of very demanding and very hard statements from representatives of the majority parties, who said that the house is not touched because it is the fruit of the sacrifice and savings of the Italians. It has been clearly stated that any hypothesis, even theoretical, of increasing cadastral values is not acceptable and not even conceivable. It has been said and pointed out on our part, Mr President, that the increase in cadastral values and the reform of the land register do not only affect the value of housing, but are likely to exclude hundreds of thousands of families from the social benefits linked to the values of the ISEE. Clearly, in fact, if a person or a family has the misfortune - because this is the case - of having a house owned, the result of many sacrifices, the cadastral revaluation also produces an increase for the purposes of ISEE; in addition to the damage, the mockery. In the end, however, the moment of truth always comes in life, and also in politics. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the moment of truth. We have the opportunity not to announce to the newspapers, but to vote pragmatically, now, at this time, in this House, a commitment to the government to cancel that reform from the political programme; we also have the possibility to say that that reform is a scam, that we cannot say that we are doing the reform, but we will not apply it, because not even a child believes it. So now we of Brothers of Italy have made a commitment to call to accountability and transparent decisions all parties. There is no possibility of escape, either we vote in favour or we vote against. Everyone will then assume their responsibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u109	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Presutto, Rivolta, Damiani, Manca, Conzatti, Steger and Errani, accepted by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-425.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 21 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.)
