ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2488. The rapporteur, Senator Valente, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u5	Mr President, Decree-Law No 221 of 2021, which we are called upon to convert into law - as is well known - provides for the extension of the state of emergency and other measures for the containment of the spread of the epidemic by Covid-19. I would like to say on the premise that the work of the Commission has been valuable and important, in which there has once again been significant cooperation between all political forces. Once again, Parliament has been called upon to convert a measure in a very short time. We tried to do our best and I think I can say that, thanks to the precious and always precise support of our offices, we have done a good job. We have done so in a dialectic, natural though heated, between majority and opposition forces and I believe that in the end Parliament's contribution, albeit in a short time, has been very much in a position to improve the measure. In this very short premise, I would like to stress that one of the things that we had most at heart, and that we tried to stigmatize and at the same time overcome, was the objective difficulty of coordinating the many measures that followed in recent months in the past years of pandemics. We have done so by including important rules, and above all - as I will say later in the report - by amending the measure which the Government has subsequently incorporated, with an amendment, into Decree-Law No 221. We have also done so as a result of the Commission's position, with a letter from the President of the Commission. I believe that this is a sign of Parliament's work and, above all, I would stress once again how much Parliament is able to make its contribution, even in times of emergency and in special circumstances. Of course, my report will focus on the Commission's contribution to amending and improving the measure. So I will try, as boring as it is as a report, to say, article by article, where we have spoken and how we have improved the provision. Article 1 provides for the further extension to 31 March 2022 of the national emergency state, in view of the health risk associated with the continued spread of Covid-19 viral agents. It provides that the Head of the Civil Protection Department and the Special Commissioner for Emergency also adopt orders aimed at programming the normal continuation of the activities necessary for the fight and containment of the current epidemic. During the examination in the Commission, an amendment was tabled by the Government, containing, in addition to Decree-Law No 229 of 30 December 2021 - which was then incorporated into Decree-Law No 221 that we are examining - also those coordination and clarification measures to which I referred first. In its new Article 2, Article 1 of Decree-Law No 33 deletes the general precautionary quarantine requirement in case of close contact with a virus-positive subject and provides for the replacement, where negativity to the virus remains, of a self-surveillance regime and the obligation to wear FFP2 and FFP3 devices. Article 3-a, novelating Article 9 of Decree-Law No 52, introduces the definition of green so-called green pass base and green pass strengthened, compared to which the amendments contained in the two Decree-Laws no. 221 and 229. Article 4 re-introduces the obligation from 25 December 2021, the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law, until 31 January 2022, also in the white zone and also in the open-air places of use of respiratory protection devices and, until the end of the emergency, the obligation of FFP2 masks for shows and sporting events. Article 4-a commits the Special Commissioner to define, in consultation with the associations of manufacturers of safety devices, and in agreement with the Ministry of Health, a protocol with pharmacies and other authorised dealers to ensure, until 31 March 2022, the sale at affordable prices of breathing protection devices FFP2. Two new features have been included in the Commission: the derogation from the rules on the recognition of occupational health qualifications, including for health facilities directly or indirectly affected by the emergency by Covid-19 and the establishment of a technical table at the MISE for the future planning of the supply of protective equipment. Articles 5 et seq., as amended by the government amendment, provide for a list of activities subject to a reinforced basic green certification obligation, which are presented in a clearer and more transparent form for citizens. In particular, until 31 March (term of cessation of the state of emergency), private training courses are also planned in the presence of cases whose access is subject to the possession of a green certificate of basic type. Article 5-a provides, until the end of the state of emergency, an extension of the cases of areas and activities whose access is reserved to persons holding a Covid-19 green certificate generated exclusively by vaccination or healing. The possibility of carrying out and using without the possession of a green certificate for children under 12 years of age and for those for whom there is a clinical contra-indication to vaccination remains firm. An amendment in the Commission then extended the capacity for sporting events to 75% outdoors and 60% indoors. Article 5-b extends until 31 March 2022 the validity of the provisions governing the obligation to possess and exhibit the green certifications Covid-19 so-called school, educational and training basis, as well as in the field of higher education. Article 5-c provides for the obligation to hold the so-called super green pass from 10 January 2022 for access to and use of means of transport. Article 5-d extends to 31 March 2022 the application of transitional rules requiring the possession of a Covid-19 green certificate for access to workplaces, both in the public and private sectors. Article 5-e provides for the extension of the transitional rules on green certificates for access to the judicial offices of ordinary, administrative, accounting and military judges and members of tax commissions. Article 6 prohibits, from the date of entry into force of the decree-law until 31 January 2022, events and festivals involving gatherings in outdoor spaces. For the same period, activities taking place in dance halls, discos and similar venues are suspended. Article 7 regulates the access of visitors to social, social, health and hospice residential facilities for the period from 30 December 2021 to 31 March 2022. Article 9 extends the administration of rapid antigen tests at affordable prices to 31 March 2022. Article 10 amends the rules of the national information platform established for vaccination activities against Covid-19. Article 11 defines an urgent measure for the control of travellers entering the national territory for the purpose of containment of the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus. Article 12 extends until 31 December 2022 the application of the legislation already in force for 2021, which allows the administration into pharmacies open to the public, by pharmacists, of vaccine products against Covid, with its definition of financial profiles. Article 13 contains provisions relating to support to the Ministry of Defence in the provision of analysis and reporting for the tracing of positive cases at Covid in the school environment. In the Commission, it was envisaged that the Covid Emergency Fund for the 2021-2022 school year could also be used for the purchase of air sanitization, sanitation and purification equipment. Article 14 authorizes the expenditure of 6 million euros, for the year 2022, for the realization and setting up by the Ministry of Defence of an infrastructure at a military site suitable to allow the storage and storage of vaccination doses for national needs. Article 15 makes some changes to the rules on the application of the Common Customs Tariff. Article 16 extends until 31 March 2022 the terms of the legislative provisions set out in Annex (a) to the Decree-Law under consideration. The Commission extended to 31 March 2022 the prohibition to apply penalties or penalties to operators of public transport services due to minor resources or minor journeys. The breakdown of expenditure on Police fixed-term contracts in local authorities for public employment constraints is extended to 2022. In addition, the last session of the final tests for the academic year 2020-2021 is extended to 15 June 2022. Finally, Article 17 lays down transitional rules for the performance of agile work by so-called fragile workers in the first two months of 2022. In this respect, the equivalence of the period spent in quarantine with active surveillance for fragile workers was extended to 31 March 2022 in the Commission. Allow me to make a final remark before I conclude. Obviously - it is useless to say - the measure under consideration is converted at a different time than the one in which it was thought. We have had to deal with this and we have taken into account many of the comments made by the political forces and not all of them have been transposed. I believe that it is our duty to keep our attention high on this issue. I also believe that, once again, in the circumstances given and certainly in times not easy for politics, to stay at the time with an epidemic that changes in a really sudden way, we have done the best possible work in the given conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u6	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked Senator Balboni to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group has submitted the question for a preliminary ruling in order to request that the articles of the draft law in question be not examined. If the law - and in particular Article 24 of the Civil Protection Code - provides that the state of emergency must have a maximum duration of 12 months (prorogable, in extraordinary and exceptional cases, for a further 12 months), there will be a reason. Moreover, the legislator has set quite wide limits, because - I remind everyone - this rule is from 2018 and previously the maximum time limit was three months, then extended to six months and finally, in 2018, to twelve plus twelve months. The state of emergency - as the word itself says - has a meaning to cope with unpredictable and exceptional situations. With the decree-law that today we are called to convert the Government, after an innumerable series of similar measures, it has actually normalized the emergency. The state of emergency is, however, an extremely serious measure that compresses fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution, including freedom of movement and enterprise. Precisely because these are constitutional principles, these can reasonably be compressed only in a comparative judgment before - precisely - exceptional situations. Unfortunately the pandemic lasted for many months also because of the inability of the government to face it with appropriate measures, because it has focused everything and only on the vaccine [[Applause]] And we have forgotten the home and timely care; we have forgotten those preventive measures that we of Brothers of Italy have constantly asked, unheard: to secure transport; to make the FFP2 mask compulsory in crowded places, in means of transport, in metropolitans, and especially on regional trains; ventilation in schools. [[Applause]] We have been asking for this for months and only in the last period, at last, have you begun to agree with us, hypocritically pretending to ignore from those who came such proposals for too long unheard. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u8	I apologize, Senator Balboni. Although you have one of the hardest voices in this House, a basic buzz makes it difficult to follow your speech. I would therefore ask Members to reduce the volume of the item or, if possible, to remain silent for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u9	Please, Senator Balboni, continue. Balboni (FdI). Thank you very much, Mr President. But, as we know, the voice of the only opposition in this House is now seen as an annoyance, and I believe that all our colleagues from the far left to the right are demonstrating this: we are an annoyance and I apologize if we continue to insist on believing in democracy; I apologize if we continue to believe that this House should also be a place of confrontation between different opinions, but this is the role that we have carved out and I think that if you do not listen to us, the Italians will listen to us. [[Applause]] To continue my speech, I wonder what is the point of continuing with the emergency, with more than 90% of vaccinees and, if we consider the cured, we reach 95% of the immunized population. What sense does it have - as you do with this decree-law - to continue to clutter rules on increasingly confused, increasingly contradictory, increasingly complicated norms? It will take a hundred-page manual now for every citizen to know how he can go shopping; how he can go to the cinema or theater; travel on the means of transport and exercise the minimum constitutional freedoms that should always be guaranteed to him. The vaccination obligation for all citizens over fifty years of age, even for those who live in the countryside, for the couple of pensioners who legitimately choose not to have social contacts, for a farmer who works outdoors or for a family business where there are only parents and children and not strangers, is one of the absolutely unreasonable rules; standards that all over Europe and the world are now starting to cancel and that you want to repeat instead. Take care: this is not only a problem of constitutional freedom, but also of economics, because tourism in Italy is worth - or perhaps it was worth - 13, 14, 15 percent of GDP and now throughout Europe and the world are planning Easter and summer holidays. Then I put myself in the role of a tourist who comes from abroad and reads that in Italy there is still the state of emergency and needs the super green pass to do the shopping, to be able to move and to enter the restaurants, and then the super green pass and the negative buffer. This afternoon a negative buffer will also have to be presented in order to enter this House: but how? Mr Draghi, didn't you say that with the green pass there was absolute security to be safe, to be safe? So what's the point of swabming if you're safe with the super green pass? [[Applause.]] In order to enter this House today we will have to present a negative buffer done even on the same day. This means that perhaps we were right, listening to those experts who told us that the vaccine does not prevent the circulation of the virus, that you can get infected and be infected even if you have the third dose and - unfortunately, as demonstrated by the dramatic situation of Israel - even if you have the fourth dose. It made sense, then, to ask for all the measures we did not listen to, and on which only today you finally began to reason. We are giving a message to tourists all over the world, inviting them to go to Spain where they can do what they want, or to England, where they can do the same, either in Greece or everywhere, but not in Italy. You are creating the condition of killing, for the third consecutive year, one of the main factors of development and gross domestic product, which is Italian tourism. [[Applause.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled the question for a preliminary ruling. By now you have all joined the politically correct. You've all accepted the religion of the green pass. It is no longer a question of pragmatic reasoning about what is useful and what is not. It is no longer a question of balancing the various interests that are also in the field, because there is certainly an interest in health - we are the first to say that health must be absolutely protected - but there is also an interest in the economy. Today the whole world is trying to get out of this dilemma to ensure that economic recovery is absolutely necessary. And, instead, you continue with this religion for which it is no longer possible to discuss the matter. Dear President, let me conclude with one consideration: it is truly scandalous that the children, or rather the daughters, of two political leaders, Giorgia Meloni and Matteo Salvini, have entered into the debate these days. [[Applause.]] Priests of the politically correct religion are not ashamed either of dragging into political controversy an individual choice of parents who, together with doctors and pediatricians, are free to choose without becoming the subject of political debate or worse. And I'm also referring to PD colleagues, like Senator Marcucci, who should be ashamed... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u10	Senator Balboni, always speak to the Presidency and not directly to my colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u11	Balboni (FdI). I shall conclude, Mr President. It has turned into a political lynching a choice of two free and conscious parents, among other things made by more than two thirds of all Italian parents. These are the reasons why we ask not to pass to the examination of the bill of conversion to our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u13	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Airola? AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to tell me about what. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the statement by Brothers of Italy, which is called a force of opposition or the only force of opposition. This is misleading, because they are not the only opposition force, but an opposition party. In fact, there are other Members in this House who can say that they are opposed. It is therefore a propaganda that diverts the attention of the citizens who follow us. So they stop making the champions of the only opposition. It's an important technical reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u14	[[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u15	Thank you, Senator Airola. In any case, let us say that there is no genuine interpretation of the definitions that each one intends to give. Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Ciriani and other senators for a preliminary ruling. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, the vote is under way, so I would like to refer to an attitude which allows the Presidency to conclude the vote on a regular basis. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u16	Mr President, it is useless to point out - it would be LaPalissian - how special and exceptional the moment is: extending an emergency state is something that has no equal - we have said it several times on this issue - in Republican history. The characteristics of a state of emergency are certainly gravity and exceptionality; if exceptionality becomes ordinary administration, then we are facing something else, since we have dramatically compressed personal freedoms and have upset the lives of people, families and businesses. We therefore need the responsibility, which brings us here today to vote in favour, and which led us to the Commission yesterday to present an agenda which the League strongly wanted, at the first signature of my colleague Mr Augussori, the agenda with which the Government is asked to review, with balance, reasonableness and proportionality, the rules that we have imposed on Italians. The data go in a precise direction thanks to the responsibility of those who have not opposed simply one we close everything to one we open everything, but has struggled - as the League has done - for the single norm, for the single category, for the single initiative. Every extra day, every activity a little more open or less closed changes people's lives. We therefore wanted an agenda yesterday and we have tabled amendments - some of them have been accepted - which go in this direction, because even one day it can make a difference in loosening not only simple measures, but a real loop around the neck, often also on the economic side, of many activities. Another word that needs to be added is "timeliness": this must be done immediately and, therefore, we ask not only daily to be able to review the measures, but also to do so today in this House. I am taking the concrete example of an amendment which was rejected yesterday in the Commission, but which as a League we have chosen to re-present, which concerns some of the events to which we are all more attached and which from North to South unite our country. It asked, at the urging of the mayors, to be able to loosen the measures in the white zone to allow demonstrations such as the procession of the candles of Gubbio, in my region, which took place for hundreds of years; even during the war the women brought the candles on Mount Ingino and even the soldiers on Col di Tenda during the war did a small procession. The amendment also concerns the Palio di Siena, the procession of Santa Rosalia in Palermo and all the processions of the other cities, such as the festivals of the large shoulder machines, declared UNESCO heritage, in Sassari, Palmi, Nola, Viterbo and other places. Giving the mayors the possibility of simplified procedures for these demonstrations in the white zone means going in a direction of reopening and restarting our country. The Government has given an opinion against it, the amendment has been rejected and we have retabled it in this House. Then, I would ask the Government to reflect on it further, in the time of the general discussion, and to review the opinion. I will ask, of course, with the permission of my Parent Company, to vote on that amendment anyway. Then I address myself, as well as to the Government to change its opinion, also to colleagues in Tuscany, Sicily, Sardinia and all the regions where events such as those outlined take place, which for hundreds of years have represented our tradition - giving up tradition is the first step to give up oneself and its history - to vote in favour of this amendment anyway. If we say here in words that the constraints and procedures must be limited and reduced, we must also do so in everyday life. Some might say that it may not be extended next time, but let's start today. What do we tell the citizens of Noto about the procession in San Corrado on February 19? Do they or don't they? What will we say to the citizens of Gubbio for the Crystal Festival scheduled for May? Can they start working on it or not? Let's give a signal and let's start with our tradition and our essence. If the government does not do so, I hope that Parliament can claim it and do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was told that even in the Senate a measure was adopted following the super green pass and that it introduces the same rules that apply to workplaces: some Members, not vaccinated, will therefore be in a position to be unable to participate in the work of this House and not be able to perform the function for which hundreds of thousands of people voted. In this way the country is deprived of a part of its representation, made of people who are healthy - I repeat, healthy - and who with a simple buffer could verify their own contagiousness; limitation that is not made to those who are vaccinated, although it is evidently shown that the vaccine does not eliminate the contagiousness. Yet, I believe that all of you will remember the false proclamations about the validity of the vaccine and its effectiveness against the transmissivity of the virus. I also believe that it is clear to everyone how to equalise our task to that of so many other workers means to diminish the high role that has been assigned to us. I do not think that we should proudly highlight the role we play, but at least acknowledge the high task that has been assigned to us and that we are trying to do the best we can. I remind everyone that a few days ago, during the election of the President of the Republic, an external post was created which also allowed those who had the Covid, like myself, to vote. I regret that the same treatment has not been given to healthy people and in particular to Mrs Cunial, who has committed the grave sin of not being vaccinated, as if constitutional rights depended on being vaccinated. Constitutional rights - we must never forget this - are the rights of all citizens and depriving a representative of the people of their right of representation, I believe, is a very serious fact, which I would not have liked to see. But nonsense doesn't end here. Nowadays a foreigner arriving in Italy can access restaurants and means of transport having done a simple buffer and, therefore, not necessarily being vaccinated. With a simple buffer a foreigner will be able to travel on our trains, while an Italian non-vaccinato will not be able to do so, as if the Italians were citizens of the B series. This simplification for foreigners, even in its absurdity and discrimination, will not in any way be able to compensate for the immense losses of the tourism sector, terrified by draconian rules and constantly changing, which have directed tourists who loved the beautiful country towards other shores and, in particular, where those measures have not been adopted. It takes little to find them, because super green passes and vaccination obligation were almost the only ones to introduce them throughout Europe. Almost everywhere even the lightest measures of the super green pass have been eliminated, even in countries where the contagion has claimed numerous victims. Almost everywhere one recognizes the least dangerousness of the Omicron variant, which is the one widely dominant in our country. I am surprised how we continue to support the validity of the super green pass and the vaccination obligation, introduced to increase vaccination, which was almost 90 percent of the population, because they did little for their purpose, being that percentage grown by very little. Despite this, the deaths in our territory have not diminished, being still today Italy among the countries in Europe with the highest number of deaths daily. It is my opinion that the best thing today would be to bring down the decree-law and to acknowledge with honesty that the measures we have taken have not been effective or have been very limited. One thing, however, is certain and we have been told by Amnesty International, the association that has been fighting for human rights throughout the world for decades. Amnesty, on 19 January, urges the Government to anchor its interventions to the principles of legality, legitimacy, necessity, proportionality and non-discrimination. Any public health policy must also be based on the most up-to-date and verifiable scientific evidence, motivated by objective reasons and accompanied by clear and transparent communication methods. It therefore seems clear that Amnesty has not only found some interventions adopted by our country illegal, illegitimate, unnecessary, not proportional, but also discriminatory. Public health policy has also appeared not to be based on the most up-to-date and verifiable scientific evidence and not accompanied by transparent communication methods. It is easy to verify the reason for these criticisms: we still receive daily a death report, but we do not know whether it is people who died for Covid-19 or Covid-19, all put in the same cauldron. We know little about the deaths and adverse reactions related to vaccinations, which are unfortunately there and have been minimized. However, even these days it is said that the positive aspects of vaccination are greater than the negative ones, which I can also share. But I wouldn't want any of you to be in a position to comfort a family that has lost a family member, maybe a child, or has suffered permanent adverse reactions. And myocarditis seems much more frequent than stated. We continued to repeat until nausea that the vaccine was safe, although it is still being tested and we do not know if it will cause long-term adverse reactions. Yet, I continue to impress the image of the Managing Director of Pfizer who says that the first two doses of vaccine have almost no effect and that the effectiveness becomes of some importance with the third dose. It is known, however, that the vaccine was created for Delta variant and the CEO himself reiterates that a specific vaccine for Omicron variant will be ready in March. Any person with a minimum of brains realizes, however, that to vaccinate in March, when the contagions are in severe decline, and to make a call in July-August, when the contagions are almost absent, is a health contradiction. Of course, the economic interest in pharmaceutical companies, which have earned and continue to earn billions with vaccines, is not a contradiction. And it is clear that in September, probably, a new variant will have developed, since the pandemic does not stop by vaccination 100% of the citizens of a country: which is impossible, which has not succeeded to any country. There will always be a part of the population who, for the most varied reasons, will not want to vaccinate and we all have to respect that will, even if they are individual people. It is absurd to introduce the vaccination obligation and at the same time ask people to sign a waiver in case of adverse reactions as is now the case. Unfortunately, with the super green pass we have denied fundamental rights, such as the right to education and work, to those who are not vaccinated. Access to the bank, where your savings are kept, is also prevented, which obviously affects the elderly, who are not familiar with electronic access. The most serious thing, however, was to prevent people from being able to do their job, even preventing access to public transport. Work is a fundamental right and I wonder how all of you can support a measure aimed at making a real blackmail towards a, albeit small, section of the population. We should all work for the respect of the fundamental rights of every person and I do not understand that the right to work and access to the workplace has ceased to be a fundamental right of our country, even if it seems that a wide range of this Parliament has forgotten it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u19	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u20	Mr President, it would take a long time to be able to discuss these issues, but I will try to condense in a few minutes some concepts that have emerged not only from the discussion of this measure in the Commission, but also from the so-called regulatory cluttering that Parliament's classrooms see, having at their examination measures relating to the management of the pandemic emergency. We come, with this measure, to manage still the state of emergency and, consequently, the tools that are connected to it: therefore, the green pass and the vaccination regime. We understand very well that government action had to be confronted with a serious situation. And, although the numbers are positive today, in the sense that the curve seems to be actually decreasing and we are going towards a resolution of what are the pandemic problems, but we must not lower our guard. My speech focuses more on the appeal of government action to our employers, towards our citizens, who very often do not understand the goodness of the rules that we go to approve, when they are obviously good. I quote the example of an Italian citizen who, just these days, has found herself accessing a public office and has seen herself put at the door simply because the municipal administration to which he addressed did not even want to look at the documentation of vaccination exemption. This is a problem that has recently been solved, having arrived yesterday the green pass through a code that replaces the Green Pass. Great, but why didn't you get there sooner? This is what our Group, our Members of Parliament, is trying to bring to the attention of the Government; an attention which must be paid at times when amendments are proposed, which are not biased or simply aimed at gaining electoral consensus, as others may think. On the contrary, we try to listen to the citizens. For example, the woman mentioned, who is Italian, and therefore our employer, could not withdraw the identity card, because someone, within the government team, evidently did not want to pay adequate attention. [[Applause]] We are aware, because we are convinced of the Government, that this attention will come back to us and that therefore this type of problem can also be solved. We also hope that some distortions, such as those within the world of sport, can be resolved. I have tabled amendments with my group, as have other groups, on the capacity of stadiums and - which is particularly important to me - the possibility of having sports practice even for those under 12 years of age who have been vaccinated, so that they have chosen to vaccinate, but that during the fifteen days of the super green pass they have not been able to access sports activities. I have been told that in the Commission this amendment has not been substantially transposed by everyone. The reflection behind the amendment clearly responds to common sense: if a boy has decided, with the consent of his parents of course, to vaccinate why not allow him to carry out sports activity? If we go to say at all our meetings that sport does well, that it helps health and accompanies us towards a recovery not only psychological, but also physical, why not also give these kids the opportunity to exercise legitimately and in the full capacity of their sports intended as personal, social and sports promotion? These are the attentions we ask the government. These are the attentions that we must take forward regardless of whether or not we are in favour of the vaccine. These are matters that I sincerely don't care about. I am interested in the fact that citizens can live peacefully, surely and fully their status as citizens. This is a reminder to the Government, I do it myself and I believe that it can be done as a parliamentary House. I really ask that this attention be taken by the Undersecretary to the relevant ministries and in particular to Minister Hope so that he can understand that certain proposals are not propaganda and political, but simply proposals of common sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining yet another decree-law dealing with the health situation in our country. However, we must say something important that must not go unnoticed. We are converting a decree-law of 24 December 2021 and, in the blackberries, the Government, evaluated the epidemiological curve, considered to intervene to mitigate what at the time of its adoption seemed necessary measures and that instead the reassuring epidemiological curve proved to be able to be mitigated. That's the way it is. It can't be any different. The evolution of the epidemiological curve puts the Government, in agreement with the Scientific Technical Committee, in condition to make those modifications that make more bearable the restrictions that no one has voted lightly and that no one has approved to make a spite, but that have become necessary to limit the health and economic damage that the epidemic has brought. No one has ever said that vaccination makes the subject immune in the most absolute way. It has certainly been said and established that vaccination greatly limits the harmful consequences of the epidemic; admissions in intensive therapies, hospitals and specialised departments have decreased. There is still a significant percentage of deaths. However, I want to make a point because otherwise it seems that all the sacrifices made did not have any meaning. Every year in our country, during the flu seasons, about 8,000 people die. It's a certain statistic. The fact that there are still more than 300 deaths a day does not mean that they are necessarily linked to the epidemic. Instead, they are linked to the general context that statistically characterizes our country. The decree-law under consideration extends the state of emergency, which we hope will end on 31 March, but also the powers of the Head of Civil Protection and the Commissioner's structure, but makes significant changes. For example, for green pass holders who come into contact with positives, quarantine is no longer necessary, but the use for ten days of the FFP2 mask, therefore a self-control of the subject. Some situations have been changed within the school, which I believe has been the most penalized structure: our children will unfortunately pay over time the consequences that this epidemic has poured on the school, where finally measures have been prepared to limit to the maximum the distance teaching, because for me it is right that our boys have the right to have a performance in presence. Another initiative has also been taken: with the funds already in the availability of the Ministry of Education (and therefore schools) equipment can be purchased to sterilize and control ventilation within schools. I believe that we have also had speeches in the Commission. In this regard, I would like to take up the recommendation, which we heard during the oath of the President of the Republic, for greater consideration of Parliament and greater coordination with the Government. Of course, if the decree-laws arrive at parliamentary scrutiny at the last moment it becomes difficult to make a substantial contribution. We, for example, have changed how best we felt about this decree-law, but colleagues in the House will probably have to approve it as well as the Senate will fire it. Greater coordination, including preventive coordination, is therefore desirable before the enactment of the decree-laws. We have made changes not to create an accident, because Parliament must also have the opportunity to express itself: an amendment tabled by all the parliamentary groups provided for the possibility for the extraordinary Commissioner to call the Italian producers of masks to the table of the crisis. On this text there was an opinion contrary to the Government, which we honestly did not understand at all, because it was of common sense and did not provide for costs. It was an amendment from the productive world: in the hearing we heard the producers of the masks, who told us that they responded to an appeal from the government that at the time had urged them to convert to produce masks; these producers had invested millions of euros to join this invitation and be useful to their country and then they were estranged from the negotiations and with the market still in the hands of the Chinese producers. We have therefore envisaged that the extraordinary Commissioner should call on Italian producers of masks in consultation and that these categories may also be represented in the technical table set up. There is one thing that needs to be clarified: Mrs Pirovano had tabled a common sense amendment, which included the need to mitigate the prices of masks for children. On this too, the Government has expressed an opinion which we do not believe is founded on, even if we have respected it. Again, in the hearings we held in the 1st Commission, the Italian producers of masks said that they were able to start producing children's masks and commit themselves to mitigating their price. While today it is enough to enter any pharmacy or parapharmacy to see advertising messages that talk about masks for children (which apparently do not exist, but so it is written) that are sold at a price not mitigated; this certainly brings damage. An amendment adopted in favour of fragile workers is also important. This, for example, is a case in which there has been excellent coordination between Parliament, the Government and the Ministries: because there was no funds to cover this need, the Ministry of Labour came and took full responsibility for the necessary sums. We hope that the measures can be mitigated over time and that we can finally get out of this tunnel, in which, however, our economy, if we relate it to the European one, has grown in a greater way; and this must also have meaning. This is certainly the result of the many sacrifices that our entrepreneurs, our workers and our fellow citizens have made; we must also take credit and not only take responsibility for the negative situations that we have had to endure. Overall, it is a necessary and useful measure, which can be improved. We have had the commitment of Deputy Minister Sileri, who participated in part of the work, to launch, for example, the final green pass: with three episodes (two vaccines and one cure) it is useless to undergo a continuous cycle of vaccination. And there are many others, such as the transfer from the islands to the continent. Many other initiatives are still underway, which the Government has undertaken to deepen and incorporate into the next measures. Therefore, ours can only be a positive judgment on this measure, in the hope that later we can improve and limit to the maximum or completely eliminate the restrictions and sacrifices that our fellow citizens have had to make in our territory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u24	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in general debate on the measure under consideration, concerning the extension of the state of emergency and measures to limit the spread of the epidemic. In this regard I would like to propose some reflections and, above all, to highlight the problems not so much related to the measures envisaged, but above all to the method. This is also due to the presence of the Undersecretary, who may be able to report to the Government. Let us start from the main consideration, namely that health is the primary good of each one of us and that the role of those who govern is to do everything to preserve it, that it is right and proper to use competent people in the medical and scientific field, to ensure that the decisions made have a scientific basis and above all manage to mitigate the risks. But then the political decisions in fact are the responsibility of the Government or, more precisely, the Ministry of Health. I do not want to question the measures taken, because if we have not been forced to lockdown at least this winter, it means that they have been effective; and that is a good thing, also with regard to vaccinations. The point I want to make is about the method. I understand that the situation is not easy and that decisions are not taken lightly; but to make these decisions we have made use of experts, who, with their studies, can predict the progress of the pandemic. I remember that the newspapers in the autumn assumed that the peak of infection would be between Christmas and New Year's Eve; then this date was moved. I believe that certain claims were supported by the data of virologists or scientists. So in fact, at the beginning of the autumn, we could hypothesize the measures to be put in place, such as the closures of certain exercises, and therefore also expect to support them in the immediate with effective refreshments. That is politics: I close you, I pay you. I am referring to the closure of dance clubs and discos. I remember that on 23 December last year the draft of the decree was circulating here in the Senate, in which the green pass and the buffer were provided as requirements for access. Within a few minutes, we passed from this measure to the closure. A few days from New Year's Eve, the stakeholders, who are 3,000, received the news that their premises would be closed. I agree that where there are more gatherings and special situations, such measures need to be taken, but to anticipate the intention would perhaps have prevented these operators from planning events, buying goods, preparing premises and the practices necessary to carry out the events (which are all costs). Let's not forget the employees, which are about 100,000. These observations serve to understand that nightclubs and ballrooms should not be perceived only as a playful part, which is what the user sees. These activities must also be seen from the perspective of the owners of the company, allowing them and their families to maintain and carry out the activity with a certain programming. This meant a lack of revenue, but above all expenditure for which there was no return, except waiting for the rest of the day. I would remind you that the so-called ristori-ter decree is of 27 January, that is one month after the decree, and we will see when the resources will be paid to the beneficiaries who, in the meantime, will have to find the resources to pay the invoices. Another critical issue raised by the decrees concerns the decision to lower the validity of the green pass from nine to six months. This decision has also had a negative impact on the world of tourism, which is already in difficulty at this time. As I have said several times, tourism is made up of planning and tourist flows that determine the good performance of the season. This choice has in fact put in difficulty winter tourism, already worn out by last year's lockdown. In fact, winter tourism in the period of white weeks is mostly supported by foreign tourism, amounting to about 80%. The decision to diversify the length of the green pass compared to the other European states resulted in a flood of cancellations, forcing some hotels to close because the number of tourists was not sufficient to cover the expenses, which, however, this year have increased considerably due to the expensive bills. In this case, however, I would like to thank Minister Garavaglia, who immediately activated himself to find a solution to this problem that will save the rest of the season. These observations concern the method and not the merit. I want to thank all the doctors and healthcare professionals who are doing their utmost to ensure that all citizens are treated. I am convinced that solutions must be found to allow health facilities not to go into critical situations. We know how many people are waiting for urgent interventions, which have unfortunately been postponed because of the burden on intensive therapies. I repeat: my considerations are not about merit, but about the method, because in all situations we need programming. The League is there and wants to work to make its contribution to improving these measures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before the House today, published on 24 December 2021, set out in the report the intention to make provisions necessary to deal immediately with the evolution of the epidemiological situation in the current context of risk, which requires the continuation of extraordinary and urgent initiatives undertaken in order to adequately address possible situations of harm to the community. In fact, on that date the wave of infection due to the omicron variant began its surge also in Italy, with about ten days of delay compared to the situation already emerging in other European countries such as Great Britain, Spain, Denmark and others. From there to a week, on 31 December, the Government issued a new decree-law containing necessary measures to deal with the emergency connected with the evolution of the epidemiological situation, further integrating the framework of the measures outlined by the decree-law of 24 December. As the first new measure, the state of national emergency is expected to be extended for a further two months, from 31 January to 31 March. This forecast runs counter to what other European countries have done: a state of emergency that lasts over two years to face a pandemic that certainly does not care to respect national borders should also be adopted by other European countries; instead, we see other neighbouring countries like Spain eliminating the previously adopted state of emergency, other countries like Britain or Switzerland have never adopted the state of emergency, Denmark has repealed it for five months. It could be deduced that the state of emergency in Italy is maintained to cover other inefficiencies of the Government. The state of emergency is prolonged because the health system is still in distress. It means that the measures and measures taken so far are not adequate and sufficient to ensure that the population has an effective health system to protect the health of its citizens. By extending the two-month emergency, what new corrective measures does the Government propose to take? What is missing from our health care system? Italy has achieved a high level of vaccination; according to the Financial Times, which maintains an updated ranking based on data provided by government sites in different countries, Italy is in second place in Europe, second only to Denmark, for doses of vaccine administered. Italy has vaccinated as a percentage more than Portugal, more than Belgium, more than France, more than Germany, more than Austria, more than Spain, more than Great Britain (and I could continue by listing all European countries), it has vaccinated many more people as a percentage than Israel, much more than Switzerland. Also with regard to the distribution of the third dose, Italy is at the top of the rankings, having already reached 60 percent of the population. Britain has reached 56%, Germany 55 and France with the third dose has reached 50%. Why, then, in view of the success of the vaccination campaign, does Italy continue to perform worse with regard to the contrast to the pandemic? Italy, with its current 360 deaths on average per day, i.e. 6.15 deaths per million population compared with 4.19 in France, 3.12 in Great Britain, 1.64 in Switzerland, 1.38 in Germany, shows the worst situation in Europe for deaths. Faced with the highest vaccination rate, it still has the highest mortality rate for Covid-19 in Europe. I wonder and ask the Government, therefore, what further measures are being taken, in addition to the vaccination campaign, to reduce the mortality rate for Covid-19. What is the aim of this extension of the state of emergency in order to resolve this critical situation of high lethality in order to better protect our population? Returning to the measure under consideration, Article 3 and the subsequent government amendment, the Government is concerned to change the duration of the validity of the green certifications Covid-19 to date from 1 February 2022. I wonder: how can a measure which enters into force forty days after publication be dealt with immediately by the development of the epidemiological situation? Where is the immediacy of contrasting action? The proposed modification - explained in the report - is intended to allow the administration of the third dose also to those who, medium time, have not yet received it, and at the same time to avoid the ineffectiveness of the green certifications Covid that would be expired with the entry into force of the new legislation. This is purely bureaucratic legislation: it is not clear what prevented citizens from getting the third dose and what with this rule would have been facilitated. Rather, the citizens at that time required the third dose in mass, while the doses were not available and were scheduled with difficulty. An elementary way of thinking would be to think that, in the face of a health emergency for which there is still a need for major government conflict and action, measures are being put in place to put more resources into care and prevention. On the other hand, the decree-law under consideration is basically concerned with placing heavy restrictions on personal freedoms on that small group of citizens who consciously and lawfully decided not to use vaccination. It is now only about 10% of the population, mainly from the younger age groups. The 12 to 19 years old, 19 to 29 years old, 30 to 39 years old and 40 to 49 years old are the population groups for which the virus, apart from situations of personal fragility, has been dealt with by the personal immune systems of human organisms in a very effective way, therefore the incidence of lethality and serious pathogenicity have been very low, even in the absence of vaccines. Instead, the decree-law introduces forecasts of aggressiveness precisely for these groups of youth population that make up more than 70 percent of the people who are still not vaccinated today. 10:47 a.m. (Following MANTOVANI). The consumption of food and drink at the indoor counter and in catering services, access to hotels and other accommodation facilities, shows open to the public, sporting events and competitions are prohibited; access to museums and places of culture, swimming pools, swimming pools, gyms and sports centres, wellness centres, parties resulting from civil or religious ceremonies, private training courses, if carried out in presence, are prohibited. It is not easy to understand where common sense lies in applying these very hard, unique restrictions in Europe, which place us at the highest level in the world for strictness index. In addition to limitations on personal freedom, these limitations to fight the pandemic led to the collapse of activities in bars, restaurants, pizzerias, agritourisms, which has consequently overwhelmed entire sectors of agri-food and made in Italy. Coldiretti estimates in 5 billion euros the amount of unsold food and wine, and in 2022 the trend is deteriorating. According to Epat Ascom Torino, bars and restaurants in Turin and Province have to pay daily more than one million euros per day for that slice of customers that, being without green passes, cannot make consumptions. Federalberghi Roma and the Tourism Councillor denounce the incomprehensible dissonance of the rules currently in force. With the obligation of green certification or green passes for museums and monuments in the places of tourism and culture you can no longer enter. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I would ask you, please, for a further 30 seconds so that we can finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u27	Thirty seconds, I'll give it to you. MANTOVANI (M5S). In our country, access to culture should always be encouraged and not hindered. A group of 20 dance schools met to ask political institutions to take a step back on green pass legislation, because the discomfort of young people and girls is increasing and we cannot go on like this. Even football teams under 17 close. A thirty-eight-year-old man set himself on fire in the square in Oderzo because he did not own the green pass and had been fined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, the 30 seconds you asked for more have passed. MANTOVANI (M5S). I ask the government to step back from this abnormal application of the strengthened green pass, because it is clear that it is not a health measure and it goes to compress freedom violently on people not particularly subject to the Covid-19 pathology, and risks increasing economic damage and also the psychological retention of children and in the younger sections of the population. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, if you don't, I'm gonna have to take your word for it. MANTOVANI (M5S). I'm finishing, thank you. I have retabled in this House the amendments that have not been taken into account in the Commission which call for a return from the green pass reinforced to the use of the green pass base with the use of the FFP2 mask. I think it's a measure... president. Thank you, Senator Mantovani. She is registered to speak Senator Cant. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u28	Mr President, I take advantage, apparently out of the question, to express my bitterness for losing the opportunity, first in the budget law and now in the context of the conversion of the unified measure with the Government's amendment for not being able to take care of those who cared, recognizing at least a refreshment to the families of doctors who, especially during the first part of the pandemic, when they lacked everything (from the pandemic plan to the personal protective devices) and little was known of how to deal with the virus, with a spirit of self-denial have tried to limit, sometimes at the expense of their own life, the pandemic effects for their patients. I am very sorry that the sub-amendment, although it was shared by all the Groups, including - and I thank you for that - opposition, for unknown reasons has been downgraded to non-priority, while in its time, for example, funds have been found for shelters that save wild animals, a very meritorious issue but from my point of view of priority very much after that of the refreshment of those who saved human lives. [[Applause]] We have lost two battles, but we cannot afford to lose the war, even if we know that nothing will return to the affection of their families those who have lost their lives. But in their memory we will not disregard anything, indeed we will try to re-produce it in every place, moving from words to deeds, well before March 18, the first anniversary of the established National Day in memory of the victims of the coronary virus epidemic, so as not to leave it meaningless, because believe me, sometimes the medical class is underestimated compared to what it actually does for the common good [[Applause]] As we enter the evolutionary perspective of the measure under discussion, it teaches us that we must be forward-looking, because unforeseen events, especially in the health field, are a variable to be taken into account even more than in other areas. And we can no longer afford to chase the reality, having to approach with method the prevention and recovery of delays in care, to honour the truth already intolerable well before the pandemic, in a framework of systemic vision, of proactive prevention and of governance of individual and collective risks, because otherwise we will face an announced hecatombe, with incisive dispositions to make effective the predictive analysis and the surveillance systems indicated, but still unimplemented. In the same way, we must act effectively with very persuasive mechanisms on the monitoring of resources, controls and responsibility of the entire chain, which up to now is not allowed to trace, with the exception, at least partial, of the measures provided for in the decree support-b, which makes us believe that our confidence to the Government, although with some criticality of the way and even if it has gone a little 'long, was and is well placed. Don't disappoint us with the refreshment of doctors, we also make sense of the President's words. It is a decidedly challenging perspective in terms of order review, to guarantee the effective implementation of mission 6 of the PNRR, with an innovative government of health and new rules of engagement of the distributors, including doctors of general medicine, also regarding the proactive integration between hospital and territorial medicine, going to reduce the incidence of the risks of pathologies, not only infectious, with an accredited network and contract of care continuity for levels of intensity and timeliness of care: the Government on this, despite the appreciable efforts, should have a little more marked impact in evaluation and controls of appropriateness and security, in a framework of full institutional responsibility. The same should also apply to conscious adherence to vaccination prophylaxis, because the increased confidence of citizens in the state should indirectly overcome many of the concerns about the safety and effectiveness of vaccines; as I will never stop pointing out, we are among those who believe that we must convince not to force and one of the strongest arguments to convince those who hesitate and are opposed to the vaccine is that the State takes full responsibility for any adverse effects. [[Applause]] From our point of view a great step forward has been taken, also with regard to the application impact of the measures provided for in the decree-law in conversion, with Article 20 of the decree-b, since it has finally revealed the concept that an obligation cannot be imposed, even in a surreptitious form, without assuming the responsibility for the possible consequences: from January 27, thanks to the thrust of the League, all this is norm. Acting in the prevention and promotion of the health of the person, the family and the community through conscious adherence is therefore another battle that we must know how to fight and win together - the way of our future - by combining protection of health and fundamental freedoms according to ethics and responsibilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u30	Mr President, I take advantage of the general debate on this measure extending the state of emergency - and we hope that we can assume that it is the last, for both legal and epidemiological reasons - to leave a few brief remarks in the minutes. The pandemic comes to an end, wherever in Europe the restrictive measures taken or not taken are abandoned. The rapporteur herself pointed out that the decree-law - but I should say the decree-law, since Decree-Law No 229 of 2021 has merged as an amendment in No 221, in question - has now surpassed the events. Everywhere in Europe we conform to the wise words attributed to Keynes: When the facts change, I change my opinions. What would you do? These words, however, Keynes never said (Samuelson said them), but they have a sense of themselves. Forgive me the emphasis on the paternity of the quotation, which is not only an excess of erudite fetishism, but it is also a way to enter into the heart of a theme that I feel I must and I know I can bring to your attention: the worrying cultural regression, which risks being one of the heaviest and most persistent legacy of this pandemic; a regression that has taken the worrying forms of the compression of every free debate, in this and in all other forums, for the benefit of a totalizing and totalitarian appeal to the principle of authority, to the ipse ixit. When what is said becomes less important than those who say it, it is easy for us to start on roads without exit, especially considering that in the Middle Ages ipse was Aristotle and today it is the Scientific Technical Committee, in which - forgive me all those involved - I cannot see a huge progress, if I must evaluate the contribution of this organism in the light of the instruments that my scientific training offers me to judge colleagues of unfamiliar discipline: the validity of the forecasts and the internal coherence of the affirmations. The journalists had fun - and I don't want to bore you - with the repertoire of pirouettes and false predictions that this body has provided us. I'm going back to my concern. I am concerned about the analogy between the use a certain policy has made of "science" and what it has been doing with Europe since ancient times: Europe, first, and science, then, have become the means by which a political class has shunned its responsibilities, among other things, making these means an always curiously asymmetrical use. Science has been used to close, but it recalcits to use it to open; science has been used to impose obligations that have proved to be scientifically unfounded, but still do not want to take note of it. Unfortunately - and I am also referring to Mr Cant's remarks - the first result of the high alpha and omega of our debate, also political, this paradoxical faith in science (because I believe in science) is an oxymoron, science should be doubt, investigation) was that many citizens have lost confidence in the science and institutions that have taken refuge in it in order to escape their responsibilities. A similar asymmetry - again in the context of the measure we are analysing - applies to the so-called Europe, which, it is worth remembering, would be the European Union. The Covid-19 pass was born with EU Regulation 2021/953 as a tool to facilitate freedom of movement and avoid hateful discrimination; it is in that spirit that I personally voted in favour of this House on 16 June 2021: at the time it seemed necessary to promote the free movement of European citizens, in order not to kill the tourist season. The application that has been made, however, has gone in another direction and we must tell us: the instrument has been used to limit the circulation of Italian citizens and has given rise to a series of hatefully discriminatory behaviours and continuous intolerable violations of privacy, including criminalization of citizens who were simply exercising their own right. Among other things, this has caused considerable damage, which has been mentioned in this general discussion, to many economic activities. My colleague, Mr Antonio Rinaldi,'s question about how the Commission intends to intervene to combat these discriminatory behaviours has remained unresolved. The European regulations apply when they are used, for example with the bail in, to clear the savings of Italian citizens; they are interpreted when they are used to defend their freedom. This is a curious asymmetry. We must re-appropriate, because we are capable of doing so, our ability to judge the measures from their results. From this point of view, I must say that it is very difficult, even in an international comparative perspective, to give a positive judgment of the green pass in the version we have experienced in Italy, with its set of obligations, on whose dubious constitutional legitimacy Professor Alessandro Mangia spreads authoritatively in one of his last speeches. The amendments, which the League has tabled here and which it will present on the occasion of the next many deadlines of similar decrees, are designed to make this instrument less vexatory. What the League has, however, authoritatively asked, at the mouth of its leaders, is that it be definitively abandoned with the end of the state of emergency, because we are concerned that our life is entrusted to a digital pass in a country that has not yet posed the theme of transposing into the Constitution the protection of the digital identity of the person, the subject of a bill deposited by Mr Morelli to the House. A country in which even that minimum right is not protected, which is the ability to make and receive electronic payments and does not avoid condemning to civil death those who, for some reason, see themselves rejecting the opening of an account from a banking institution, as Senator Siri asks for a long time, with a bill of pure common sense on which we still await the opinion of the Government. In theory, passwords are digital and inclusive, but then, in practice, the entire digital infrastructure is used to exclude and that worries us. We are concerned to entrust our existence or digital pass in a country where there are no strong legislative garrisons against the possibility of seeing our digital identity crippled or reset, but also in a country whose computer infrastructures have proven to be very permeable. Here in Lazio, always to remain on the subject of health, it was demonstrated last summer, with collapse, due to an attack of hackers, the infrastructure of the regional health, with all the problems that then have been achieved. So, although it certainly will not be the intention, because the intentions will certainly be excellent, but we are concerned about an instrument that could be in fact the Viatico or the assumption of a capitalism of Chinese control. If we want to regain competitiveness towards this important and, to some extent, worrying competitor, we must not pursue it on its own path, that of the system of social credits, but we must continue to affirm our path towards progress, which is the protection, always and in every place, of freedom. Freedom, not repression, has guaranteed Europe its excellence and has made possible the many scientific and technological revolutions that today provide us with unthinkable levels of well-being even a century ago. Let us continue on the path of freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Ricciardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are preparing to convert a decree-law introducing different restrictions on personal freedoms and it is essential to approach them with careful and thoughtful assessments, given the current framework, not only from a health, but also from an economic and social point of view. It should be remembered that what we call the green pass today, as Senator Bagnai has already mentioned, was born as a tool to facilitate the cross-border movement within the European Union. We then decided to extend its use, giving it the role of a public health tool. At this moment, however, we have a duty to understand the end of the enlargement of its use in particular and its maintenance in general. Each project needs a goal. So we have to ask ourselves the question: what is the objective that we set ourselves, in the short and medium term, with even more restrictive use of this green certification? In my opinion, the risk that we run, further intensifying the measures, is to undermine the country's social standing, already strongly felt by the pandemic, together with a depression of domestic demand, at a time when, among other things, the flows of visitors from abroad are greatly reduced. Going around our cities, we observe a country torn apart, depressed and unfortunately divided. Many measures related to the green pass, impact especially on young people, the future of our country. In difficult times unity is a fundamental element, which must be pursued by every means. This is an element that cannot but be considered. We cannot ignore that the extension of the green pass has important effects on the contraction of domestic demand, considering that the drive to consumption is not influenced only and exclusively by economic availability; a general depressed and tense atmosphere will negatively affect consumption choices related, for example, to leisure. The strengthening of an emerging measure tends to generate anxiety in the population with an impact on consumption. How can we explain empty restaurants with 90% of citizens with the super green pass? To this is added the theme of foreign tourists. Are we sure that the image we are giving is not that of a country characterized by countless restrictions to avoid as a vacation place? Also because this happens at a time when neighboring countries are preparing to eliminate or in any case greatly reduce the use of the green pass. Today more than ever we must be aware that talking about spending on holidays and leisure is not being frivolous or disrespectful of the deceased but paying attention to fundamental sectors of the real economy. Behind every renunciation of spending on our territory there are families that are impoverished, children who will not have adequate food, children forced to stop studying, procrastination of family choices that, sooner or later, will impact heavily on our country system. What we need to focus on right now is to give a real signal of restart that it does not add limitations and complications to those who work and promote monetary circulation. It is therefore important that we strive to find stable solutions that do not simply aim at putting patches on, but at creating the conditions for a lasting economic recovery. The contraction in domestic demand due to the wave of the Omicron variant occurs at a time when, among other things, strong limitations have been introduced to the possibility of transfer of credits with the decree-law support-ter and anti-fraud. Transfer of credits means support for the movement of goods and services and therefore for the real economy, which I committed myself to during my term of office, by depositing two bills relating to the transfer of tax credits and the creation of a platform for the exchange of tax credits, currently under consideration in the relevant Commission. The seriousness of the situation is such that it can only be tackled with extraordinary instruments. We need an open mind that introduces innovative tools. Only in this way will we be able to give a strong message of hope to a strongly tried population, encouraging it to believe in the future of our country. We can no longer entrench ourselves behind palliative measures that we already know are not able to tackle the problems of the real economy in a decisive way. The superbonus 110 percent was a gym to experience a new way of conceiving tax credit, raising it to a real flywheel for economic transactions. We now have the task of not sinking this experiment, but of extending its scope, always in full respect of the European Treaties. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Movimento for what it is doing to protect this strategic measure at this delicate time. We have a duty to punish those who violate the rules, but also to protect those who have approached the superbonus with honesty and have positive effects on both the economy and environmental protection at a particularly dark time. It would be the latter who would pay the highest price of a restriction on the instrument. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in reminding myself that we must act rationally and that history will judge us for today's choices, I ask you whether we are sure that we have clear the objective that we are going to pursue with the conversion of this decree-law and whether we are sure that we are pursuing the aims of protecting public health. And again: are we sure that the rules we are imposing are not inducing such a state of stress in the population that will make it difficult to return to normal? Finally, I ask you whether we are prepared to face the months that will come with mental openness by disanchoring us from the traditional, unsuitable schemes to face the current economic situation. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that at this moment we will have a healthy, serene and thoughtful debate to protect the entire Italian population. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u33	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to join Mr Cant in his remarks on the shameful circumstance that we have not been able to recognise the minimum compensation to the families of doctors and medical staff in general who have lost their lives because of the disorganization, misinformation and the lack of sufficient mechanisms to protect them in the first and second waves of this epidemic. I do so after I have shared the measure in the Commission and on all subsequent occasions when I have tried to convince the Government to do something absolutely normal, indispensable, dignified. I also have to agree with Mr Airola, and the others don't want me. In fact, listening to the debate, the opposition in this Chamber - I address the Undersecretary representing the Government - really goes far beyond the Brothers of Italy. The verbal, oral opposition has a remarkable consistency in this House and I could mention the Members who spoke before me; the problem is that when you press the button, you have to be careful to exchange green with red, in short, you exchange the vote in favour of the government with the contrary. [[Applause]] Without uncomfortableing a great Sicilian like Sciascia, these people he would have called it "quaquaraqu," placing them at the top level in the ranking of the men of that great man who was Sciascia. I therefore agree with my colleague, Mr Airola, because in fact, Brothers of Italy is the only opposition party that then votes in line with what he says. That's true. There are also others who make verbal opposition and then align themselves with what the Government establishes. The decree-law in conversion bears the norms that have concerned the last Christmas holidays, at the end of the year and the epiphany, because this Government is attentive to the sanctification of the holidays and has given us a decree-law for each holiday: the measures today in conversion only those of Christmas and St. Silvestro. I do not want the representative of the Government, of course there is nothing personal, indeed, on a personal level I express total solidarity, because to those who work at the Ministry of Health with Minister Hope and come here to take all the right considerations heard so far, there is only to express human consideration, we would miss it. Personally, I wouldn't do that. However, there is a problem of coherence and almost dignity, of decency of the institutions, of the Senate of the Republic and of Parliament in general. Colleagues, today we are again dealing with measures that act on the side of the restrictions and we are going to convert them in the presence of a reality of the epidemic that sees us absolutely succumbed. It is not a verbal exaggeration to say that you continue to enact and convert mortal measures. This is a government that has exercised a deadly action compared to the pandemic and is not an exaggeration, because in all the passages of the pandemic, from the beginning, Italy has recorded and continues to record the record of deaths today. This evidence is dramatic, because we are not talking about budget liabilities numbers, but about hundreds of thousands of deaths and their family members. With regard to this, the entire Government, the Minister of Health, the infamous technical and scientific committee (CTS), the gentlemen who sit in that assembly, who still speak, still pontificate and are not ashamed to do so. We are faced with a dramatically important circumstance: we have brought our economy to its knees with dramatic results on our gross domestic product, we have prevented the exercise of fundamental freedoms, we have also prevented freedom of speech and a calm and normal confrontation on essential issues, obtaining as a result the record of the dead, still today. And even today we go on television and come to Parliament to tell us that we must continue to do the same things we have done to date, which have been mortifying. And of all this we are not ashamed, not even in front of ourselves, in front of the mirror, in front of our conscience. Representative of the Government, the things to start doing, because others also do, obtaining excellent results, are: to make mechanical ventilation in the classrooms, which costs four pounds and must be done immediately; to strengthen the transports to avoid the assembly of the boys (who do not protect themselves with the masks, because they are boys) inside the buses of the school transport; to develop the home therapies, because that is why we have the record of the deaths. [[Applause]] People who are not treated at home, in fact, arrive in dramatic conditions in the hospital and die. Vaccines must also be updated. Mr. Undersecretary, why do we continue to vaccinate with the vaccine that protects from the first version of the virus when the virus has completely changed? [[Applause]] We, Mr Undersecretary, do not do the tracking; and not doing the tracking means completely losing control of the pandemic. That is why, among others, we have the record of deaths. We don't even make sequencing, that is, we don't know today if a positive person at Covid, because he made a buffer (rapid or molecular that is), has an Omicron or Delta variant or a new variant, because it is possible that there are new variants. We do not sequence and - be careful - that is not what Senator Zaffini says in this Chamber today, but he said it six months ago Brusaferro, the head of the Higher Health Institute; he said that Italy sequenced little. We never moved, on this pandemic, doctors of general medicine, who lived the pandemic in absentia. Even today the doctors of general medicine are not involved and unfortunately there are many that tell nonsense. We don't do antibody screening, which other countries do. Before we proceed to other doses and become addicted to the vaccine, we have to evaluate the antibodies, because, if someone had the Covid once or maybe two (there are people who had the Covid even three times), what is the use of vaccination? What good is it, when it is written on all sides that the antibodies that derive from the disease are evidently well superior, better, performing and immunizing vaccine antibodies (otherwise old vaccine)? Why did we buy ten doses of vaccine each in Europe? Can the government tell us that? Why did we buy ten doses of the old vaccine? And why do we continue to administer the old vaccine? Is it legitimate to suspect that we simply have to run out of stocks? Is it legitimate to suspect that? I could talk for another half hour and say the things Italians ask themselves every day. Mr President, thank you for the time you have given me while the microphone flashes here. Colleagues, I conclude with a prayer to all of us: we are aware of our role, exercising at least the sacred obligation to ask questions and ask answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u35	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the critical phase of the pandemic seems to be over. This means, however, not that the emergency is over, but that we must tackle this new phase with the utmost caution. We are being asked by the citizens and businesses that are experiencing a rather interim phase, also because of the uncertain international geopolitical framework within which Italy is necessarily following with great concern the very serious tension between Russia and Ukraine, which could really affect our lives in a devastating way. Europe and Italy, in particular, cannot afford to look elsewhere. The energy supply, on which the lives of businesses depend (in particular the small and medium-sized ones) and - consequently - the survival of families must make us think carefully. The decree-law that we are about to convert must be understood in all its complexity. We have said this several times: we do not go out of the pandemic alone and we do not go out unless we consider what should be the founding values of a society, to which President Mattarella also referred in his speech of settlement: solidarity, the right to work and the reduction of inequality. In a word: dignity due to every human being. The decree on emergency, therefore, concerns everyone because it defines for the umpteenth time how much it is necessary to give in order not to endanger the health of all because of the call of some to that sublime value of freedom. I quote Erich Fromm, who explains to us how freedom obliges us to take decisions and decisions entail risks (in our case, the risk of not protecting the weakest, the most fragile and the most exposed in all senses). The measure clearly regulates visitors' access to social, social and health care residential facilities and hospices, which involves important inconveniences. However, we believe that these measures are necessary for the containment of the spread of the virus in places where there are fragile fellow citizens we have a duty to think about. The institutions have a duty to protect the health of all, on which our well-being also depends. How much have we acclaimed - it has emphasized also the president Mattarella - a vaccine in the first terrible lockdown, appealing us to the scientists and the researchers in order to make soon? This is an appeal that many have forgotten. To get vaccinated is something that we owe to those who did not make it, to those more than 150,000 deaths and to those health workers who have worked and continue to work with massacred shifts in hospitals to cure even those who, before getting sick of Covid even in a serious way, mocked us vaccinated, allowing themselves to doubt science and research. With this measure, a balance has been sought between all the political forces in our House: a tiring balance, but I think we can be satisfied. I thank everyone for the collaborative approach and for helping to define the rules that determine this new phase that we have begun or are about to live. I thank the Offices, who have also generously spent themselves to support the work of the Commissions. There have often been references to other countries in this House. At this stage in which the emergency cannot yet be said to be completely over, Italy has been able to face the difficulties better than other countries. The strict rules have had the strength to prevent the worst: the closures of activities, already strongly tried. We, unlike in other countries, have taken responsibility for thinking about citizens, especially children and young people. The severity of the pandemic situation of the Central European countries, for example, that may not have followed the rigour of Italy, has seen them forced to dramatic measures, with problems important for citizens and for productive activities. The choice to focus on the vaccination campaign was a winning choice, as the data on hospitalizations and intensive therapies tell us, and we must thank the vast majority of the citizens who joined the campaign. [[Applause]] The extension of the state of emergency is therefore a choice that is made in the interest of the country and the security of all. It is wrong to think that the real gaze on the need to stem certain risks that we can still face the fears of citizens. There are contingent and certain times that determine this important passage of approach to normality. We have addressed the problem of schools and universities well knowing how much DAD has affected not only the quality of the teaching offer, but also the mood of pupils and students, as well as teachers and teachers who have often had to adapt teaching methods, especially for children. We have not forgotten the discomfort of families by providing, in an article of the measure, rules on parental leave. The pandemic has caused a fraying of the social fabric and rebuilding its plot will take time and effort from all. It is crucial, after an initial phase of great uncertainty, to have known and able, thanks to research, to follow the developments of the health framework and the mutations of the virus, but - I want to emphasize - we owe a great thank to the citizens who, with a great sense of responsibility, despite the fears, the upheavals of everyday life and limitations, have followed the rules not always easy, respecting the decalogue defined by science, listening to the virologies, those who dedicate their lives to research. Now we are waiting for a complex time, the recovery will depend on many factors. Our country is capable of reacting. My region - I remember it often - in 1976 was hit by a devastating earthquake, but the Friulians rolled up their sleeves as in the first and second post-war times to rebuild the countries and lives of individuals and communities. I am convinced, therefore, that we will all be able to recover that normality which we took for granted and on which this measure also helps us to reflect in order to reach it as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u38	Mr President, we have not yet arrived, unfortunately, at the end of the line, because I expect that this measure will not be the last and certainly not the last. It's getting worse and worse and you go on a slope that has become really dangerous, that seems to have no end. From the last decrees we are discussing today, which have been inserted into one another as in a matrioska, it is first of all clear that there is no longer any opinion of the Technical and Scientific Committee. There is no longer the fig leaf of technicians and scientists who should limit the responsibilities of politics. The latter have now deduced from this role of ill-elevator of a legislative madness that no longer knows limits. The responsibilities are now only political and are seen in these measures that have nothing to do with health: the green pass and the super green pass have nothing to do with health, but they are measures aimed exclusively at eliminating dissent with respect to a vaccination strategy in itself. The so-called vaccines, unfortunately, are not even up to date: so many people who have contracted the Covid in these two years certainly has a more up-to-date immunization than that of the vaccines, and yet it is not exempt from having to do doses. Even healthy health workers are expelled and suspended from work until they are vaccinated, even if naturally immunized. We have come to this delirium that now seems to know no more limits or boundaries, aimed exclusively at vaccination. Even the volunteers who go to feed the homeless under the bridges are sanctioned, because the homeless have to go to the canteens of the poor where the super green pass is required. We have situations in the country that are now exploding. With a series of delirious measures such as the forty differentiated ones, which really have no scientific basis and on which no one has explained, the parents are forced to vaccinate the children even without having any guarantee on the medium and long-term effects of these products, which, I repeat, provide an unup-to-date immunization, and which, moreover, on the boys and children is also perfectly useless because they manage to overcome the Covid without consequences. You know very well that there are no studies on the correlations with other diseases; that there are no studies on the effectiveness - in terms of duration-effect - of these products. You know very well that there are no studies on the effects in the medium to long term and that, since you have defined vaccines as these experimental drugs, there are three years of additional monitoring that have not been activated at all, because we are in passive pharmacovigilance, and besides the vaccine damages are not recognized because they are subjected to an AIFA algorithm that refers to an algorithm provided by the World Health Organization that is not based on any published study. This has been reported to me as a result of my request for access to documents. Moreover, since October 12, the AIFA does not provide the report on adverse effects, which it had to provide at most every three months. Not only are we in passive pharmacovigilance and an adverse effect is reported in at least 100, but also the report is not provided since 12 October: the last report closed on 26 September. Now vaccinations have taken place on children aged five to eleven years and we do not know if there have been any adverse effects. We do not know anything at all, but we have EudraVigilance data on all 27 EU countries, which speak of 38,983 deaths occurring near vaccinations and 3,530,362. These are the terms in which we must speak when we go to force people to a health treatment to which, if we were in a normal country, anyone, by asserting his human rights, should be able to escape without consequences on their civil rights. Instead, you forced people to choose between civil rights and human rights. [[Comments]] Now you are also hitting people's political rights, because you are limiting the possibility of vaccinated people to be represented both in the Senate and in the House, excluding all parliamentarians who do not have the super green pass and who are over fifty years old from here to 15 June. What's the point of health care? What health motivation lies behind this madness, seen and considered that the buffer is the only instrument that is actually required even when it comes to special situations in order to be able to attest whether a person is contagious or not, whether it is positive or not? Let us not forget that you have also allowed health workers, as well as all workers, to skip forty if they had the third dose, because - yes - with the third dose you get sick - because this vaccine does not immunize - and you die as well. They are all fannies that you go to tell altering the data of intensive therapies and admissions even in infectious diseases. What's with the crap? Because from the same statements of doctors and hospital managers all those who have passed the four months since the last vaccine administration are included among the non-vacciners; all these subjects are considered not vaccinated and inserted in this cauldron. Therefore, all the data are completely misplaced. How can you afford to ask parents to choose whether to make their children sick because of their lack of sociality, lack of education and school, or to expose them to a very high biological risk, on which you do not provide any guarantees? I think there really are extremes in this regard for crimes against humanity, which I hope you will have to respond to in some places as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u39	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u40	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I believe that this complicated legislature that we are living through, with the alternation of the different governments that we have been able to experience in these months, will also go down in history for a particularly qualifying objective that has been achieved and which has the name of vaccination. A vaccination that had never been given before in a historical moment without a cultural preparation. We were faced with the emergence of a pandemic, and in this emergency we had to experience the tragedy of the deaths, which perhaps we have now forgotten but whose numbers were really heavy, until the vaccine appeared in our scenario. Initially they were more types of vaccine, then we know that the vaccines that use the new mRNA mechanism have been progressively selected: I think of the vaccines of Pfizer and Moderna. The vaccine has been a watershed in the pandemic, as well as in the management of our time and the context in which we are living it has acted as a watershed the systematic, structural and continuous intervention of General Son, who led these operations and did it - I believe - with great competence and certainly also with a military interest that we cannot forget. The decree-law that we are examining today must be read in the light of these two situations: on the one hand, the drama of a disease and a viral aggression that has left us in the whole world surprised, dismayed, even distressed and locked in the house in their respective lockdowns and, on the other hand, the eruption of the vaccine as the only instrument, at that moment, of solving the problem: a means of prevention that was grafted into a situation of high complexity and that tried to create, in the sensitivity of all of us, the idea of vaccination. Vaccinating is good: you will all remember how, at the beginning of this operation, the vaccine seemed almost like a chase and it seemed as if the government's action was to slow down, order, classify and establish priorities, except then, at some point, graft a reversal of trend so it was good to vaccinate everyone, always and anyway, until the open days of vaccination. But it was precisely this positive pressing that allowed us to emerge from the pandemic, which is not yet fully resolved, but which nevertheless presents the conditions or at least the preconditions for a return to normality. This is what we are talking about right now: not so much the pressing of vaccination that we have tried to do using all the possible and imaginable categories: persuasion, conviction and scientific explanation to that of incentives (we know of companies that have even promised rewards to those who were vaccinated), up to the opposite situation, which is that of penalization for those who did not vaccinate, that increasing the share of complexity of life for those who were to be subtracted from the vaccine. Now, however, this sort of emergency requires us all to study an inclined plan to understand how we come out of it. We know that the most complex situations are, for example, those of schools: we believed for a certain period of time at the beginning of the pandemic - we all remember - that children were somehow immune to this risk. Then we discovered that the children were not at all immune to the risk: at first I remember the first cases that seemed almost to hear Kawasaki's syndrome, which is a particular syndrome, a pathology that affects children, because they understood the similarities and differences. But certainly we have seen children get sick and we have therefore seen the need to extend vaccination to them too, but above all we have taken into account one fundamental thing: the need for health must always be met within other needs. The right to health, as provided for in Article 32 of the Constitution, includes the need, for example, for children to take into account the right to education, hence the right to attend school, and for all adults of the right to work. We experienced the experience of smart working, which we emphasized at the beginning as if it were the solution and the panacea of all evils, but above all we emphasized what was involved in distance teaching. If you remember, a year ago, we talked about distance learning as the ideal solution, indeed we even emphasized its value for pushing the digitization it was offering. After that, as sometimes happens in intellectual fashions, we have almost moved from emphasis to demonization: it has been said no to distance learning, because it is not a suitable source of learning for children. However, today we can talk about the emergence of the most dramatic phase and therefore the return to normalization thanks to an instrument: this instrument remains, still today, vaccination. Even today, in relation to the therapies that allow us to intervene to cure the infection that is established when the virus attacks the organism, there are many hopes and some doubts, some doubts. We also know that, at this time, people who have received the famous three doses of vaccine and who still impact, encounter the virus can sometimes get away with treatments that are very similar to those of a normal flu; in some other cases more demanding therapies, such as those with monoclonals, are needed. Today we are discussing how to guarantee people that normal life, which includes the possibility of doing sports and participating in sports activities, to attend places such as museums, cinemas and theatres, and to attend discos as well. All this must fill us with hope in looking forward. On the other hand, it is still highly problematic to realize that the positive activity that the vaccine allows, facilitating social inclusion and recovery by all, does not everywhere have the same economic impact; it does not have the same impact on the plan, for example, of the reopening of the shops. Rome, from this point of view, is a continuous and constant source of experience of hotels and commercial establishments that have closed and which are struggling to reopen, of people who have not recovered their position of work at all and who are exhausted by a prolonged integration fund, which has not only reduced their economic possibilities, but has also often undermined their self-esteem, the spirit of initiative, the desire to get back into play. In all this influence not only the emerging costs, which are currently linked to electricity, light and gas, with all that this entails, but also an inflation that is nibbling economic conditions already experienced by the same pandemic. What we ask of the Government, also through the conversion of this decree-law, is that in lightening the measures that limit those individual freedoms and that are functional to personal and public health, we take more account of the difficulties for which people, returned to normal, fail to fully live the school experience, in the case of children, and the professional experience, in the case of adults. We need more attention and more resources in those cases, in order to offer a truly panorama of hope and much more concrete optimism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u41	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u42	Mr President, more than a comment on these two decree-laws (because they are two merged into one), which were thought a while ago (it was December 28th and there was a very different epidemiological situation: it was the peak of infection, death and hospitalization), I am about to express a kind of hope towards the members of the Government who are present here. First of all, since the epidemiological picture has changed (there has been a collapse, fortunately dizzying, of cases, so hospitals are starting to breathe and intensive therapies have decreased), it is good that the government begins to change strategy. Probably, at a certain stage, the most acute of the pandemic, the green pass and the super green pass were used to vaccinate citizens. So we say once and for all: it is a surreptitious obligation. More obligation this than the obligation imposed by law. At least we're clear, we're telling each other, and we're avoiding hypocrisies. Now that 90% of citizens over 12 are vaccinated, I say this to the Undersecretary: those who are vaccinated are vaccinated, while those who are not vaccinated will hardly be vaccinated with the obligations they have entered. As we can see from the number of first daily doses, these are no longer the obligations that can convince the rest. Perhaps it is better, to convince the so-called hesitant, avoid the iron fist, that perhaps compacts them among themselves and above all scares them, but seek dialogue and confrontation. We will never tire of saying it: dialogue and confrontation. [[Applause]] If the data continues to improve, as we all hope, if the virus becomes endemic and you go towards the end of the state of emergency, you have to start thinking of loosening the restrictions; you also have to start thinking of storing the green pass, starting with the super green pass. Why do I say that? Let us look at what is happening in other countries, in Europe and outside. In Great Britain, from 21 February, Covid-19 will be declared a flu-like disease; in Denmark, stop to masks and green passes: the Covid-19 is no longer a socially critical disease; in France they will recall the super green pass. So, is it plausible that in a week, instead, in Italy we force people to vaccinate, otherwise we stop them from going to work? Is it plausible to think that a representative of the people cannot enter Parliament if he is not vaccinated? Let's think about it. Let's talk about this. The citizens must all be the same. Therefore, we also give the non-Vaccinated to work and the non-Vaccinated to come to Parliament to carry out their duties, which have been assigned to them by the Constitution. [[Applause]] We hope that the Government will intervene in this direction, also because, compared to the abolition of the green pass, there are also many "trivaccinate" who are tired of having to present every time the pass in order to carry out their work and all the activities that everyday life requires. In addition, over time, the risk is also that our economy will be damaged, rather than in some way favored. We are thinking, above all, of the tourism sector. [[Applause]] So the sooner we get back to normal, the sooner we get rid of the pass, the sooner we get our economy back on track. Above all, let's look at the numbers carefully. Here again I address the Undersecretary: looking at the real numbers and drawing the right conclusions, because you cannot continue to consider dead for Covid-19 those who did not die because of the Covid-19, but who died from other evils and had also done a positive buffer, as the World Health Organization had suggested. [[Applause]] Not to mention some hospital that rigs the data, as the Restart survey on Rai 2 explained clearly, basically to have more resources and more money. We know, in fact, that the patients of Covid-19 are being renovated, both economically and at the hospital level, in a greater way than in many other situations. Mr. Undersecretary and members of the government, the picture is now heading towards the end of the pandemic. We all hope so and hope so, but the impression is that if we listened to the CTS, the emergency would last fifteen years. It is understandable why, if there is no longer an emergency, the role of the CTS also diminishes and, therefore, those who are part of it would probably no longer be directly involved in the first person as it is now. It is humanly understandable, but beware: such a thing would feed a culture of suspicion until yesterday unjustified. Some would be entitled to think that people want to get used to surveillance and we hope that that is not the goal. [[Applause]] Politics is once again the protagonist, taking back the space that has been left to doctors at this stage. Politics must once again be a protagonist, using common sense and reasonableness. I say it out of the teeth: we consider it a great exaggeration to remove salaries and pensions, social life and even deny treatment to those who have not been vaccinated. [[Applause]] We have always treated - rightly, I add - murderers and illegals because they are people, and I remember these words sculpted. If an Italian citizen decides not to vaccinate, what do we do? Aren't we gonna cure him and let him starve to death? Excuse me, but as Christians, perhaps we should all ask ourselves a few questions. [[Applause]] If this is the so-called new humanism, then we should call it inhumanity. Excuse me, but it should be. Bassetti talks about pacification. Crisanti says that today chasing those who do not want to vaccinate does not serve and would not change anything. Francesco Vaia, director of Spallanzani, said to free cities from fear, restoring the joy of living. The obsession with Covid is generating insecurity and aggression. We are careful because people want to return to normal and we cannot talk about normalities by associating it with free tablets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u44	Mr President, as President Romeo said, in his analysis and brief remarks on draft law No 2428, which we are debating today in this House, we cannot fail to consider the clear chronological breakdown between the moment when it and the various decrees-laws relating to it have been enacted and the current general situation. The epidemiological situation has certainly improved both for the number of infections and for the progress of the vaccination campaign, which has managed to involve an increasing number of subjects who initially rejected it openoristically. This reality is often the result of an information campaign that fails to touch the right keys or is not sufficiently widespread in its realization or, still, fails to transmit clear and simple messages, capable of removing emotions or preconceptions linked - the latter - often to psychological subjugations or cultural regiments without real scientific foundation. Over time, the rubber wall has been loosened and more and more citizens adhere in a responsible way to the vaccination campaign, without forgetting respect for individual and collective protection measures, while the clinically serious forms of Covid, those that require hospitalization or need intensive care, have in vaccines their irreplaceable point. The ability to spread and infect the coronavirus, which has been so high for the Omicron variant, largely depends on our sense of responsibility; on our civic sense of belonging to a community; on the advance of respect for the health of others, especially for fragile people, even by renouncing the right desire and the desire to resume to live, to redo many simple gestures of affectivity and sharing of joys and pains with their friends and family. Of course, however, if we ask citizens for sacrifices, restrictions and attention, the institutions must also play their part. All this must be achieved in terms of programming, shared choices, correct support and adequate capacity to respond to the many difficulties and problems that affect the various categories and the many business and commercial activities, without forgetting the need for constant and continuous coordination between the central management booth and regional and territorial structures. It must be noted that some of the measures adopted and the measures adopted are often the result of a political compromise between the different positions of each political force. We all know that, for the good of the country, it is not a question of putting a banner or of making its own position prevail, perhaps arrogant, without sharing, often linked to electoral perspectives or to the mermaids enchanting polls and exit polls of the moment. The political choices - in my opinion - must start from two fundamental points: on the one hand, to follow the scientific indications and the appropriate evaluations of the current epidemiological situation, with the consequent forecasts of its subsequent development; on the other hand, to verify the correct and comprehensive implementation of what is decided. To give just one example, it is not possible to predict the use of FFP2 masks in educational, educational and university institutions - as also provided for in the decree-law under consideration, which allocates a further 5 million in this regard - without at the same time verifying their real and effective availability in those structures. With another example, it is necessary to verify that the price of the antigenic tests provided for an obligation for pharmacies, approved and accredited facilities or affiliated with the National Health Service is actually applied according to the established protocols, avoiding further economic increases for the many citizens already in difficulty. In this regard, I had tabled Amendment No 14.0.6 on which the Government had expressed an opinion against the establishment of the so-called long-covid centres, to follow over time (in the next two years in particular) and to monitor patients in their subsequent course after the acute phase of Covid from a clinical, laboratory, cardiological, pneumological, but also psychological point of view. We also talk a lot about this latter aspect, especially in adolescents, but we have to ask ourselves what we really do for them. Already with Decree-Law No 73 of 2021, some performances such as electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, spirometry and chest CT for the follow-up of those subjects are provided by the National Health Service for two years, to modulate the severity of the Covid framework. However, I wonder what the result will be if there is no multi-specialist team in each ASL, as envisaged in the amendment, to coordinate, follow and take care of these patients. It is not enough to offer free diagnostic performance; there is also a clinical evaluation that needs to be done and the amendment on the Covid long centers provided for this. We would certainly have had an improvement in what is offered to citizens for the protection of their health. We need clear, simple, precise and linear choices in their correct application, not obnoxious or even to appear to be conceived by the minds of bureaucrats living in a reality far from what is real life; or - as in some cases happens - measures adopted and modified after a few weeks, of which citizens absolutely cannot understand the meaning. I shall conclude, Mr President, by emphasising another critical point. I repeat - in my opinion - the importance of ensuring the full implementation of measures for the reduction of waiting lists, never as it is now extremely long; this problem is undoubtedly already present and almost atavistic throughout the national territory, but in particular in the southern regions. Further action is required to ensure that the pandemic is recovered, by providing outpatient screening and ordinary hospitalization services for non-Covid diseases, which are still not adequately and promptly taken care of. Also the appropriate measures to counter these criticalities will be the concrete expression of an effective return to normality. Mr President, on 4 February it was World Cancer Day: 'Close the care gap', i.e. 'eliminating the unequal treatment', which is the slogan chosen this year. We need a recovery plan for oncology, in order not to have, after the pandemic from Covid, alongside the obvious or almost - I dare say - inevitable economic and social difficulties, a new health emergency, a next epidemic of advanced cases of cancer no longer operable or tractable due to the delays and deficiencies accumulated in the last two years. Mr President, I shall conclude. The 5 Star Movement respects the commitments it has made to the citizens and will therefore vote in favour of this measure, even with the small points I wanted to make. As our President Conte has well explained and also reiterated, there is a need for a pact for citizens, for more incisive action to address the various urgent priorities, from the expensive bills, with additional resources, to structural interventions in health, without forgetting the safety and dignity of work and the great challenges of the PNRR and reforms. These are just some of the critical issues and problems that every family lives every day on its own skin and to which we must give an answer today, and not tomorrow. We at Movimento 5 Stars are here, as always. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u45	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. Pending the opinions of the 5th Commission, I suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.14 p.m. and resumed at 18.34 p.m.) I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u46	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and I am in favour of the G1.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u48	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, identical to amendments 1.2, tabled by Senator La Mura and other Senators, 1.3, tabled by Senator Granato, and 1.4, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Granato, until the words (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.7 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.10 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G1.1 agenda is inadmissible. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.12 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u49	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2, with the exception of 2 500, on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u50	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u51	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, identical to amendments 2.2, tabled by Senator Granato, and 2.3, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/1, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u54	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, the text for the change of this amendment to the agenda should have been sent to the Presidency. I therefore call for this amendment to be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u55	It did not come to me, but we immediately ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u56	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u57	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u58	Senator Mantovani, do you keep the sub-amendment? The opinion on the agenda is, however, opposed by the Government. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u59	Mr President, if the government does not want to consider it as an agenda, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u61	Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u62	Amendments 2,500/4, 2,500/5 and 2,500/6 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 2,500/7.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u63	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2,500/7.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2,500/7.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u67	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on Amendment 2,500/7 there is a logical question. We have made a law that requires children to wear FFP2 masks both on public transport and at school, in case of contacts and whatever else, but FFP2 for children does not exist. We are simply asking that a table be made - as has been established with the approval of another amendment in the Commission - with the producers of masks so that, thanks to the cross-cutting work of the Commission, they can be consulted, as they have asked for over and over again. I remember, among other things, that we always asked them to produce masks when we were in emergency. This table would be useful to find out if FFP2 can be good for children and how they should be made. But if we ask manufacturers and importers to have a low price in pharmacies for FFP2, we cannot find in the pharmacies of masks that are not FFP2 sold to mothers and dads and that cost more than 75 cents and up to a few euros. We cannot understand why there is no willingness to solve this problem two years after the beginning of the pandemic. This amendment seemed to us to be a common sense amendment, because it is known that FFP2 for children does not exist, but there are only FFP2 small ones. So we maintain this amendment and we are happy that the Italian producers who helped us in the emergency were finally involved when the masks were not there. [[Applause]] It's probably something that should have been done years ago and not now.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u70	Toninelli (M5S). On Amendment 2,500/7, which concerns children's masks, I would ask for an additional verification by the Government, because the subject is very topical. As my colleague said, while the adult FFP2 masks are among the priced ones, this is not the case for children's masks, because they do not exist technically, nor by protocol, for children's masks. So, what happens to parents, including myself? In order to comply with the law and send children to school with the FFP2 mask, they buy small masks in the pharmacies, which do not fall into the category of FFP2, but act as protection in the same way. The difference is that they don't cost 75 cents, but the price goes from 1.50 euros up. It is also a problem that emerged as a result of the hearing of the Commissioner, General Figlio, who was asked why they had imposed such masks on children. How do we do that, since they haven't arrived in schools yet and, besides, they don't exist? Therefore - in my opinion - although not among the signatories, amendment 2,500/7 could be transformed into an agenda, binding and without conditions, that engages the Government, that is banning the races and that already in this decree will have to obtain a relationship of direct collaboration and consultation with the Italian producers of masks that can make warehouse and programming in the production chain, to insert also the masks FFP2 for children. It doesn't upset the decree, it doesn't upset the regulatory system and it helps millions of Italian families with children who go to primary schools and in particular to middle school. The FFP2 small to my daughter is not good: her face is too small for a FFP2 small and, therefore, you have to go to the pharmacy and pay 5 euros for the mask. Therefore, I ask the League, Senator Pirovano and the first petitioner Augussori to find a solution, with an agenda, perhaps signed by all political forces, that has a more important consistency as a commitment to the Government, so that in the next contests banned from the commissioner structure are included also the masks for children. This is the request and I hope that the Government can consider it, because it is a daily problem for Italian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u73	VALENTE, rapporteur. Mr President, given the issue and the important attention that I believe all political forces want to give to this specific subject, I would propose, if possible, apologizing to colleagues for having just started a short technical break. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u74	Colleagues, first of all, Senator Toninelli addressed the first signatory of sub-amendment 2,500/7 to the invitation to turn it into an agenda. I think Senator Augussori should give us the first answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u75	Mr President, I believe that the suspension, if it is granted by the House, will be useful for us to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u76	The suspension, if any, would be about ten minutes, because there are many amendments tabled. We cannot ask for a measure to be adopted by this week and then stop, because otherwise it contradicts what we have said. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u79	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, first of all, we are opposed to suspension. And then I would like to reiterate that the agenda and your request...
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u80	Senator La Pietra, if there's any opposition from you, I should put the motion for suspension to the vote. We'll talk about the merit later.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u81	Mr President, the situation is actually very clear. When there was a request to change the amendment to the agenda, the Government said no, it said it did not. After that, Senator Pirovano said that we were going to vote and then a suspension was requested. We are against it. The situation is clear. No was said on the agenda and Senator Pirovano asked to vote. We call for the amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u84	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in order to try to meet the need not to waste the time of the House and not to make the opposition angry, we ask, as the Lega Group, if possible - of course we must all agree - to put this amendment aside momentarily and move on with others, so as to give time to verify the possibility of the transformation on the agenda requested by Mr Toninelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u85	Senator Romeo, sub-amendment 2,500/7 is presented to a Commission amendment of such a size as to stop our work completely, because there would also be foreclosures in relation to Article 3. I therefore put to the vote the proposal for a short suspension of work until 7.05 p.m. It's approved. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 18.56 and resumed at 19.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u88	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us turn amendment 2,500/7 into an agenda and I hope it will have a priority, since we hope that the pandemic will be over soon and perhaps before then we will be able to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u89	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u90	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u91	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u92	Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.1500/7 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u95	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to sign this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u96	I see Senator Vitali also asks to sign it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u99	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to call this House to a principle of reality, because it can be useful for those who make laws. We have the little problem that the government of the best... president. Senator, this is not the content of the agenda. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Why not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no vote, so you can't talk about it, Senator. FAZZOLARI (FdI). What does that mean? Can't I talk about an amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no longer an amendment. If we go on like this the children grow up and there will be no more need for pediatric measures because they will have reached a certain height. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u102	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would also ask you to sign the agenda on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u105	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say that this agenda is also signed by the entire Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u106	Colleagues, the next amendment 2.1500/8 has also been changed to agenda G2,1500/8, on which I therefore invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u107	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u108	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u109	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2,1500/8 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2,500/9.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u112	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, there is a 95% majority in this House and 5% in opposition; perhaps a bit of flexibility to make the opposition say a few words is not exactly a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We have a situation that calls grotesque is to say little. We have the obligation of FFP2 mask for children, but the FFP2 mask for children does not exist. It is not a matter of size, because the child is not a miniature human being, but has a different conformation. Any uncertified medical care for children is not suitable for children; it is not that, since it has been certified for an adult, we make it small and becomes for children. Now, the question is this: can the Italian Parliament introduce the obligation of a mask if that mask does not exist? The answer should be clear to everyone. Yet it is not. The answer is no; yet there is an obligation to mask, even if the mask does not exist. In the face of such a grotesque thing, Parliament should rebel. And in fact, even the majority who support the Government of the best at a certain point had a whisper of dignity and doubt: can we go on with the obligation of a mask that does not exist? Then they gathered ten minutes, made two calculations and decided that yes, you can establish the obligation of a mask that does not exist. Now, the principle of reality, that what one sees and lives is superior to what one hopes within his own ideologies, is at the basis of human behavior and, even more so, at the basis of Western politics. But we have now come to esotericism, which has replaced science. The Italian Parliament imposes an obligation on things that do not exist: an obligation to mask, but the mask does not exist. It is the same that we saw with the obligation of an outdoor mask: it is the greatest scientific idiocy that ever existed. [[Applause]] The virus in the open air and in the sun dies, but the government of the best, with the CTS of the best, with the paid scientists, has decided the obligation to mask outdoors. Like the green pass to go and buy socks: if you don't have government authorization, you can't go and buy socks, you can't go and buy a book, you can't go and buy the baby's toy, because the government decided it was the best. The same that imposes the obligation of a mask that does not exist. The truth is that this government, which does not exist, is a government that has replaced logic with ideology and science with esotericism. We'll always be against these clowns. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u115	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 2,500/8, which has now been put on the agenda, deals precisely with the suspension for the most deprived persons of the penalty for remuneration for their work. This is a very important agenda, and I believe that many Members want to add their signatures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Very well, so it is signed by the entire Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u118	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal note. I wanted to tell my colleague that I always have dignity, not just right now, outside and inside this place. So you moderate words, because dignity is a serious thing and is not used for political propaganda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u121	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u122	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/9, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2,500/10.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u125	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, with regard to amendments 2.1500/10, 2.1500/11, 2.1500/12, 2.1500/13, 2.1500/14, 2.1500/15, 2.1500/16, 2.1500/17, 2.1500/18 and 2.1500/24, I would ask that they be transformed into a single agenda, which I am now submitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u126	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak. [[Comments]] I don't suspend anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u127	Mr President, since so many people have signed the agenda and - above all - use the formula: "Make a commitment on the part of the Government to assess on the basis of (...)" the opinion can be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u128	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u129	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.1500/10 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/19, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2,500/20.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u132	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I repeat my vote in favour and call on all my colleagues to reflect on the vote. First of all, what are we talking about? Only manifestations of recognized interest only in the white zone (including dynamic ones and, therefore, in motion). We did the Sanremo Festival indoors without a mask and we listened to President Mattarella say to Parliament: claim your role and express yourself on something. [[Applause]] Let me ask colleagues a question. If the government were to maintain the opposite opinion, is this Parliament not even able to express itself on the demonstrations that have been taking place in this country for hundreds of years during the war, with epidemics and under invasion? I'd say that's not the case. I would ask colleagues from all the groups, regardless of other positions and amendments, to put a hand on their consciences because when they return to their territories they will have to explain themselves. They are, in fact, demonstrations that take place throughout Italy and will have to explain to the citizens why, again this year, for the third consecutive year, certain demonstrations will not be made despite the fact that they are going towards reopening. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u135	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Mr Forza Italia's amendment, which does not change anything at all. By means of the measure, we have increased the capacity at the stadiums to 75% and in the places closed to 60%. The curve is in a descending phase and I think we should vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u138	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Group supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u141	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, on behalf of the whole Group, I am voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u144	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I support the amendment and vote in favour on behalf of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u147	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, I also support the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u148	When subscribers exceed a certain number, they contact the Subscription Offices. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/20, tabled by Senator Briziarielli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500/21.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u151	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u152	Mr President, if the commitment of the agenda is to consider whether it should be envisaged, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u153	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u154	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.1500/21 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/22, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/23 tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/25, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500/26.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u157	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 2,500/26 addresses the problem of transport between islands, major and minor, allowing all those who are already in a situation of difficulty in transport to have the same rights as those who live in the Peninsula with the green basic pass, so only with the buffer. The previous amendment has even less scope, because this extends the possibility for everyone to use air transport as well. Let me remind you that for air transport, there has been talk in the midst of a pandemic of EPA systems, mounted on all national carriers, which cut the presence of the virus by 99%. In this way you can completely filter the air with so-called vertical volumes so there are no problems in air transport keeping the FFP2 mask. As Senator Briziarelli also said, this is a problem that also involves Sardinia driving the League, do not forget it. The Sardinians are blocked for now, so let's give this possibility to the Sardinians, because for Sicily, thanks to the orders of the Sicilian governor and the Calabrian one, at least the transit on the Strait has been released. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this amendment and to give the possibility to those living in the islands to move freely, because the right to mobility is also guaranteed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u158	Senator Lorefice, the adoption of amendment 2,500/25 partially precludes or absorbs its own, so the suggestion that I give you is to endorse the amendment tabled by Senator Augussori.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u159	Mr President, I do not think it is absorbed, because if we read 2.1500/25, it limits the possibility of moving to and from the Italian islands to specific situations: for returning to their homes or in any case for justified reasons of health. The amendment I have tabled is broader, because it extends this possibility, allowing mobility between islands without imposing constraints, so what you say in my opinion does not respond to the truth, indeed the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u160	Amendment 2,500/25 was wider, as I had already said, because it also deals with the FFP2 mask. Senator Lorefice, I believe that the two amendments impact; I put it to the vote anyway: if it were to be approved, in the final coordination, you will find how to connect one device with the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u163	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the amendment tabled by Mr Lorefice.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u166	Drago (FdI). Mr President, our Group fully endorses and supports amendment 2,500/26, but I would also like a technical explanation with regard to amendment 8,34, to which we have proposed a rewording, which concerns the same subject, as well as amendment 8,35. I cannot find the 8.34 (text 2) which concerned the major and minor islands. I clearly support Mr Lorefice's amendment personally, but the whole Group, both for the larger islands and for the smaller islands, supports this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u167	I understand that everyone living in the islands wants to sign the amendment. If you send me a sheet with the list of subscribers, you write them down disciplinedly. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/26, tabled by Senator Lorefice and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/27, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/28, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/29, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/30, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,500/31, tabled by Senator Lorefice, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,500/32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u170	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u171	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u172	Mr President, if the formula is adopted by assessing the appropriateness of the measure, which is compatible with the limits of public finance, I am in favour of acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u173	Mr President, the government welcomes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u174	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.1500/32 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/33, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,500/35, tabled by Senator Lorefice, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2,500, tabled by the Commission, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u175	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u176	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u177	Senator Giarrusso tells me that he was wrong to vote, so we note the correction. Amendments 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,500 in the amended text. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G3.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.120, tabled by Senator Granato, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.121, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u180	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I would like to declare the vote in favour of amendment 3.0.121 which, like other precedents, recognizes to those who are suspended by the service the recognition of the food allowance, as for those who are suspended due to criminal proceedings. In other words, we demand that those who have been suspended for the imposition of health treatment enjoy at least the same treatment as those who are suspended for criminal proceedings, i.e. they are treated as possible criminals (possible, because criminal proceedings are still in progress). I think it would be appropriate for a minimum of fairness and humanity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u181	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.121, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u182	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.2 and 4.3. I am in favour of the G4.1 agenda. I am in favour of amendment 4.0.2 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u183	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u184	Amendment 4.1 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,500 in the amended text. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.4 and 4.6 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,500 in the amended text. Amendments 4.5, 4.7, 4.8 and 4.9 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G4.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4.0.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.2 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.3 has been withdrawn. Amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn or are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,500 in the amended text. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u185	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.3. On the agenda, Mr G6.1, I voted in favour of the commitment to assess the possibility of... the words "in compliance with the budgetary
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u186	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u187	I would ask Senator Augussori if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u188	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u189	Amendments 6.1 and 6.2 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2.1500 in the amended text. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.4 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. The amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn or are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,500, in the amended text. We proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be illustrated and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u190	Mr President, I am in favour of the G7.1 and G7.2 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u191	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u192	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7.1 and G7.2 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u193	Mr President, I am in favour of the G8.1 agenda, giving the commitment the words "to assess the possibility of """ and the words "in compliance with budgetary constraints" and taking into account the fact that the 1500-year telephone service is already operational. I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u194	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u195	I would like to ask Senator Malan if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the G8.1 agenda. Mr Malan (FdI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 8.33 (text 2) is improbable. The remaining amendments have been withdrawn or are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2,500, in the amended text. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.3 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.0.4, 8.0.9 and 8.0.10 have been withdrawn. Amendments 8.0.5 to 8.0.8 and 8.0.11 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.140, tabled by Senator Garnero Santanch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.240, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.340 is precluded. We need to recover an amendment on page 17 of the file. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,500/34, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u196	Mr President, on Amendment 9.2, I was told by the proposers that they would turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u197	I ask the first signatory, Senator Augussori.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u198	Yes, Mr President, we would like to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u199	I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Valente, to give her opinion on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u200	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of the clauses: "to assess the appropriateness" and "compatible with the constraints of public finance". On Amendment 9.3, on which the 5th Permanent Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, there is a call for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u201	I'll ask Senator Dell'Olio if he accepts the invitation to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u202	Mr President, I would like to ask for the agenda to be changed, but I would like to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u203	Let's finish the opinions first, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u204	Mr President, with the wording 'to assess the appropriateness of 'to', the opinion is in favour. I am against the G9.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u205	Senator Augussori accepted the wording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u208	OIL (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 9.3 concerned the possibility of carrying out antigenic swabs also in the parapharmacies. Right now there are rows of citizens in front of pharmacies to make swabs. It is our duty to give a concrete answer, as President Mattarella has also said, and thus to extend this possibility for citizens. The point is that, as emerges from the Session Report, in the previous decree-law, the Government had already undertaken to identify the most appropriate solutions to ensure the widest availability for citizens' access to the use of antigenic swabs. However, this was not achieved in the decree-law. What interests are we protecting? Someone says the pharmacies, because they're actually billing themselves high amounts with tampons. The contribution margin per buffer is actually generous. The pharmacies, however, are 20,000, while the parapharmacies are 5,000 and even if desired, the reduction in turnover could be equal to 18-20 percent. We're really not talking about much. The point is that the amendment in question was tabled in the previous measure by Mr Castaldi. I read from the Commission's report the Government's words: the technical report of the Ministry of Health does not indicate that all parapharmacies have access to the information system for the transmission of data to regional services. The opinion of the Ministry of Economy and Finance only spoke of potential burdens arising from any requests for connection to the health card system. Assuming that the parapharmacies have all the system of connection to the health card, since you can buy medicines over the counter (OTC) and medicines without prescription prescription (SOP), and that they still issue tax receipts talking in order to carry out the tax discharge, with amendment 9.3 it has been obvious to the only request of the Government, that is the potentially expensive part. The serious aspect is that the Government should not have given the Budget Committee an opinion against the absence of a technical report, because the technical report was there, it was asked to verify it and to go further and to check it. The Budgetary Commission must only express itself on the basis of whether or not costs exist. I want to hope that in the next decree-law the Government - which apparently is working - strong of the previous and the current commitment, can arrive at a solution that is not a palliative, but that allows the citizens to reduce these blessed files. I therefore welcome the rewording. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u209	Amendments 9.1 and 9.100 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G9.2 and G9.3 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.1, tabled by Senator Fregolent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u210	Mr President, I am against Amendments 10.1 and 10.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u211	Senator Castellone, on Amendment 10.0.2 the 5th Commission gave an opinion against it. Do you keep it?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u212	Mr President, we withdraw it and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u213	I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u214	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u217	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, the proposal provides for the extension of the network of laboratories that now carry out genetic surveys on Covid, including all microbiology and molecular biology laboratories that are not yet included and then for laboratories with a certain experience of more than three years to be accredited.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u218	Mr President, if you accept a wording aimed at making a commitment, you must consider whether it is appropriate to do so, the Government will accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u219	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.2 has been withdrawn. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Zaffini, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.0.1 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.0.2 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 10.0.3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u220	Mr President, I am against Amendment 12.1. With regard to agenda G12.1, the opinion was in favour of making the following commitment: "to assess the appropriateness of the programme and to add to the end the following: "compatible with Community and national procedures for the purchase of vaccines." I am in favour of the G12.2 agenda by making a commitment to the words: "to consider whether it is appropriate to do so." I call for the withdrawal of the agenda G12.3 because it cannot be precluded the possibility of the Government to intervene to counter deontologically unfair conduct. Finally, I would like to express my favourable opinion on the G12.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u221	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u222	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Malan, do you accept the proposed reformulation of agendas G12.1 and G12.2? Mr Malan (FdI). I accept them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G12.1 (text 2) and G12.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Malan, do you insist on voting on agenda G12.3?
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u223	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u224	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G12.3 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G12.4 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 12.0.1, 12.0.2 and 12.0.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u225	Mr President, I am in favour of the G13.1 agenda, and I would like to make the following comments: "to consider whether it is appropriate to do so and to add the following: "in keeping with the trend in the epidemiological curve". I give a favourable opinion on the G13.2 agenda, pressing the commitment to the words: "to consider whether it is appropriate to do so and to add the following: "in compliance with the evolution of the epidemiological curve" The opinion is also in favour of the G13.3 agenda, although the matter has already been dealt with in Decree-Law No 5 of 2022. I am in favour of Amendment 13.0.2 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u226	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u227	Amendment 13.1 is improbable Senator Malan, does it accept the rewording of agendas G13.1 and G13.2? Mr Malan (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G13.1 (text 2), G13.2 (text 2) and G13.3 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 13.0.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.2 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.0.4 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u228	Mr President, I am in favour of the G14.1 agenda, provided that the following formula is added to the commitment: I give a favourable opinion on the agenda for the G14.6. I am against Amendment 14.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u229	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u230	Senator Malan, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G14.1? Mr Malan (FdI). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u233	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 14.0.6 which has been put on the agenda for G14.6 and accepted by the Government (the Ministry had given the opposite opinion on the amendment), I would like to make it clear that this text is important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't insist too much, then maybe the opinion changes. You have to take things home. MAUTON (M5S). I would like to explain the agenda, which concerns the importance of the so-called long Covid, that is, the syndrome, which has been scientifically demonstrated, caused by the residues of Covid's disease. This agenda underlines the importance of diagnostic, instrumental and clinical performance for those affected, since follow-up is crucial. There is much talk of a directing booth, therefore of the creation of centers (one in each ASL) that coordinate these exams that would otherwise remain pages to themselves. It would be important to have a pool of specialists (pneumologists, cardiologists and more), who can follow these patients well. This is important and I think that the commitment made by the Government should then be put into effect.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u234	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G14.1 (text 2) and G14.6 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 14.0.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 14.0.2 tabled by Senator Giarrusso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 14.0.3, 14.0.4 and 14.0.5 have been withdrawn. Amendments to Article 15 of the Decree-Law have been declared inadmissible or withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u235	Mr President, I am against Amendments 16.1 and 16.17. I am in favour of Amendments 16, 2, 16, 7 and 16, 19. I give a favourable opinion on the G16.16 agenda, provided that the following formula is included in the commitment:
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u236	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u237	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 16.2 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 16.5 and 16.6 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16.7 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 16.8 to 16.15 have been withdrawn. Senator Garruti, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G16.16? GARRUTI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G16.16 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.17, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16.18 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16.19, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 16.20 to 16.0.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are described.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u240	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have no optimistic news from the State's General Accounting on the amendment on fragile workers tabled in Article 17 of the measure. At this point, it is perhaps better to suspend for about half an hour because we need to understand and clarify. I repeat what the President of the Republic said last week, when he claimed the centrality of Parliament and not of the General Accounting of the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no opposition, I welcome the proposal to suspend work. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.07 p.m. and resumed at 8.34 p.m.) Colleagues, on amendment 17.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which had been signed by all the groups, lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission, which is currently meeting. President Pesco asked me to suspend the sitting until 9 p.m. pending the decisive and necessary opinion of the Budget Committee. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 8.35 p.m. and resumed at 21.23 p.m.) I would like to say that the Budget Committee has delivered its opinion on Amendment 17.3; this opinion must now be drafted in writing so that it can be read. I therefore suspend the sitting for a further ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 21.24 and resumed at 21.40). I note that the 5th Commission opinion on amendment 17.3 (text 2) has been printed and is being distributed. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u242	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 17.3 (text 2), with the amendments requested by the Budget Commission, and against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u245	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 17.16 and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u246	Mr President, I am in favour of the G17.16 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u247	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u248	Amendments 17.1, 17.2 and 17.4 and 17.6 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.8 tabled by Senator La Mura and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 17.9 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 17.3 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u249	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u251	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will speak much more briefly than I would have liked, given the situation in our work, to express the satisfaction of the Lega Group for the adoption of this amendment in the Commission, which aims to restore full protection to the fragile and to defer the application of the interministerial decree which would have reduced the protected categories. It was a difficult and complex work in the Commission, a positive success, also thanks to the contribution of all the other Groups, expected by many people who fall into these unfortunate categories. It is regrettable to point out once again, unfortunately, that, after intensive and fruitful work in the Commission, when we are examining this House, we always find ourselves faced with a difficulty posed by the State Accounting Office, which tends to prevail over the will expressed by the representatives of the people. We have already said several times that we believe that this is not a good thing and the invitation I make to all the Groups is to find decisive and decisive solutions to prevent bureaucrats from controlling politicians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u254	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to stress the importance of this amendment, which concerns the category of fragile people, who, more than ever before, must not be abandoned. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague, Senator Catalfo, who invented this rule. [[Applause]] , in the context of a measure of a few months ago, which introduced the aid linked to the smart working that today is renewed and extended for the categories that need most in this country. Thank you to my colleague and to all those who will vote for the amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u255	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 17.3 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 17.10 to 17.15 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G17.16 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments 17.17 to 17.0.5 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.0.6 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 17.0.7 tabled by Senators Malan and Zaffini, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 17,0.8 to 17,0.13 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u256	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 18.0.1 (text 2). With regard to the coordination proposal C1, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u257	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u258	Amendments 18.1 and 18.2 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,500 in the amended text. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 18.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the Coord coordination proposal to be voted on simultaneously. 1 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u259	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u261	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am voting in favour and ask for permission to deliver the written text of my speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u262	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u263	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u265	[[Applause.]] Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues who, with their applause, encourage me to do what we should do here, namely explain the reasons for our votes, whether they are for or against. In fact, those who vote against should explain them in particular. Let me turn to the content of my speech. These days there is a departure from the reality of what is happening here, first in the Commission (on evening), and then in the House (this morning and this evening). We learn the news that is given - for the first time with the right emphasis, I must say - a little from all the media, which tells us that in other countries restrictions, obligations and all the various measures of contrast to the pandemic are suspended, reduced, if not cancelled; in some countries they have never even had them. Last summer Italy said it was like France. But Italy has immediately done much worse than France by imposing much heavier restrictions; those of France are lower than those of Italy and are withdrawing them; it seems that they will be completely revoked at the end of next month. The United Kingdom already had very limited restrictions and they are all being abolished, including even quarantine for positives. Denmark has abolished them, although it has a higher number of infections than in Italy. Sweden has never had any restrictions. In the United States, even the strictest states such as New York, are abolishing almost all restrictions; many other states have never introduced them. Texas has abolished everything since March last year; North Dakota and Florida have never had any restrictions. Then we come here to the unreal world of Parliament and the Italian Government, which introduces new, more stringent, more irrational, more ineffective ones. As Senator Zaffini recalled this morning in his speech in general discussion, Italy is one of the countries with the highest mortality, although it is the country that has the most serious restrictions; some questions should be asked. It would be enough to compare with other countries that have restrictions completely different from those of Italy, such as Sweden: if you go to see the curve with the various waves of contagions and deaths, naturally compared to the population, the trend is parallel; sometimes the curve of Sweden rises before that of Italy, sometimes after, but the trend is the same. The same thing is observed by comparing US states with opposing policies such as California and Florida, such as North and South Dakota, which have opposing policies among themselves, but have the same pattern. In the face of these measures, there is a real question as to what the point is. We have asked for a series of interventions from the beginning to the Government. The Government has been very generous in limiting the possibility of all Italians to carry out a series of activities; then there are the non-vacciners who are subjected to a series of additional restrictions, frankly unjustified to a large extent. But all Italians are forced, even those who have the infamous green pass, to spend the day taking out the certificate and being checked to carry out the activities of everyday life (entering shops, entering Parliament, getting on trains and means of transport). This is not a privilege, but it is also a damage to them: let's think about how many hundreds of thousands of people do this all day, that is, control others. This applies to companies and public institutions, with a waste of money and time also for those who have all the certifications of this world. What's the reason? Are the measures taken effective? No. Are they rational? No. Are they justified by a scientific foundation? No. Already the technical-scientific committee has made them of all colors, it has not right a forecast, it has said everything and the opposite of everything. And we learned a few nights ago that on several decisions it was kept completely in the dark. But then the government comes to tell us that it has followed the indications of the technical-scientific committee: it is not true. We are getting used to a government that is systematically lying to Parliament. This was done by Minister Hope, saying that he did not work with the World Health Organization to hide the scandalous absence of the pandemic plan in Italy; he told us that he had not intervened and then it turned out that he had intervened. This is repeated: in the press conference they were shown by the numbers and a few hours away the number of non-vacciners increased by two and a half million. The most incredible things happen. Then, we asked the Government not to exercise itself in limiting the freedom of Italian citizens as much as possible, causing serious damage to the Italian economy, particularly in the field of tourism, the exhibition sector and everything that is the organization of events, because thousands of companies close. Well, the state doesn't do what it should. We have been asking, for almost two years, to work for ventilation in schools and finally in this measure, also thanks to our amendment, we are talking about it. We have called for the strengthening of the means of transport, but it has not been done. We have asked for serious interventions on timely therapies for all other diseases, because it is always said that it is better to prevent than to cure, but it is also said that action must be taken promptly. Compared to Covid, who - he does not fail to remember - has killed 150,000 people, instead it can be expected. So, if Italy has a higher mortality rate than other countries, something has obviously been wrong. The watchful expectation, which in many cases was unanticipated, cost death; just as it cost the dead to have prevented - as Minister Hope did, even if not formally forbidding them, but putting many obstacles - from doing autopsies at the beginning of the pandemic. Evidently, for a long time, therapies have not been able to take into account a foundation of medical science for centuries, autopsies, to understand what had happened in the bodies of those who had died. It wasn't done. We have constantly inconsistent measures, with contrasts and contradictions. We have tabled an amendment in the Commission - it was rejected, having voted in favour only of the Brothers of Italy - which called for a very Europeanist thing, namely that the Italians had the same rights as the citizens of other European countries, but even outside Europe. It should be remembered that those who have done the two doses for more than six months, if they are Italian have lost their green pass, so they can no longer do anything, they cannot work for many categories of people, they cannot go to shops, trains and so on; if they are foreign, they can do so for another three months. Does that make sense? Where's the rationality? Where's the international profile? There are other incredible contradictions: non-vaccined blood donors are even urged - as are all and of course also vaccinated - to donate blood. So what's the point that there's no problem if they inject into my veins the blood of an unvaccined person, but that same person can't get on my own train, because who knows what he's up to, after doing the swab and, therefore, proving that he's not contagious? Well, in the face of this, we are voting against this measure and we are asking that the green pass be abolished and that what is needed by Italians is done: the therapies, the aeration of schools, a work of information and not propaganda, because propaganda - it is not information - has led skepticism in many Italians, obtaining the opposite result: the Italians are not being taken for fools and we are on their side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u266	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u268	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I only speak to declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the measure and ask for permission to hand over the full text of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u269	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u272	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, since I, too, ask for permission to hand over the written statement, I would like to ask Members to reflect on the decree that we are approving. It is precisely in today's newspapers that there is an appeal, an invitation, from all over the world to stop the current pandemic emergency phase. But it is not yet the time to give in to the desire for freedom. We have also seen this in the last few hours, here in this House, and also in the Commission. Certainly we have improved the text. Mr Augussori is right to claim the work of the Commission, his own and others, such as Senator Toninelli. We have made improvements to the measure. Certainly this is a decree that was thought at a completely different stage. We were on the eve of the peak of the fourth wave, so there was a whole series of measures and restrictions, such as the strengthened green pass. It is important, however, that Parliament now begins to reflect on the need to move towards a reform of our country's health care. We've seen how we've gotten into pandemic trouble. Then, with the Count and Dragon Governments, we resumed territorial medicine; we reinvested in public health. Attention: we are not yet at the end of the pandemic. Everyone wants the endemia, that this virus becomes an influence. The data tells us it's not like that yet. Certainly there has been and is the end of the state of emergency since 31 March, but I once again appeal to my colleagues, I appeal to politics. We have a different function, which is not to debate at the sports bar, each of us with our own ideas. We have to rely once again on science. Finally, on behalf of the Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali Group, I voted in favour of the conversion of the decree-law in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u273	Senator Rotolo, in authorizing you to hand over the text of your speech to the Presidency, I remind you that I had instructed you to wish Minister D'Inc well for his birthday. She should've done it to him, and he forgot. [[Applause]] I wish Minister D'Inc every success: that age should bring advice, because sometimes it is more convenient to return to the Assembly than to express an opinion against it on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u274	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u276	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group's draft law on conversion. I just remember that the green pass has allowed so many of our commercial activities to remain open. Without the green pass, this would not have happened. I would remind colleagues that they are sitting here in the Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u279	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too would like to join in the invitation to deliver a written text, but, having no written text, I cannot help but recall that this decree was born in mid-December, at the height of the pandemic. Thus, it served to give a round of lives and to give greater protection for what then occurred, namely an impressive peak of the contagions. Luckily, many intensive therapies have had a much lower growth than in the past, and this is also thanks to vaccines and we must remember that. As, however, there has been responsibility on the part of a large part of Parliament, also on the part of my Group, to acknowledge the need for this round of lives, we ask that, with equal fairness and equal responsibility, the other part of Parliament also acknowledge that a new phase is now beginning. A phase begins when certain restrictive measures need to be relaxed, starting with the super green pass, because we can finally see the light outside the tunnel. If the data of the last few weeks are confirmed, we can say that finally the emergent pandemic phase will be exceeded and we can be part of the ordinary management phase. That is our wish. As far as the decree-law is concerned, I can only mention briefly the improving action we have taken in the Commission, on issues such as those of fragile workers and air purifiers for schools, as well as the important agenda, also mentioned by our Parent Company, which has committed the Government to identifying the relaxation of restrictive measures starting from the overcoming of the super green pass. My group will therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u282	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, when I declare the 5 Star Movimento Group's vote in favour, I will make a brief speech and then hand the text over to the Presidency. I welcome the increased participation of Italian producers of masks who were initially marginalized in the acquisition of FFP2 masks, not only by competitions and the commissioner structure. We hope - even if we have some doubts - that smart working will be exploited, which is not a mobile phone put on a bottle of milk, as the Minister of Public Administration said, but it is much more. I remember you saved us during the pandemic of the past two disastrous years. [[Applause]] I confirm my Group's support for the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u283	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u284	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u285	DESSO (Misto-PC). Mr President, I do not turn in my speech because I take the opportunity to greet you and your colleagues. Thanks to this decree-law and many others I will be forced to a long period of forced rest. I will take this opportunity to devote myself to the territory, but above all I will use it to detoxify myself from these classrooms: an exercise which, even in the light of the future composition of this House and the cut-off of Members, I recommend to many of my colleagues. Apart from the jokes, this is not a measure that displeases me, which fortunately I have the necessary willingness to survive together with my family in the months when I will be forced to rest. I'll be able to pay the rent, too. Instead, I am concerned about the thousands of workers, teachers and employees who will not receive a euro and will be forced home with their families and children. [[Applause]] I am concerned because, in line with constitutional principles, they are doing nothing but a conscious and free choice. I am concerned, Mr President, as a man, about the social situation, but, as a Member of Parliament, I am very disappointed. I read the plate above it: On June 2, 1946 the Italian Republic was proclaimed by popular suffrage as the garrison of public freedom and certainty of civil progress. Now, thanks to this quest for freedom, especially personal choice, dozens of battles have been fought in this House over many years, as many of us here will remember, even by so many women who now mutter on my side. I remember the first on divorce, but also on abortion. And it was so many freedoms that had the only important thing at the centre for a complete democracy: the freedom of individual choice without creating harm to anyone. [[Applause]] Now there are so many more of these battles, ladies and gentlemen, President. While we are discussing green passes here today, in recent days we were talking about the freedom of men and women to have sexual relations with anyone, without being bullied, stalked, beaten or insulted in the street. We discussed the freedom, President, of having a colored world in which men of different ethnic groups, religions and cities of origin could have equal rights and equal duties. We discussed and even discussed the freedom to kill ourselves at the end of a journey of life, suffering and illness. The only freedom we can't discuss is to reject an American vaccine that today, given to the hand, is no longer useful for anything. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u286	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 221 of 24 December 2021 extending the state of national emergency and further measures for the containment of the spread of the epidemic by COVID-19" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u287	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-402.ana.u288	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.10 a.m.
