ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2561, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Aimi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u5	Madam President, today the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, ratifying the Headquarters Agreement signed in July 2021 by Italy and the European Forestry Institute, for the establishment, on national territory, of an office for urban forestation. The European Forestry Institute is an international organisation established in 1993 by some European States, has its head office in Finland, has 130 associated and affiliated organisations in 40 countries and carries out scientific research activities, providing support to national policies on forest issues. The proposal to open an Italian headquarters of the Institute, supported for a long time by the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, aims to strengthen Italy's international role in the protection and protection of forest and forest heritage. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed to approve the bill by the Assembly of the Senate of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u6	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. Pending the expiry of the sitting of 20 minutes from the beginning of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.42 p.m. and resumed at 4.53 p.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u9	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I rise to announce my Group's vote in favour of this bill of ratification and, at the same time, to the subsequent ones. I would also ask for permission to submit the full text of this speech and the texts relating to subsequent ratifications. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u10	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u13	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of this and the next three ratifications of the Democratic Party. I reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote on the ratification of the so-called Quirinal Treaty.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Senators of the Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidal Group and also the subsequent ratifications.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u19	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in announcing the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, I would like to stress briefly how we particularly like the Agreement between the Italian Government and the European Forestry Institute, as it follows the content of our draft law which we presented precisely to promote urban reforestation in the context of the wider theme of regeneration. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask for permission to submit the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u20	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u23	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this bill of ratification of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u26	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group on this draft ratification law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u27	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2560, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u29	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already adopted by the House of Members, which ratifys the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollution, which aims to reduce the use of certain substances harmful to human health and the environment, called persistent organic pollutants, chemical compounds with toxic properties that propagate into air, water and soil. The ratification of this Convention does not present profiles incompatible with national legislation or European law and other international obligations assumed by our country. In conclusion, Mr President, it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u30	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators Garavini, Alfieri and De Petris confirm their previous favorable voting intentions.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u33	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would simply like to say that these are commitments that have been made to protect health and the environment, which is why, as a group, we shall vote in favour of the draft ratification law. I would also like to vote in favour of subsequent draft ratification laws, with the exception of the ratification of the so-called Quirinale Treaty, on which Mr Craxi will speak. Announcement that I submit the texts of the explanations of vote on this bill and on the following. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u36	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we believe it is important to clarify that as the Lega-Salvini Premier-PSd'Az Group we share the noble objectives of the Convention to protect the health of our fellow citizens and the environment, the primary objectives for a civilised country. We therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u39	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, like Movimento 5 Stars, we have always shown great sensitivity to environmental issues. The act of ratification under consideration highlights the improved discipline of the one linked to the so-called POPs (permanent organic polylutants). Therefore, by improving national legislation as well, we have extended the protection of the health of all citizens. Therefore, the explanation of vote of the Movimento 5 Stars is definitely in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u40	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u41	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1377. The rapporteur, Senator Porta, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u42	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is with a certain emotion and with great satisfaction that I summarize the report and therefore the issues that are being ratified. Just this morning, the Senate hosted the presentation of a valuable book by our former ambassador of the Dominican Republic Andrea Canepari, who speaks about the historical Italian presence in that region. The coincidence with today's ratification seems to me to be very important. We are talking about the ratification of the Agreement on cinema co-production between the Italian Republic and the Government of the Dominican Republic, done in Rome on February 14, 2019, aimed at intensifying the cinema and audiovisual relations between Italy and the Caribbean Country, constituting a valid regulatory instrument of incentive to Italian co-producer in the planning of cinematographic and audiovisual works with Dominican producers. All this will have significant repercussions on the entire film industry, allowing co-productions realized to be considered as national works of our respective countries. Also this bill of ratification does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, nor with the European legal order and other international obligations signed by our country. For these reasons, I propose to the House that it be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u43	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi and Lorefice confirm their Group's vote on the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u46	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I declare the vote in favour of the Lega Salvini Premier Group - Sardinian Action Party limited to this and the next draft ratification law.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u47	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2342-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The working rapporteur, Senator Craxi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u49	Mr President, the draft law in title, already adopted by the Senate last January and amended by the Chamber of Deputies only in relation to the financial profiles, following a binding opinion of the Budget Committee of the other branch of Parliament, returns to the third reading for final approval. As pointed out in the first examination, the Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, nor with the European legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. For these reasons, it is proposed that the House approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u50	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. Articles 1 and 2 have not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rule 4 has not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Lucidi and Lorefice confirm their previous voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u51	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2632, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u52	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the Treaty signed in November 2021 by the Italian Republic and the French Republic for enhanced bilateral cooperation, called the Quirinal Treaty. The aim of the Treaty is essentially to put an end to a season marked by tensions and contrasts, for some opposing interests, giving rise to an instrument of institutionalized dialogue; in this way contributing to that action to relaunch the process of European integration through the formation of a Franco-Italian dimension to be placed alongside a long and proven Franco-German partnership, strengthened last with the signing in January 2019 of the equally famous Treaty of Aachen. This bilateral cooperation covers in particular foreign affairs, security and defence, European affairs, migration policies and the fields of justice and home affairs, and economic, industrial and digital cooperation, social development, space, education, youth and cross-border cooperation. The Treaty does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u53	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u54	Madam President, on 26 November 2021 the so-called Quirinale Treaty between the Italian Republic and the French Republic for enhanced bilateral cooperation between Italy and France was signed in Rome. Today this Assembly is called - as my colleague recalled - to the ratification of this Treaty, after the passages in the parliamentary committees and the approval in the Chamber last May with the vote against by Brothers of Italy. The importance of this agreement is not under discussion here. Indeed, the Agreement is certainly very important and for this - I would say - it is likely to have serious consequences. What we want to stress is a lack of method and some potential defects and also risks - I would say - of merit. Meanwhile, it is worth remembering that the idea of the Treaty was born in a bilateral summit of 2017, during the then PD Government of Gentiloni, and the Italian left has never stopped, since then, to become spokesperson of the French interests in Italy, while for Brothers of Italy the national interest is priority. [[Applause]] In fact, while the Quirinale Treaty was being built, France tried to implement unilaterally, without any legal basis (as the chronicle has shown), to what we call the pirate Treaty of Caen, which would have taken away precious territorial waters, of course in favour of France; A treaty which has fortunately never been ratified by Parliament - as you know - also thanks to the Brothers of Italy, who has always denounced it and strongly contested it. First of all, this is a question of method, because the signing of the Treaty was preceded by non-transparent or even secret negotiations, and in any case without a preliminary discussion in Parliament. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty has been signed in absolute secrecy, should we say so? Then it was brought into the Commissions without particular emphasis, as if it were a marginal act or mere formality. However, this is not the case, because the Treaty provides for important commitments on equally important matters. I mention only a few - even for those who are not listening - such as the space part, which NATO has identified as the fourth domain (and therefore an important area), but also matters such as industry, defence and climate policy provisions, going through the issue of borders - I stress this - and migration issues - I stress this - to arrive at the non-marginal, economic issues of trade, which are also largely covered by this Understanding, particularly Article 5. The French President Macron, at the signing ceremony of the Treaty to the Quirinale, seems to have pointed out that this Treaty filled the absence of an Italian-French agreement similar to the 1963 Elysée Treaty, agreed between Paris and Berlin. President Macron forgot... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u55	Colleagues, I ask you to lower the tone of your voice a lot, because I myself find it difficult to hear Senator Rauti.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u56	Please, Senator Rauti, continue. RAUTI (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. President Macron forgot to point out what appears, however, today even more, as an anomaly of which everyone seems to have forgotten, but we do not: we refer to the Treaty of Aachen, a sort of iron treaty that France signed with Germany in 2019, in particular on the issues of defence; and he did so - let us remember - whistling away Italy, the repercussions on Italy and also on the rest of the other European countries. That too must be said. Dear colleagues, the feeling is that in Paris you like to receive white delegations and establish the rules of the game. It is also for this reason that at least it is legitimate to doubt that Italy will not obtain great advantages from the subscription of this enhanced cooperation. The supporters of the Italian-French partnership, the fanatics, those whom someone with a neologism called the "Dracron" (it is clear that neologism is born), argue instead that it is a political instrument to overcome disagreements at European bilateral level. It is a treaty marked by the desire to strengthen the core of the European Union, thus building a strategic alliance between Paris and Rome. I mean, a lot of stuff looks like a bit of a dialect. Brothers of Italy, on the other hand, believes - and I come to the questions of merit - that the Franco-Italian Treaty determines - and I do not use terms - a subordination of our nation to France. [[Applause]] in extremely important areas, such as those I have already mentioned - while some were chatting - but I also add in the financial, agri-food and, of course, political fields. However, the enhanced cooperation with France, which we have signed, coincides with a series of instrumental claims on borders that have no historical and legal basis. A dramatic example is the long-standing and unresolved issue of Mont Blanc, on which France declares, as if nothing were happening, that it would lose the copy of the maps annexed to the Treaty of Turin of 1860 that it defined, in an unequivocal way, what the border line was. It's good to remind her of these things. So, ladies and gentlemen, it continues to surprise us, not only that such an important treaty has been studied and concerted in a non-transparent situation, without a real political and parliamentary debate, but also that this happens in the almost total silence of the media. On the contrary, we cannot hide some of our concerns, such as immigration commitments, because the bilateral agreement between Italy and France risks once again being penalised for our country, which must become a refugee camp and the agreements of Malta teach something. [[Applause]] We are also very concerned about the repetition of the conduct of some French companies that have acquired - at favorable conditions - important productive realities of our country such as Parmalat, Galbani, Invernizzi, Vallelata, Locatelli, to name but a few, but I could continue, proceeding then in some cases to the relocation of the activities, with a great negative fall on the Italian employment induced, and we cannot be disinterested of this. I should like to add, and I shall conclude, what has happened and could happen again in the banking sector, where some French institutions have even shopped in Italy, as the cases of BNP Paribas, which has acquired the National Labour Bank, and Crédit Agricole, which has acquired Cariparma and Banca Popolare FriulAdria and, unfortunately, also in this case, ladies and gentlemen, I could continue. Finally, how do we vote for this enhanced cooperation with regard to the deep differences in the Libyan crisis, with France not being scrupulous in overcoming Italy and going against the interests of our country? I don't know how you're gonna put it. But one thing I know and we know, one thing is certain today and, know it, it will always be certain: Brothers of Italy will watch over this and other treaties, will always protect and will never give up in front of any form of transfer of national sovereignty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u57	Senator Porta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u58	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty we are about to ratify certainly has a value which is not rhetorical to call historic. This is not, in fact, a normal treaty, like some of those we have just ratified, of course with all the respect that this House has for all the international agreements that are ratified. The Treaty under discussion is certainly a much more demanding one, as is shown by the fact that we have before us a text comprising 12 chapters, which practically address all the main issues of the international political agenda: foreign policy, defence policy, space policy, industrial policy, agricultural policy and public administration. It is also accompanied by an action plan which identifies some medium-term objectives on these 12 chapters. It is a treaty which also takes on a special role for our countries and for the whole of the European Union because of the solemn way in which it has been signed. You will remember that it was signed by President Macron and President Draghi, under the auspices of the President of the Republic Mattarella, who I would like to thank for having been from the beginning a careful supporter for a full subscription of the points defined in the Treaty. It is a Treaty that constitutes a qualitative leap in relations between Italy and France, countries that we want, we know and define more and more complementary for history, for cultural relations, of which perhaps Italy and France are the most authoritative players in the European context, but complementary also from the economic point of view. I would like to remind you that France, after Germany, is our second trading partner and that, depending on the years, we continue to be France's third or second economic partner. We also have common strategic interests: we are both founders of the European Union and NATO, we are part of the G7 and the G20. We are also countries with a strong and natural Mediterranean propensity. They are political dimensions that see us having common interests, which have not always given rise to forms of cooperation or co-ordinated views in recent years. But it certainly does not help to look at these episodes of the past to build a future relationship. I would also like to remind you that if the Next generation EU has been adopted with the characteristics and criteria we know, which, among other things, have allowed our country to benefit from a contribution of more than 200 billion euros, this is the result of the strong commitment made by Italy, France and also by Germany at European Union level. Thanks to this commitment, obstacles that seemed insurmountable have been overcome. It is therefore an important treaty which - it should be remembered - does not only have bilateral value, indeed I would say that its characteristic is its very strong European dimension. A dimension, as we all know, upset in recent months by the crisis in Ukraine, which has changed and upset the scenario and which calls us all to new responsibilities. We need a qualitative leap in the process of European integration and a third stage in the process of integration after that of the founding fathers, after that of Maastricht and the euro. Today we need a step forward and further integration to give greater cohesion and unity to the European Union. We know that we have a common foreign policy, but bilateral relations between countries often overlap, not always organically, with such a foreign policy. I think that is precisely the challenge and the greatest bet that we have in front of us with this Treaty, but a commitment that presupposes a common direction and direction. We know that these things are not at all obvious because the European Union is made up of 27 countries and on each of these issues it is necessary to find synthesis, consensus and cohesion. We therefore need coordinated action and Italy and France must, through this Treaty, be the protagonists of such coordination. We need a boost that gives the European Union higher levels of integration, which are the sine qua non for speaking with one voice and acting as one force. The Treaty of Quirinale between Italy and France, signed on 26 November, rightly created, even outside the borders of our two countries, a great interest precisely because it can prelude to an expansion and deepening of bilateral relations, as well as to recalibrate balances at European level and to open a new era of coordination between the two countries in bilateral and European relations. I remembered the strong trade ties that link Italy to France: just think that in 2019, the last year before the pandemic, bilateral trade amounted to as much as 80 billion euros and that Italy is the third supplier of France and the third export market for that country. These are two economies with integrated production systems, with 1,700 Italian companies active in France and 3,000 French companies present in our country. France is the main foreign investor in Italy, but Italian investments in France are also important and important. The Treaty therefore creates a dense network of informal relations at several levels between different agencies, including an important annual intergovernmental summit, a series of ministerial forums, permanent consultations, joint training programmes and exchanges of officials. The areas of cooperation include foreign affairs, security, defence, European affairs, justice and home affairs, migration, culture, research and economic and industrial cooperation, especially in the field of space and innovation. This may not automatically lead to permanent strategic alignment, but will create permanent institutional channels through which conflicts can also be managed, if any, and above all to define joint actions. In essence, the objective is a stronger partnership between France and Italy in Europe. There are three European policies where French coordination is the most important: eurozone governance, migration governance and greater strategic autonomy in foreign and security policy. In a nutshell, the Quirinale Treaty is an act of far-sighted diplomacy that should give greater stability to a complex political relationship, expanding economic and cultural ties and pushing towards an approach in foreign policy, all strengthening the strong European identity of our countries. All this is done to ensure that the successors, when they are there, of President Macron and President Draghi may also be less aligned and ignore certain consultation mechanisms, but certainly with greater difficulty. I assure you that in the volatile world of international relations this is an uncommon insurance policy. Finally, I would remind you that at regional level the new agreement recognises the close interconnection between France and Italy, through the common Mediterranean basin, to promote the sustainable use of energy and green investments in North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. Let's also remember that in these days the President of the Republic is located in those Regions of the Country. With this Treaty, the new Franco-Italian engine will be essential to address some of the main issues on the agenda, including strengthening European sovereignty and responding to the climate emergency. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a few words about the appalling news. In reading the Treaty, in its premise, I have seen reference being made to cooperation in the Alpine sector, to our mountains and to the profound changes that the climate emergency is causing. I believe that this Treaty also has value in terms of the future of the environment, and with this reference I would like to express, on my behalf, the Democratic Group and the House, my condolences to the seven victims, family members and five missing persons of the Marmolada disaster, hoping that such tragedies will no longer be repeated. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u59	Thank you, Senator Porta. Of course, the mourning is of the whole House, for a tragedy that has struck not only our citizens, but all those who were at the top of the Marmolada. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u60	Madam President, I repeat very briefly, simply to thank my colleagues for the constructive debate and to thank the offices, both the Senate and the Government, for having had important exchanges and considerable support. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that this is the first time we have been in the Chamber with a ratification session since the election of the new President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Migration, Stefania Craxi [[Applause]] , which I greet and thank for having entrusted me with the report of a very important treaty.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u61	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u62	Madam President, I would just like to say a few words about the debate that has just taken place. The Quirinale Agreement does not in any way concern the definition of maritime or land borders. Just to put it to the record and leave things black and white, the way they're written.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to outline the agenda for the first time, signed by all the members of the Fratelli d'Italia Group. As has already been pointed out during the general debate, this Treaty, the so-called Quirinale Treaty, brings together agreements between Italy and France in various areas and, among them, in the field of justice. In particular, Article 4 of the Treaty, which is referred to as 'Migratory policies, justice and home affairs', stipulates the joint commitment - I quote - to deepen cooperation between the respective judicial authorities and to ensure constant coordination in accordance with the prerogatives of the judicial authorities. Well, as you know, on 29 June last, the French judicial authority, the Paris Court of Appeal, decided to deny the extradition requested by Italy of ten communist terrorists refugees in France after committing very serious crimes in Italy and having left behind an endless trail of blood. There was an expectation on the part of the victims and of all Italians, who have not forgotten what the years of lead have meant for Italy, what it meant for Italy to imperish for years and years, for decades, of murderous criminals who put themselves behind false political justifications while committing serious common crimes (rapes, murderers, kidnappings in person), what it meant for Italy, for our homeland, to go through those truly difficult years. It was therefore hoped that, thanks also to the commitments made by President Macron towards Italy and the arrests finally carried out in 2021, after decades of impunity in Paris, we could close this tragic page of the national history of the lead years, obviously through the application of justice. On the other hand, unfortunately, many years later, the Mitterrand doctrine prevailed once again, which tries to justify these crimes in some way behind a false screen of their politically-inspired nature. Moreover, from what is learned from the press and from the comments of these days, it seems that the French judicial authority has even called into question, referring to the European Convention on Human Rights, the fact that Italy has guaranteed a fair trial for these accused. Well, there is no guaranteeing country as much as Italy; there is no trial that respects the rights of the accused more than it does in Italy; above all, with regard to the humanitarian question (or such claim), since we also cite the precarious health conditions of some of these defendants, there is no penitentiary system that guarantees endless rights to prisoners such as the Italian one. It is really ridiculous to think that in France someone imagines that a prisoner in serious health in Italy does not have all the protection that humanitarian principles recognize to people in these conditions. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this very Government has also recognized the detention of dangerous mobsters with health conditions certainly not as serious as those that seem to concern at least one of the arrested in Paris. It therefore sounds paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that on the one hand France wants to sign with Italy a commitment to greater cooperation in the field of justice and at the same time want to continue to guarantee impunity to these criminals. [[Applause]] It is clear that Italy must react in the strongest possible way to this injustice. It is clear that, in compliance with the judicial authority and the principle of the division of powers, Italy cannot confine itself to a simple manifestation of disappointment or dissension, but must firmly pose an essential issue. Criminal refugees in France must not enjoy any impunity, they must not enjoy any immunity. Those applauses in that Chamber, when the Court of Appeal of Paris read the sentence, are an outrage to the entire Italian people and to the feeling of justice not only of the victims, but of all Italians who believe in the Italian judicial system, even with its limitations and its defects (because of perfection everything is there and of perfect nothing can be considered). Of course, however, Italy has nothing to learn in terms of guarantees from a country like France. [[Applause]] Then we will talk about what France does with regard to immigrants arriving through Ventimiglia, about how France behaves towards people who would be entitled (that is) to humanitarian aid and who instead rejects even if they are minor. For these reasons we have proposed the G100 agenda and we trust that the Government can To welcome him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u65	Mr President, I rise to explain the G101 agenda. I believe that this swindle of the day comes from an act of political responsibility. In the face of the decision of the French appeal court, which concerns the refusal to extradite a whole series of people who have committed very serious crimes, it is the political responsibility of this Parliament and the Government to take a position, obviously within the powers entrusted to them. With this agenda we ask the Government to commit itself to doing everything diplomatically useful and necessary so that the action of the Government, also of the French Government (because we know that, however, the proxy has a political derivation), can lead to a decision to accept the request for extradition. Extradition that is not only sacrosanct from the legal point of view, but I believe, weighing the words I say, ethically duty-free, by all those institutions that must assist the relatives of the victims and all those who have suffered suffering because of the very serious acts of crime, that we cannot forget just because it has been so many years. [[Applause]] This is a form of respect we owe to the victims and relatives of the victims. To say that a defendant, a convicted person, because he is such, is in difficult health conditions does not mean that he cannot suffer the right judgment and the right penalty. Let's remember that those who carry out the profession of lawyer are taught that every lawyer must assist his client in order to be defended in the best possible way, but also in order to receive the right penalty. On the one hand, therefore, we have a moment of political responsibility, which takes shape in this agenda, which aims to respect the legality, decisions and convictions that these subjects have already suffered in our country, in respect of the deaths, suffering and blood shed in those terrible years. This is also an act of international political maturity. We cannot talk about the European Union, in fact, of European integration, if we do not respect the principles contained in this Treaty, of international cooperation, also with regard to the surrender of the people who have committed these very serious crimes. We cannot, therefore, think that this agenda will be allowed to go this way, simply as a letter on paper. This is a political act that must be weighed internationally. Therefore, we ask the Government to promote these actions, of course from a diplomatic point of view, because we know very well that French judicial action is an autonomous action. By assuming the responsibility for what I say, I repeat that we cannot think that, within a sentence of a judicial body, even if of a country absolutely civil as France can be, the refusal to extradition can be justified simply because the terms, the numbers of articles of the laws that are intended to apply are not indicated. This is because we know very well that judges must judge according to law and that it is the task of judges to know the law and therefore to apply it. [[Applause]] That is what we are asking for on the agenda. We simply call for compliance with international rules, standards and relations, but above all - what is more important - respect for people killed by people I cannot even define people because they are only criminals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u66	Mr President, the G103 agenda that we are presenting has a very simple ratio: we are closing and we are going to adopt an important treaty such as the Quirinale Treaty. However, we cannot overlook the fact that there are open disputes between our country and France, which, taking into account the general context, may seem secondary, but which have their value and importance. In this particular case, France has a cartography that places Mont Blanc and about 72 hectares within its territory, which we know does not correspond to the truth. We therefore ask, with very simple words, that the Government undertake to work towards the definitive resolution of the issue of the border dispute between Italy and France which has been dragging for seventy years, having as its firm point the maintenance of the full sovereignty of the Italian State on the areas of Mont Blanc [[Applause]] in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Turin of 1860 and the subsequent Convention of 1861. There would then be another part of it - when the time comes to ratify it in Parliament we will talk about it - about the Caen Agreement concerning territorial waters, or rather disputed waters between Italy and France. However, the principle is that if you cooperate you must do so starting from the settling of disputes and open disputes, as in this case, for too long. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u67	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u68	Mr President, I support the adoption of all the agendas that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u69	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G100, I would like to propose a small change in the premise: replacing the words 'although' on 4 July 2022 with the words 'in view of the fact that on 4 July it is ', because it has happened, it is a good thing, so let us make a better sense of the text. In addition to this reformulation, the Government accepts the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u70	I ask Senator Balboni if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the G100 agenda. Balboni (FdI). Of course, Mr President, it is only a matter of drafting, it is fine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G100 (text 2), G101, G102 (text 3) and G103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u73	Garavini (IV-PSI). Madam President, Italy and France together, for a stronger Europe. This is the vision behind the Quirinale Treaty, a treaty that marks the transition from traditional bilateral relations to an enhanced cooperation agreement between Rome and Paris. A treaty of historical significance, because for the first time our country establishes a broad political alliance with a friendly country, in order to create a strategic collaboration that gives greater strength to the actions of the two countries and helps to give a driving force to the processes of integration of the European Union. So it is an agreement that strengthens Europe and does not weaken it. The Treaty sees us united on matters which are right for the future of the Union, from foreign policy to defence, from economic cooperation to industrial cooperation. Subjects which, until some time ago, could hardly have been the subject of prior consultations, because they seem to be linked to competitive issues or opposing spheres of interest, now become the subject of comparison and preliminary elaboration, so as to build consensus not only bilaterally, but also Europeanly, on the most diverse issues, for example on innovative investments in space, artificial intelligence or cloud data storage. Thanks to the Treaty of Quirinale, Italy and France can elaborate common demands to be carried out with greater determination. These are all objectives that are pursued through a permanent dialogue. The Quirinale Treaty establishes channels of constant intercourse, through which to define common positions and prevent possible conflicts on crucial issues not only for our two countries, but for the whole of the European Union. This is why, despite the fact that it is an agreement between two individual Member States, it is not opposed to the Union itself, but rather strengthens it, because it complements and amplifies the process of integration and, indeed, greater Italian-French coordination can make a difference and can contribute to the achievement of important European policies. Europe has been able to react well to the difficult situations it has had to face in the last three years, first the Covid, then the war. The European Union has been able to put in place united and united responses, managing to overcome vetoes and providing for solutions on which there had been for years an obtuse opposition. Europe is now faced with further very complex problems, from energy to migratory pressures on the border, and in this sense the Franco-Italian agreement can be a useful tool to facilitate solutions, a driving force for the process of European integration. Among other things, the interests of Italy and France have never been as convergent as in this period: our two economies have integrated production and cultural systems, we count 1,700 Italian companies active in France, 3,000 French companies operating in Italy, over 420,000 Italians living and working in France, a community that is perfectly integrated and is an active part of the local society. Italy is the third largest supplier of goods in France, France is the largest foreign investor in Italy. These are all aspects that show how useful it is to create a further positive synergy between Rome and Paris, also because it is much better to settle any divergences upstream, with a permanent conciliation mechanism, rather than recriminate ex post on the failure to achieve results. For this reason we warmly welcome the signing of the Quirinale Treaty, whose definition was not at all taken for granted and for which we must express a warm thanks to both President Mattarella and President Draghi: it is only thanks to their patient work of re-sewing international relations that an agreement has been resumed and it has been concluded after it had been abruptly interrupted in 2019, when Paris had called the French ambassador to Italy following the diplomatic incident with the yellow vests. The fact that we are here today to vote on this ratification well symbolizes how much Italy has managed to move on from the phase of the most acute populism represented by the government of that time. Thank you, therefore, to President Mattarella and President Draghi for having restored the best relations with the traditional allies and for creating the basis for a treaty intended to further intensify the good relations between Italy and France. The Quirinal Treaty is not an agreement against anyone. The pact signed between Rome and Paris is the initial core of enhanced cooperation also in relations with other European allies, for example from Germany. The strongly Europeanist approach of Chancellor Scholz represents the best premises for possible collaborations and the Franco-Italian engine has the potential to integrate the Franco-German axis and tackle together some of the main issues on the agenda. Italy, in cooperation with France and Germany, can play a leading role in European policy. The recent trip to Kiev by Draghi along with Macron and Scholz testifies to this and has a strong symbolic value in this sense. It is very good that these days we are also working on the definition of an action plan with Berlin, which is characterised by equally important content and objectives. In short, Madam President, the Quirinale Treaty is an opportunity for Italy, it is an act of far-sighted diplomacy that is good for Italy, it is good for France and it is good for Europe as a whole. Italy and France are founding countries of the Union; with the Treaty of Quirinale we take a further step: from founding countries we become builders of the future of Europe and it is a good thing that so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u76	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, representatives of the Government, just a few words on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies to say that we vote politically on the Treaty of Quirinale between Italy and France. We do not make mythologies, we have not long believed in fairy tales and we know that Italy and France have not always worked together, even recently. If we think, for example, of the Libyan instability of today and look at the paths that have characterized the life of Libya in recent years we know - and all the most elementary observers of geopolitics know this - that Italy and France have interpreted two different parts in comedy: France has mostly helped the Government installed in Tobruk with General Haftar, while Italy has helped the Government of Tripoli supported by the United Nations; the first in tune with a part of the Arab countries and Egypt, we in harmony with Turkey and Qatar. All this has led to an effect: when Italy and France go in scattered order, Europe counts for nothing and Italy and France individually taken count even less, that is, zero. In fact, in the Libyan scenario we are irrelevant, but not only we Italians, even the French are. Slim consolation, indeed for me it is not a consolation at all, because I would like Italy and France to go forward together in the context of the Mediterranean and be a united player that counts, while unfortunately in the Mediterranean today we see that Turkey and Russia give much more cards than they did until ten years ago. This is for many reasons, including the fact that the Americans have come a little less in their traditional interest in the Mediterranean. Having said that, with this operation we try to overcome the contradictions in which we have sometimes been imprisoned ourselves to find strong points of union between Italy and France. France with Germany and - I add - with Italy: this is the great historical approach of some leaders, such as those of the first Republic. Allow me to add someone very dear to me: Carlo Azeglio Ciampi has always worked following this comet and the same thing did Giorgio Napolitano. Germany, France and Italy are the European locomotive, because it is clear that Europe must move forward. Colleagues, this Treaty is going in the right direction, so it is an honour to those who have signed it and we are voting for it firmly. I want to add something. The colleague of Brothers of Italy - I do not remember exactly who spoke - has made considerations, which I largely share, about deep dissatisfaction - it is a euphemism to speak of dissatisfaction, because it is something more, it is indignation - that we have on issues that are not closed, that concern groups of terrorists who must respond to their actions before the Italian judiciary and that are in fact protected because of an ancient doctrine, the Miterrandian one, in France. Well, all this can lead to a deep dissent on our part, and it determines it, but it cannot in any way diminish the importance of this Treaty, nor can it make us desist from a strong support for a preferential channel with a great country like France, which I believe must be increasingly linked in a relationship of preferential friendship with Italy. I mean the last thing. Governments pass, but countries remain. Today France has a President, tomorrow it will have another President, yesterday it had another President; the same applies to Italy. But all this is part of the political contingency. Acts such as the Treaty of Quirinale bind peoples in a shared destiny, regardless of who pro tempore governs individual countries, and this must lead us to understand the importance of the moment we live. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u79	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Mr Casini, my colleague from Fratelli d'Italia was the same and I thank him for his appreciation of the arguments I thought I had put forward by presenting our agenda, which was accepted by the Government, which, of course, is greeted by the whole of the Fratelli d'Italia Group with great support. However, for the very reason that you pointed out earlier, we will vote against this Treaty, because the question is precisely what you put, Mr Casini: the role of France, the role of Germany, the role of Italy. The Europe we know today was born around these three poles. We are founding partners of Europe, with equal dignity, together with France and Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, the real issue that arises today on the ratification of this Treaty is precisely this: what is the role that Italy is given in relation to France and Germany? France and Germany have concluded an iron treaty, the Treaty of Aachen, with which they have undertaken to agree first among themselves the line to be taken within the European Union. Italy was placed in an ancillary and subordinate position. Then we of Brothers of Italy - as you know, colleagues, Brothers of Italy always have exclusively as a point of reference first of all the national interest - wonder why, when Italy signs such an important Treaty with France, it does not put on the mat the theme of the role that Italy must assume towards France and Germany. We would have liked the subject of the Treaty of Aachen to be raised before we signed this Treaty. Europe cannot walk on two legs, but it must walk on three legs [[Applause]] Italy is a founding partner of the European Union and has nothing less than France and Germany, at least for our irreplaceable strategic role in the Mediterranean. So why are we ratifying a treaty today that establishes our subordinate role vis-à-vis France and Germany and, on the contrary, transforms France into the guarantor of Italy vis-à-vis Germany? The things that matter are decided by Germany and France, after which France comes to explain what the line is. It can't and doesn't have to work like this. Brothers of Italy understand that the subordination to France is almost in the DNA of the Democratic Party, of the center-left, of the left-wing democratic tradition of which today President Casini is interpreter, and in general of the other part of the hemicycle: it is enough to see the relationship that the Democratic Party has always had with Macron and with France in general. There is no one among us who has the Legion of Honor [[Applause]] ; I believe instead that the MPs of the Democratic Party with the Legion of Honor count to dozens between Chamber and Senate. That is a difference, ladies and gentlemen: we do not have the Legion of Honor; you do. When you have to choose between national interest and "good relations" with France, choose the second. We don't. You, in the face of operations such as that of Lactalis, for example, which bought the entire Italian food chain, have had a benevolent and condescending attitude. We don't. When France nationalized its shipyards to prevent Fincantieri from buying them, you sketched them out. We are not, dear colleagues of the Democratic Party. When BNP Paribas - as my colleague Mrs Rauti mentioned earlier - bought important Italian banks, it was good for you once again. Woe to the world, however, in case of the purchase of a French company by an Italian company; in this case the barricades were raised, because the French their national interest can do it very well. We should learn from them, as well as from Germany of course [[Applause]] The same story Stellantis ended as it ended and we know very well that also in this case the role as protagonist was certainly not reserved for the Italian part. That is why we are convinced that, if a treaty were to be made, it would have to be put on a different footing. As Mr Casini mentioned earlier, in fact, Italy's national interest was certainly not that of France in the Libyan affair. What happened in Libya against the Gaddafi regime did not happen for humanitarian reasons or to defend civil rights; it happened because France was annoyed by the privileged economic relationship that the Italian Government - of which you were a member at the time, Mr. Undersecretary - had managed to establish with the Gaddafi regime, which was certainly not democratic, like so many others with whom the West does not have problems maintaining and encouraging economic relations. Even today France supports a part, which is not the part of freedom and democracy: it supports General Haftar, who is certainly no less dictatorial and more democratic than Gaddafi. As for migration policy, how can we hide the unqualified behavior - in this case yes - in violation of the basic humanitarian rights that France holds in Ventimiglia, sending back even minors, qualifying them for adulthood, even if they are obviously thirteen, fourteen and fifteen years old children, or sending back migrants taking off their shoes? If Italy did such things, what would happen? [[Applause]] The UN would come if we behaved like France does to migrants trying to cross the Italian-French border. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting no for all these reasons and above all because the true bipolarism that is being affirmed, not yet in this House - reflecting numbers that no longer exist in reality - but in the country among Italians is that between a Democratic Party subordinate to the French interests and Brothers of Italy that, as Giorgia Meloni says, is the real and only guarantor of national interest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u82	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, in voting in favour of the Democratic Party, it may be useful to clarify what it means to sign a treaty for enhanced cooperation. I would like to point out that enhanced cooperation is different from the transfer of sovereignty. These are two different concepts: in a treaty one can also decide to give sovereignty to a supranational body that is thought to be better able to face some challenges. However, this is not the case. We are talking here about enhanced cooperation. This means that in some areas we decide to consult more, to try to take joint and shared initiatives. Between France and Italy there is a long tradition, which has been going on for a long time. I want to say this because perhaps the previous colleague has no experience of how the European Councils and the Coreper preparatory meetings in which the permanent representatives sit. Historically Italy and France are at the head of a coalition and an alliance. There are others, however; there are the frugal countries, the countries of Eastern Europe, there are those who address the issue of the eastern Mediterranean in order to stem Turkey. France and Italy very often find themselves discussing with Germany, together, sometimes, against Germany in some European battles. This is to bring the debate back to a state of reality. This is why in 2017, with the then President of the Council Gentiloni, it was decided to try to give a more definite framework to a collaboration that was already in fact present in the European Councils and in the main international fora and that has nothing to do with industrial policies, the market and acquisitions. Here you will find some precise points. The strengthening of collaboration occurs when you participate in international summits and when you meet to discuss issues of common interest, starting from the strengthening of bilateral summits that already exist and that unfortunately were interrupted in the passage 2018-2019 and in the strengthening of parliamentary diplomacy, useful to build a common feeling. In fact, some battles, in individual countries, are affirmed if the parliamentarians talk about the different realities. It has nothing to do with being a member of one European party or another. It has to do with the possibility of cooperating and confronting the big challenges. And then to understand the usefulness of enhanced cooperation between Italy and France just see what happened in 2018-2019 when we were no longer talking, when the French Government was being questioned, coming almost to a diplomatic crisis. The situation has then been re-sewn, the reason for joint cooperation has been reaffirmed, and this enhanced cooperation has brought results in Europe. The defence of our country's national interests has passed through the sewing and alliance with France. In fact, when Count went to negotiate the PNRR for the first time, he was not alone, but together with the French leader and seven other European countries, the result of a coalition that had been built with effort, led by the cooperation between Italy and France that brought other countries. The PNRR was born from there and Germany had to choose between collaboration with Italy, France and seven other countries or frugal countries. Germany has decided to stay with Italy and France, which somehow pointed the way, just the opposite of what you said before, as we also see on other great themes. It is no coincidence that the enhanced cooperation between Italy and France led for the first time to disregard the Mitterand doctrine, to change the legal approach in that country. It was a political act of rupture compared to previous history and Macron somehow closed one phase and opened another thanks to the positive collaboration between the two governments and the understanding between two leaders such as Dragons and Macron. It is no coincidence that, although the judiciary, in its autonomy, had made a decision of a certain kind, Macron had no problem in politically manifesting a different idea. I believe that the decision of the Public Prosecutor to challenge the decision of the Court of Appeal has also been affirmed in that climate. [[Applause]] This is due to the positive cooperation between Italy and France. This has been done in a number of areas. In the Quirinale Treaty, for example, preferential areas are identified. I'm thinking about the collaboration on the Alpine arch. Of course, let us not hide that there are certain disputes that need to be resolved, referred to on the agenda of the League. We know that it has nothing to do with this Treaty, but cooperation on the Alpine arch is decisive and, unfortunately, we have seen the tragedies that Senator Porta mentioned earlier in his speech. Climate change needs to be combated and defence, environment and Alpine territory addressed together. The same is true of the Mediterranean, which for us is the most damn complicated geopolitical area. We know very well that we may have had different positions than France in the past, but today it is necessary to work together because Libya teaches us that voids, even in international politics, are filled. Turkey and Russia have become the two great actors in Libya and we had to chase them. How did we reverse the course a little bit? By putting together Italy, France and Germany, who do not now make different decisions about Libya, but consult with each other. Enhanced cooperation serves this purpose, i.e. to strengthen national interest. Some major issues can no longer be dealt with by national measures; if you want to be effective in all areas of interest of your country, issues must be addressed, from time to time, on different scales, which can be the European one or that of enhanced cooperation. This will be true of European defence, political union, the common foreign policy and the courage to go further. We have seen that this has led, in fact, to a strengthening of the role of Italy. It would never have been imaginable in the past a visit to three like the one we saw in Kiev between Olaf Scholz, Mario Draghi and Emmanuel Macron. In the past, the Franco-German was Europe's driving axis and engine. Today there is instead a three-engine - it is undeniable - and I think that it should be rejoiced also Brothers of Italy, because if Italy counts more in Europe it is interest of the whole country to mark it. Abroad, Italy is my country and must be defended. [[Applause.]] 18.23 (Followed by Mr Alfieri). In foreign policy we must find common features and the ability to build a new engine for Europe must be preserved. It is no coincidence that the Treaty of Aachen between France and Germany is balanced by the Treaty of Quirinale and by a similar consultation agreement being established with Germany. That is Europe's new engine, which must be able not to build something alternative to the European Union, but, within the European Union, to be the driving force behind changes, reforms, to change the Treaties and also, if we do not succeed within Europe at 27 to solve the great challenges we face, to have the courage to act outside the Union, as we did for example with Schengen and the euro. I think that work on European defence will be complicated and difficult because the sometimes divergent interests of the industry of the great champions of European defence must also be brought to convergence. However, building collaborations, exchanges of information and privileged places where we are discussing with France and Germany is crucial to building the European Union of the future, political union and common European defence. We are convinced not because we are subordinates to France or because some of us are given the Legion of Honor, but because we think that through these instruments the national interest of our country is strengthened. That is why we firmly say yes to the Quirinale Treaty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u85	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we will vote strongly in favour of the ratification of the enhanced cooperation treaty between the French Republic and Italy. Beyond the substance (I could hold back on the individual points), the Treaty has an importance in a framework of strategic repositioning; this, in my opinion, is a very important aspect. We must not hide the fact that Europe has been led, in all these years, by a narrow Franco-German axis (some say perhaps because of the long season of Merkel); it is not by chance that the senators of Brothers of Italy quoted in contrast the pact of Aachen. It is clear that this cooperation treaty (the Quirinale Pact) is able to rebalance (this word is not used at random), in my opinion by shifting that very Nordic axis on a more Mediterranean axis. Above all, it opens up the possibility, as has also been seen at this time, at a very delicate time for Europe, of building a reinforced three-way guide, Italian-French-German. I think it would be very appropriate, for the future of Europe and also for the interest of the Mediterranean countries, to be able to build a guide which involves Spain more closely. This is important, at a delicate time for Europe, not only because the Treaty is the answer to a Franco-German bilateral guide, which has been there for many years, but also because, in my opinion, it creates the conditions for an ever-increasing strengthening of the European Union, and also because, within the European Union itself, we must not hide the fact that this axis rebalances the so-called axis of the north, that of the so-called frugal countries. This will be all the more crucial the more we will quickly (I hope) put our hand to a revision of the Stability Pact and the Treaties; I believe that this axis will be absolutely valuable. The other issue is what Europe is currently experiencing, namely the question of war. I believe that the construction of enhanced cooperation with France is very important, also in order to prove to the end, seriously and with conviction (which, frankly, so far has not been very clear) the construction line of a negotiation path to get out of the war. Turning back to the enhanced cooperation treaty with France, it is clear that there have been elements in the past; I am not just referring to diplomatic incidents, such as the one that has been mentioned in relation to yellow vests, but also to a number of economic issues that have been a source of conflict. All the more so, I believe that this Treaty allows us to start a much stronger period of cooperation. From the political point of view it is fundamental, all the more after the war and the dissolution of the entire axis of Visegrád. From the point of view of economic cooperation, let us not forget that there are more and more French and Italian mixed industrial groups, in the space, naval, aeronautical, electronic and much more, with more than 600,000 workers. This will strengthen, in my opinion, the reasons and interests of our country. I would like to say very strongly that I regret that the Government, in a way that frankly has been a little superficial, has wished to express a favourable opinion on the G102 agenda for a part that I find absolutely free of charge and which perhaps serves to get out of this House and make propaganda by saying that a nuclear agenda has been adopted. This text reiterates something obvious, that is, fusion research, which is very Italian but at an international level affects France to a certain extent; as Senator Candiani knows perfectly well, on the agenda we are asked to cooperate in research on nuclear power of the latest generation, an issue on which everyone speaks, but on which perhaps it would be good for a serious debate to be held sooner or later. These are, in fact, statements that are being thrown in there, which, frankly, we do not need at this time, only to create discussions that are of no use, especially to tackle the energy crisis, as we know perfectly well. I say this not only because we have had two referendums, but because the crisis we face needs much closer, immediate, concrete answers and not pure ideological propaganda. I am very sorry that a favourable opinion has been expressed on this, but of course I hope that it will not be used to make statements that do not correspond to the truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u88	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the drama that has been taking place on European limes for months has led us to look at the international dimension with renewed attention. Looking beyond national borders, taking initiatives of change, both in European reality and on the international chessboard, is not an option; it is, quite clearly, an unavoidable necessity because choices or missed choices, inaction or fears in foreign policy fall on the fate of Italy. The relaunch of the Franco-Italian dimension, understood as enhanced cooperation, responds first of all to this logic, to the need to develop intense relations, useful to affect the new scenarios, to protect our interests and at the same time to promote our economic fabric, often penalized by the lack of institutional dialogue processes able to protect and support our national champions as our small and medium-sized enterprise. No one, let alone in this House, escapes the deep link between Italy and France; a link which, for various reasons, goes beyond politics and affects various areas. It is a relationship that in the last few years - we must say without hypocrisy - has been marked by moments of tension, characterized by great distrust and characterized by asymmetrical traits from the point of view of interests and opportunities. All this has not been the cause of success for anyone, least of all for our country. Suffice it to look at the international scene, the Mediterranean, where the confrontation between Italy and France that has already been recalled (let's think about Libya) has opened the doors of the region to the protagonism of third actors, from Russia to Turkey, passing through China; or, shifting the look, we think of the French resistances on the story Fincantieri STX, that they have prevented to create a world champion of the shipbuilding ship. It is clear that the lack of capacity for dialogue, the lack of a relationship without an effective Franco-Italian bilateral dimension has weighed, and much, in these and in many other situations; it was a penal factor that in the mutual interest, in the interests of Italy, had to be addressed and removed. The more necessary it is now, in a profoundly changed global scenario, marked by winds of war that redefine every paradigm and call us, as nation states and as Europe, to a test of maturity. Therefore, creating a structural framework for dialogue and dialogue, even before cooperation, between Italy and France, is not only useful, but is necessary. The so-called Quirinale Treaty is therefore a starting point for a new season of relations between Rome and Paris. It sets out a framework for dialogue and possible initiatives in the various areas set out in the 12 articles of the text. It will therefore be the will of its full application and the quality of the concrete actions that determine its ability to affect. We must all be aware, however, that the Treaty will not produce a strategic and permanent alignment between Italy and France. Through the creation of stable traditional channels, however, we can prevent and manage conflicts, as well as through a dense network of formal interactions at multiple levels and between different agencies, including an annual intergovernmental summit, a series of ministerial fora for permanent consultation and joint training and exchange programmes, we can define common positions and actions. The Treaty therefore envisages the development of relations at all levels, including within the framework of parliamentary diplomacy, and provides for enhanced cooperation in the field of foreign and Community affairs on security and defence matters, up to economic, industrial, digital and space cooperation. In my opinion, on foreign matters, in the area of the nostrum sea, the Treaty can bear fruit, if strengthened and cultivated wisely by the parties, also in the light of the fact that last February the European Commission launched the definition of its Mediterranean agenda. Given that for a long time, as Forza Italia, we have been repeating that a country like Italy should draw up a single national strategic document, which contains an overall plan of our action at the international level, it is quite clear that the complexity of situations, both on the global level and on the Mediterranean, needs plural coordinated actions, which must be developed in relation to and in synergy with other partners. It is above all on this front that Italy and France therefore, in my opinion, have the need to meet. They must interact and, unlike the past, they must have a common horizon. In fact, even before the war in Ukraine, the American withdrawal from the enlarged Mediterranean area, with the contextual deepening of the confrontation in the Indo-Pacific, had placed the European countries, first of all Italy and France, before the need to deal in a structured way with the security and development of this area. This is even more true now, given that the Mediterranean will be one of the theatres of new global comparisons. Structured and balanced cooperation between Rome and Paris is therefore useful in tackling problems which, in a context of strong interdependence, we cannot solve alone. For example, with the invasion by Russia of Ukraine it was clear that stabilising the Mediterranean region offers Italy the opportunity to diversify, without surprises, the supply of fuel sources: a strategic and vital issue. The internal European context is also marked by dynamics favourable to the concrete realization of what is in the intentions of the Treaty of Quirinale. Together we can work to influence the Community agenda on some issues, such as the environment, energy and common defence, which must be clearly developed as an integrated tool for NATO. The Treaty provides the framework for establishing an axis on Community issues, for addressing the inevitable and vital issue of a radical and radical structural reform of the European Union: from political governance to economic and monetary issues, a reset, a new course is needed. We need a Europe that is not there and we need it. Of course, we must not be deceived, give in to rhetoric and think that the Quirinale Treaty alone can counter and replace the Franco-German relationship or, worse, believe that this can create a different centre of gravity of European politics. That is not the point and that is not the objective. Of course, the dialogue between Rome and Paris, as we have seen, will be crucial for shaping Europe's future, but the Treaty must be seen as a fruitful development, above all coordinated and - I want to stress this - balanced relations with France, in a framework of widespread cooperation. In addition, allow me to highlight the importance of the launch of Franco-Italian cooperation in the agricultural and agri-food sector for joint action leading to the protection at all levels of designations of origin and geographical indications registered in the European Union and for the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage. Finally, I consider it necessary to reflect on certain reservations which have emerged in recent months and which have been considered both in the adoption of the text by the House and in part in this debate. To put it bluntly, of course we demand that those who have committed crimes in our country should do their time in Italy. [[Applause]] With great honesty I say that we would not do a good service to our country if we did not take into account these observations and if we did not consider some potential risks that, in my opinion, will have to be totally avoided by our determination and capacity as a country system to guarantee and demand reciprocity, from time to time, in the implementation of the Treaty, especially on financial issues. Ladies and gentlemen, our joint action must be based on the need for Italy to have the tools to be an actor on the international scene, finding that necessary protagonism that is proper to it. Therefore, in this constructive spirit, in the knowledge that the challenges facing our horizon are many and difficult, I declare the favorable vote of Forza Italia to the Treaty of Quirinale. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u91	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are at last ratifying the Treaty. First of all, we must remember that this Treaty has been talked about for a long time without the text really being available, and this, as we know very well who is dealing with international policy, is usual practice in drawing up agreements between States. Never again would a treaty be reached if the clauses were put on the table publicly before they were even defined. I say this because, to hear some speeches that preceded me and my colleague before me, it would seem that the text was not yet known, but it is not so. As we well know, it was signed at Quirinale on 26 November 2021 and, reading it, we realize that, perhaps for the first time since the post-war period, we have a very important tool to get out of what, in many ways, in some parts of the history of Italy, was a sort of isolation. I am not talking about the splendid isolation of the English in the 16th, 17th or 18th centuries, but about isolation, unfortunately, like that for those who do not count anything. Mr President, it is clear that with this Treaty we have a centrality; we have an initiative which complements a path that has seen us strangers, namely the Paris Agreement, which already existed between France and Germany, which seemed to be an engine within the European Union alternative to that of the Union itself, but in which, of course, Italy could only be a spectator. This Treaty repositions the axis, the centre of gravity. There is therefore a privileged relationship between Italy and France, for which the two countries undertake to cooperate, to consult each other, to find agreements and commitments on everything: foreign policy, security and defence, migration policies and, of course, European affairs. Also with regard to the aspects of judicial cooperation, we are pleased that the Government has accepted our agenda with which we ask that the two Governments cooperate so that there is extradition of terrorists and, after this fact, that there is no need to reach an agenda that commits the Government, because the two Governments cooperate, as it is written in the agreement, committing themselves to deepening cooperation between their respective judicial administrations. Other important points are economic and industrial cooperation, the environment and sustainable and inclusive social development, all of which our country cannot remain foreign to decisive choices, as well as development in the aerospace industry, which sees Italy as an excellence, collaboration on education and culture, young people, civil society, cross-border cooperation and European dynamics. At no point did I find any reference to Italy's subalternity compared to France, Senator Balboni. [[Applause]] Instead, I find references to Italy's willingness to sit at the table with France and France's willingness to sit at the table with Italy to share strategic choices. This means making foreign policy, that means being mature for the government. [[Applause]] To simply take positions in a somewhat masculine way, neglecting the fact that the day after tomorrow they will be married with government policy - the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not have it wrong - then forces them to abjure themselves as when they go to embrace the yellow vests and then abjure themselves at that act. You have to be careful, before you do actions and steps in front of which then, when you assume a responsibility of government, you have to reverse. Before saying that this Treaty is worth nothing or that Italy is in a subordinate position with respect to France, it is worth reading it, deepening it or at least knowing it. [[Applause]] It is worth, perhaps, confronting the employers' and business associations, our businesses, the craftsmen and that economy which - yes - for too many years has suffered from competition from the French industries in which, being in the single European market, little could be opposed. Today we do not want to oppose anyone, we do not want France to do predatory actions in Italy and we certainly do not want to reciprocate with actions of disgust, when the French enterprises propose for collaborations (I think of the relationships in the great naval industry and the actions made also to inhibit some penetration, at the moment when we talk about technologies or communications). We must unite to build a common path that makes Italy stronger and protagonist of European development, not subordinate to Germany, or to choices made perhaps in China, on the other side of the Ocean, of which we are only spectators. This centrality we reclaim and tell the government to make good use of this instrument. As has been said convincingly before, goodness is not in the instrument, but in those who then use it. It will depend on the maturity of the coming governments if good use is made of it or if bad use is made of it. [[Applause]] This is a tool that is now available to Italian companies and to those who develop our cross-border activity and which Italy can now also have to recover space in terms of foreign policy, for example on the African front, in which Germany and France are present and in which our foreign policy has been absent for too many years. There is a supranational dimension which is reflected in this act, of which we are fully aware. I would like to make an inscription and repeat to the Government that it is important to close the slopes we mentioned earlier: what we can call symbolic, but what symbolic is not, on the territoriality of Mont Blanc; the fundamental one, regarding the collaboration with France for the development of new technologies for the production of electricity. The French have a very developed nuclear industry, we have developed a lot on renewables. We work together, we also make investments together to get out of an energy crisis faster, in which we cannot play the game alone, thinking of winning it. Much of our future will be played on these collaborations. We are therefore firmly convinced that we are voting in favour of the ratification of this Treaty and we are equally convinced that if the government that is in office and those that will come will make good use of it, our enterprise and our economy will only be able to To benefit from it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u92	We examined the agenda earlier and were compatible with the text, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u95	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today we are preparing to ratify this Treaty, which we in Movimento 5 Stars consider a good treaty of enhanced cooperation. I will only go into part of the substance of the text and I would like to refer to some of the speeches made by some of my colleagues. The Treaty under consideration is certainly a good starting point for starting or starting a path of real cooperation that can defuse the many problems and differences, even on the issues highlighted by my colleagues. I refer, among the many, to the one tied to the Santander ship yard, which was to be acquired by our Fincantieri, on which the French - then each of us will say if rightly or not - have put their veto power. This type of treaty serves precisely this purpose: to open a dialogue in the government tables between our two nations, so that this type of diatribe can be resolved upstream. In general, some Members have referred to the European Union. I would like to add, as far as the Treaties of the European Union are concerned, that as long as the Treaty uniting the 27 states fails to avoid the use of bilateral agreements, until the European Union has such a force, with the amendment of the Treaty governing relations between the 27 States, we can legitimately use this type of enhanced cooperation, which does not run counter to the general policies of the Union, but allows us to have greater weight and importance throughout the whole context, not only of Europe, but also of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation. I would remind myself that Italy and France together have a huge weight in the Euro-Mediterranean area; cross-border relations with North Africa are often governed by interactions and interests between our nations. Therefore, this Treaty must also be ratified for this reason. With reference to previous interventions, Brothers of Italy's colleague referred, I do not know how consciously, to the story of the 2011 French attack on Libya. I remind my colleague, Mr President, that he was in the Berlusconi Government in 2011 and one of the ministers was Giorgia Meloni. Therefore, opposition from the benches is easy, when you govern you have to give directions. [[Applause]] Even though he was a minister for youth, he was still a minister for that government. [[Applause]] I would remind the House if anyone had forgotten. [[Comments]] Thank you for your compliments, ladies and gentlemen. I really appreciate them. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u96	Talk to the Presidency and please do not disturb my colleagues. You speak to the Presidency, do not provoke. LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, you are absolutely right. I am addressing you. [[Comments.]] Senator, don't call for interruptions with specious arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u97	Mr. President, I'm hanging on to your lips. I'll continue with my speech. A reference has been made by my colleague De Petris, but also by my colleague Garavini, to the story related to yellow vests. I can say that in the end the current Minister for Foreign Affairs was able to put in place a so-called industrious repentance by signing the Treaty. Therefore that passage must be stigmatized and handed over to history, but each of us evolves, it also changes positions and this may be an opportunity to deal with this issue as well. My colleague Mr Candiani recalled the important relations with the transalpine "cousins" - the cooperation between us and France is important on many assets of strategic importance, from aerospace to naval - but he also made a clear reference to the interactions and strategic plans related to the energy sector, another very important and very topical theme. He made a positive reference to renewables, although on the agenda G102 (text 3) there is a general reference to research. We at the Movimento 5 Stars clearly support scientific research, but the latest generation of nuclear has been brought into play with clear reference to fission and plants that require tens of years (30 or 40 years) for their realization. With regard to nuclear fusion, we are already largely in the research sectors and I would like to remind you that one of the projects, including the ITER, has been in the pipeline for more than twenty years and has been spending huge resources, but it still does not see and will not see the light, if not in several decades. In conclusion, I declare that the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the ratification of the Treaty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u98	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u99	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00351 by Senator Vallardi and other Senators, 1-00494 by Senator Taricco and other Senators, 1-00497 by Senator Naturale and other Senators, 1-00498 by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and 1-00503 by Senator De Carlo and other Senators, on interventions to safeguard Italian beekeeping. As established by the Conference of Leaders, motions will be given for illustrations and for each of them each Group will have five minutes for discussion and five minutes for explanations of vote. Senator Corrado is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u100	Mr President, as is well known, honey is a complex food: it contains about two hundred different substances, the result of a unique interaction between the vegetal and animal realms, so much so that the breeding of bees is traditionally called beekeeping, as if it were plants and not insects. A unique integration, I said, because the transformation of nectar into honey by bees produces, thanks to the addition of enzymes, chemical modifications, as well as a drastic decrease in the initial percentage of water. Colleagues, on the international market the demand for honey has been rising since 2010, with an increase of about 20,000 tons per year, because it increases the population of the planet and increases the groups of consumers and also the preference for natural and healthy food. World production capacity, however, does not hold the pace of demand. In Europe and in the other geographical areas that traditionally are large honey producers, there are, on the contrary, recurrent declines, due to the adversities that afflict beekeeping: the increase of monocultures and the reduction of nectar reserves, the devastating impact of pesticides on bees, the spread of new parasitics and, not least, climate change, with the extreme atmospheric phenomena that accompany it. These influence the production of nectar of many plant species, causing prolonged states of food stress in the colonies of bees and often force beekeepers to very expensive artificial relief nutrients, but unable to replace the booty that insects find in the environment, rich in yeasts, enzymes and other substances useful for feeding the brood and the correct development of the immune system of the colony, with a consequent weakening of the families themselves. As for the national production, characterized, as is known, by a very variable size of the company, the arrival of predators and exogenous parasites increasingly widespread has in turn a severe impact on the health of the colonies of the territories concerned, generating a drastic reduction of the productive potential of the hives. If that were not enough, extensive and increasing adulteration and fraud put honey in third place in the world ranking of the most counterfeit foods, after milk and oil. Yet the problem does not arise only, nor mainly, in terms of food, because bees and other pollinators, through a constant activity often ignored or not sufficiently recognized, carry out, above all, crucial functions for the ecosystem, ensuring the reproduction of plants and the protection of biodiversity. Action must therefore be taken to protect pollinating insects and combat bee mortality by increasing the use of technological devices to support ordinary monitoring activities. National guidelines should be established to monitor, verify and report rapidly the deaths and depopulation of hives caused by acute or chronic poisonings by pesticides, sampling of field plant matrixes made by appropriately trained ASL personnel and standardised intervention procedures. We must also take the opportunity of programming the next common agricultural policy (CAP), as outlined in the national strategic plan, for measures such as, under the first pillar, the adoption of eco-schema 5, in favour of pollinators, which will essentially ensure grass-based pastures for bees and non-exposure to plant protection products. In the context of the second pillar (rural development), it is necessary to implement that new and specific measure aimed at supporting producers who undertake to transfer their hives to areas of the Region where a lack of biodiversity is recognised. There is also a need to raise awareness and train farmers, campaign contractors and campaign technicians about the crucial role of pollination and the vital cycles of pronubes, especially bees, and to implement the interventions inspired by the Agricultural Knowledge and Innovation System (AKIS) model foreseen in the future CAP. National guidelines should be provided to public bodies managing or contracting urban green care to avoid unfair choices regarding pesticide treatments. It is also essential to constantly raise citizens' awareness of the protection of pollinators, including in the management of private greenery, without neglecting the systematic training in primary and secondary schools, especially those of agricultural orientation, training which is not currently planned on bees and pollinators and on the role they play in maintaining biodiversity. Returning to honey, finally - and I close - we must combat agri-food fraud, intensifying the processes of control over the honey imports in order to avoid the marketing in Italy of adulterated honey. It is necessary to define a system of national quality of Italian honey, with a strong connotation and territorial characterization, based on objective analytical criteria... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u101	Unfortunately, Senator, I cannot allow additional time, because at 8 p.m. we have to finish our work. Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. You too, Senator, will have to finish your speech in the five minutes you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u102	Mr President, I will probably take even less minutes than I have been given, because there are not so many things to say. Finally, we are bringing an extremely interesting subject to the House. Beekeeping is an economic sector, not very important compared to the whole Italian agri-food system. There is talk at European level of a few billion, as regards trade in this product; as we know, the main product is honey, but derived from this, there are also many other products and by-products that serve not only for food, but also for other sectors, such as cosmetics. Beyond the aspect of beekeeping, it is important to bring a topic to the House today to be put to the public's attention and I do not think it escapes my colleagues - who are here now and who, speaking of bees, are filling this room with a pleasant buzz, because they are not careful - the fact that this small insect, along with many other pollinating insects, is the driving force behind agriculture. Through these insects, in fact, we manage to have agricultural production. Five motions were presented, starting from one signed by colleagues of the League and presented in May 2021. We, as the Brothers of Italy Group, have also tabled a motion, which is highlighted in relation to the others on a number of points that I would like to stress. The first of all is that which calls on the government to commit itself to reducing the VAT rate from 22% to 10% for beekeeping equipment. It is a sector that, as I said before, has a low economic impact, but that still requires important investments to those who want to devote to this activity and income, as well as in many other sectors, is certainly not profitable. The second point is important; we expect real and concrete compensation, with regard to income support, even in cases of damage to production caused by climate change, which very often lead to zeroing these farms, so much so that if until recently the bees in some way gave a nourishment or maintenance to man, very often, because of climate change, it is man himself who must feed these animals, who are at risk of extinction. Of course, even here the problem is not only climate change, but sometimes also the indiscriminate use of certain pesticides, which do not help the survival of these insects. In this case too, we try to urge important commitments, such as education within schools, but above all to encourage the actions of the Municipalities, so much so that with the agricultural department of Brothers of Italy, directed by my colleague De Carlo, in recent months we have made a motion in all the Municipalities in which this problem was highlighted, trying to urge them to take action to defend these animals. This is what is basically proposed in the motions. We could then talk about unfair competition, especially from China, which creates products with syrup. But what I wanted to highlight and stigmatize, Mr President, is that unfortunately we have missed an opportunity in the Committee on Agriculture. Last Friday I urged the Commission because, beyond the motions, it had made an act of direction, a business assigned by the Presidency, which we all voted together. The whole of the Agriculture Commission had voted on the document. I am sorry that Senator Taricco, whom I highly esteem, has proposed as a single motion of the PD exactly and literally, with a copy and paste, all the document that we had unanimously approved and that was the result of the work of all the Commissioners and all the political groups. [[Applause]] It is certainly a behavior to be stigmatized, because it is incorrect. [[Applause]] Also because I had this thing publicly... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u103	The remedy is there, just subscribe to all the act of PD; a remedy that I do not believe would oppose the PD Holding Company. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u104	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly on this subject, which I am very interested in and on which we have spoken and worked in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production also with the leader, Senator Caligiuri. Umbria interprets perfectly and understands the indications of the motion of Forza Italia, which refer specifically to bees. It is worth taking into account how many things go around the bees and how important they are. The prince of Cesi, in 1625, wrote that between Acquasparta and Portaria were the sweetest queen bees, so much so that Acquasparta was made the first study of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, which made the first treatise for the microbiological description of the bees. Acquasparta, with Councillor Guido Morichetti, has done a great job on the question of bees; he has become a common friend of bees, he will make the garden of bees and he maintains relations with Slovenia, which is the country promoting the Day of bees. All these elements are found in the motion of Forza Italia, of which our leader, Senator Anna Maria Bernini, is first signatory. When we talk about bees, we must take into account the great work done by local authorities and regions. As always, I can cite the example I know. The Councillor for Agriculture of the Umbria Region, which is of Forza Italia, has launched the pact of alliance for sustainability, thanks to which there are several adhesions to a series of projects such as "Save the bees" and "The bees and biodiversity". There is also the CAP 2023-2027 for good practice for pollination and biodiversity. As I said, the work done in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production is important. We give a precise input, with very clear and clear commitments to the Government, but this reality is fortunately heeded by our local administrations and the Region, especially as a concept of good practice and with the awareness that World Bee Day, which is celebrated on May 20, has become fundamental to spread this culture of great attention. I am convincedly supportive of this type of policy, which I see in our municipalities and in the Region and which I also see in the motion tabled by Forza Italia. I believe that everyone can work for this commitment to save bees at every level. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u105	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u106	Mr President, the motions before us today are very important, given the importance of bees for the economy and agriculture. As for the economy, let us always say that it is important to move towards diversification of agricultural activity. Farmers and farmers have diversified agricultural activity within their farms, while beekeepers (small entrepreneurs) support the economy of their families, family members and territory. It is also important from the point of view of sustainability, to avoid the sterilization of the crops of our orchards. Let us remember that in China, where there are practically no more bees, beekeepers - in fact they are not, in this case - are forced to artificially pollinate fruit trees. We avoid getting to this and keep in mind the environmental disasters that are affecting us, from the frosts to the drought of this period. I would like to focus in particular on the first-signed motion by Senator Vallardi, where, in point 2, the Government is committed to supporting the implementation of projects in primary and secondary schools. I thank all the beekeepers, who are already committed to this and have not waited for the aid of Parliament or the Government. [[Applause]] They carry out a daily activity, alongside the volunteers of the associations. In my territory of the Verona plain we have the association Verbena dell'Adige, which daily, together with the mayors, seeks to raise awareness of communities, pupils, childhood, adolescence, all young people on this important topic of economy and environmental sustainability. They are exemplary mayors, who give the availability of spaces for the positioning of hives and hives. Here we have an example: Senator Pirovano, who is mayor of Misano di Gera d'Adda, tells us, also through the posts on social media, the activities he does for his community. It vibrates, quivers and raises awareness of its own community, its own countrymen and its small citizens, who are our future. These mayors engage with concrete actions in activities involving the world of school or, alternatively, the parish world linked to the activities of grest, childhood, adolescence, young people, as we said before. Among other things we remember the benefits, from the point of view of health, healthy and genuine products, those of our Italian beekeepers, because we all know the properties, as well as honey, also of propolis. Often in winter we have consumed candy and propolis products, which serve - excuse the brutal term - to disinfect the oropharyngeal cable or throat. It is recent news, during the Covid period, that a research of the CREA, funded by the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, has emerged encouraging data. Far from me to say that there is a valid alternative to vaccination Covid; certainly, however, are confirmed the beneficial properties of propolis, fruit of the work of our friends bees. The synthesis of the research is that the certified presence of SARS-CoV-2 outside experimental hives did not result in its presence inside with the entrance of the bees, in particular in honey. Evidently, the propolis used by bees, combined with their enzyme secretions, turns out to be an excellent antiviral. Sometimes nature meets us with what already exists. It remains for us to value it, through these motions and these commitments to the Government towards our communities and the environment. It is important what we will do and also important, beyond the economic measures adopted by the Budget Act and the Support Decree, to continue to work economically to meet the environment and health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u107	The debate is closed. I inform you that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, with the signature of Senators Corrado and Marinello. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u108	Mr President, I am in favour of both the agenda and the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u109	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u112	TRENTACOSTE (IPf-CD). Mr President, the fact that the population of bees around the world is declining, especially because of the use of certain biocidal products such as neonicotinoids, is documented by studies and research. The number of species of bees detected in nature has decreased globally by about 25 percent in the 2006-2015 decade; since the second half of the last century, the dramatic global increase in agricultural activities with conventional production patterns has led to the loss of biodiversity, the alteration of ecosystems and the widespread use of pesticides and all this has drastically reduced many varieties of weeds and blooms related to the life cycle of bees. Colleagues, we have adopted an unsustainable food production model which, with its spread, has considerably reduced planetary biodiversity. In addition, the increase in temperatures forced some species of bees to leave native areas or caused them to disappear. Let us remember in this regard that many of the 20,000 species of existing insects pollinate 85 percent of the food and fruit crops around the world. The alarming fact is that, although about 6,000 cultivable plant species are known, the ones actually used in food production are about 200 and two thirds of the total agricultural production consist of nine species only: sugar cane, rice, corn, wheat, potato, soy, oil palm, sugar beet and cassava. It is not different for animal proteins: if the mainly bred species are about forty, there are few ones on which we rely for meat, milk and eggs. It is clear, therefore, that the wrong ecological organization of most of the companies on the planet has caused a domino effect, due to a series of relapses and a vicious circle to which we do not escape if the system of productions is not re-founded with more efficient systems from a thermodynamic point of view and energy efficiency, such as that of agroecology. In Europe, the farm-fork strategy has indicated this path since 2020, but in this area it is necessary that the agendas of the two branches of our Parliament allow the legislative proposals on agro-ecology a rapid procedure, allowing the transposition and application of new rules and visions. In this regard, I would like to address President Vallardi so that the bill on agroecology, of which Mrs Caligiuri is rapporteur, can see the light indicating a new way of doing, which is respectful of the environment and the health of living beings, in an increasingly sustainable direction. For these reasons and with this hope, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for the future Democratic Centre on the motions dealt with. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u115	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has also been well mentioned in previous speeches, the beekeeping sector is one of the excellences of Italy, a heritage to be protected, a cornerstone to be safeguarded. The work of the 9th Commission has always gone in this direction and I would therefore like to thank President Vallardi and all my colleagues and colleagues in the Commission. On 20 May 2021 he was chosen to celebrate the third World Bee Day, which was established in 2017 by the United Nations General Assembly and aims to raise awareness among the public and institutions about the fundamental role of these insects in the balance of ecosystems, the protection of territories and food security. This is not a mere recurrence, but the main moment of a broader reflection that touches one of the most sensitive issues of our future, that of climate change. The effects of climate mutations could have devastating effects, as unfortunately we are seeing with the tragedies of the last few days. There is a real risk of extinction for at least one species of bees in ten, without forgetting that, in reflection, some species of flowers would disappear: a real disaster, therefore. As well as a disaster is also likely to occur for Italian honey. We know that this precious production, in fact, fails to meet the internal demand. On the other hand, there is a large production in China. Attention, however: it is not a production of quality, but a real counterfeit generated by man, which has literally replaced itself in some of the production phases, such as dehumidification and maturation, causing an alteration of the natural balance of production of honey, also through the use of quantities of sugar syrup higher than allowed, in violation of European standards in terms. All this results in a significant loss of the nutritional properties of the product: a situation that, at the same time, involves possible risks to the health of consumers. Obviously, in this context, it is also the Italian beekeepers, whose work and history of ancient traditions have allowed to make, over time, honey of excellent quality. In order to avoid all this happening, it is necessary to transpose the points of the motions and it is necessary to carry out control over the territories and to raise awareness in the schools. In short, it is necessary for all of us to protect the more than 60,000 Italian beekeepers and their work. In this sense, the Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I. will also contribute today to the approval of the various motions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u118	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, I am obliged, first of all, to clarify, from the point of view of the method, the resolution to which Mr La Pietra referred earlier, voted by the whole Commission but never arrived in this House, the resolution on bees. It is a pair with that on wildlife which, with as much laziness, this House has forgotten to treat, so much so that we continue to see boars spinning, rocketing for this city, often closing also the cycle of waste, in the sense that what the municipal administrations of Rome should do, in this city wild boars do brilliantly. And we saw them, in their last apparition, even on the beach of San Felice al Circeo, where rightly, after many months of work, in winter-autumn, and spring-autumn, in the context of the cycle of waste, they rightly allow themselves their vacation, so much so that we have seen a video where they even stand above the deckchairs. The inertia in dealing with this theme, therefore, has led this city to be almost a joke from the point of view of the wild boar's life. We would not, however, want the same thing to happen with bees. Mr President, who sees us from outside could say: what are you doing? With all the problems we have today, do you worry and talk about insects as apparently insignificant as bees? In fact, the bee is doing exactly what we should do in the agri-food field today. Thanks to bees, in fact, today there are productions, pollination and therefore the greater production, which is what we need today. In the very short period we will have to feed a constantly growing world population and we cannot do so regardless of the existence of pollinating animals. So, it's no accident that we're dealing with this issue. The bee is somewhat opposed to the policies that the European Union would like to put in place, namely those of the farm-to-fork, which aim to reduce the production of the planet. The bee, on the other hand, does exactly the opposite: for thousands of years it has contributed to increasing production. And that is the only reason why we should discuss the subject today: take the philosophy of the bee and contrast it with the philosophy of the living room ecologists who do not care about the production, because so much they will probably be destined to eat synthetic foods. Since we do not give up on this, we are deliberately and selfishly on the side of the bee. As if that were not enough, the bee is also the symbol of a sustainable world. Colleagues, it was 2008 when my colleague Balboni - he reminded me earlier - already put at the centre of the political agenda, with a question, the problem of the bees and the sustainability of the environment for the life of the bee, as a testimony of how not only he was the avant-garde ecologist, but already this movement that, always attentive to these issues, poses questions and solutions other than demagogy, but much closer to the practicality that we should all have. As my colleague La Pietra has said, as an agricultural sector we have already intended to fulfill many commitments that have been included in our motion today, making sure that every municipal council, every institution or institution can legitimately decide in favour of a greater sensitivity to the topic of bees through resolutions that we have prepared and made to vote by many municipalities. I am talking about those of Veneto that have been really many, and some avant-garde municipalities like San Pietro Mussolino with the mayor Tasso has even placed the bees at the center of a project of revitalization itself of the municipality, through a whole series of themes of bee interest that make that an important town. But it's not just that. We believe that through the bees we will save this planet, and we will do so in the simplest way, that of the conservatives, that is, trying to preserve what our fathers have left us to deliver to our children a better world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u121	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about the protection of Italian beekeeping, certainly because beekeeping is an important sector; we are talking about over 1.5 million beehives, partly sedentary, partly nomadic. We are talking about an important production, or rather: it would have been important if in recent years it had not had - due to adverse climatic conditions - a collapse, since it is an average production that was more than 20,000 tons and that last year it has reduced to little more than half. We are also talking about an important sector because bees are essentially an antenna of the environmental quality in which we are called to live. Therefore, we are here to discuss the future of beekeeping companies; we are talking about the future of the fruit and vegetable field, because bees and other pollinators are fundamental in order to guarantee the continuity of these productions, and to some extent we are here to talk about the future of nature and the context in which we live. Unfortunately, the environmental pollution, the electromagnetic pollution, the sometimes incorrect use of chemistry for the many functions for which it is used, the presence of important diseases that have affected this sector and climate change have seriously endangered the future of this crucial insect, and with it have called into question the quality of the environment and the context in which we are called to live. That is why - as has been said - the Committee on Agriculture has already dealt with this issue in an important way and adopted a resolution. And in order to prevent this resolution from being present at the present time in the debate that is taking place in this House, we have taken the responsibility of presenting it again with additions, because we believed and we believe it is necessary that the objectives that it was intended to define were part of this debate and were part of the commitments that the Government was responsible for taking in the end, when we are called to vote. There is no doubt that, as my colleagues have already said, the initiatives that are being carried out on the ground must be exploited. I believe that the experiences relating to the creation of areas attentive to bees and pollinators in Val Venosta or those promoted by the savings bank of Cuneo are important, thanks to the contributions through which almost 200 municipalities of the Province have created areas of flowers to ensure the protection of bees in that context. Just as important is the fact that the proposal made by the Italian Government and the Italian Regions to the European Union with regard to eco-schemas, eco-schema 5, is centered precisely on the future of pollinators and for this reason more than 40 million incentives are allocated. I repeat that we are here today to ask the Government for a strong commitment to the transparency of the origin of honey production, because only in this way will we protect the quality of our product. We are here to ask for an extraordinary commitment on controls in general, but above all on the product that comes from abroad; a focus in order to guarantee, in the context of the reform of the risks in agriculture, the insurability of the bee sector; we are here to ask for greater control and monitoring regarding the mortality of insects; we are here to ask for simplifications regarding packaging and marketing premises and refinement, also in fiscal terms, in parallel with the other agricultural sectors. These are the contents of the motions that are at our attention and that is why the Democratic Party will also vote in favour of the motions under discussion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u124	Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, bees, like all pollinating insects, play an important role in the conservation of nature and in the maintenance of biodiversity. The Italian beekeeping sector has always been strategic for the country's economy. Italian beekeeping is the expression of a rich heritage of values, thanks to ancient techniques and traditions that have been handed down for generations and is based on respect for natural organic production cycles, which guarantee the realization of a product of the highest quality. Despite the indispensable role of the bee in maintaining the natural balance and despite its essential ecosystem service as a valuable pollinator, ecological sentinel and bioindicator of air quality, several species are at great risk of extinction due to climate change and the use of pesticides. In Italy, domestic production does not meet demand and, if honey production in the world decreases, in 2019 alone in Italy it has fallen by 50%, to a value of 70 million euros. On the other hand, China is witnessing an uninterrupted increase, also as a result of non-compliance with European production standards, resulting in a threat to the competitiveness of the sector throughout Europe. China, in fact, the world's leading exporter and producer of a quarter of the honey sold globally, does not prohibit dilution and indeed supports diluted products, with a network of companies that stand side by side with the producers and operators of honey processing and also the production of corn and rice syrup. And this is clearly very serious. Alibaba, the largest online sales platform, advertises an industrial glucose syrup for honey that costs very little, 85 cents per kilo. Consumers often do not realize that the honey they find in their supermarket and that it is so convenient compared to what they used to be is Chinese honey diluted and therefore counterfeited. The phenomenon is therefore well known, but it is not easy to pursue it for many reasons, first of all because of the complexity of honey, a product that is difficult to standardize, which contains hundreds of substances that change according to the conditions for the difficulty of testing for the identification of adulterating compounds. The examinations are still uneven and in many cases overcome by new adulterous strategies. With the motions to our attention today it is intended to urge the Government to adopt interventions for the protection of Italian beekeeping, to support the realization of projects in primary and secondary schools of first and second degree and throughout the national territory for the dissemination of knowledge of the fundamental and vital role that bees play. Everyone should do their part, as has already been mentioned in this House by other groups. I here today want to bear witness to what has been done in my city: Benevento has been proposed as a city of bees, involving institutes of every order and degree and, thanks to the collaboration between the Municipality, WWF and Rotary Club, has equipped an urban apiary, an excellent structure that is gaining considerable success in terms of presence and sharing. Hundreds of families have participated actively, together with many children, in its inauguration. The area, which is born as an island of biodiversity in the heart of the city, will also become an instrument of environmental education to raise awareness especially of the sustainability and importance of bees and other pollinators for our environment and the vital role they play in the ecosystem. In my opinion, the motions, thanks to the passages contained in them, are a further piece in the building of the highway to give the bees a future, because without these insects - it has been repeated and I repeat it - life, as we know it, would no longer be the same. The hope, therefore, is that the Government will take into account all the things that have been recalled in the five motions. I am sure he will do so and that all requests will be supported. I conclude by announcing Italy's favorable vote at the Center-We of Center and LEU-Ecosolidali and saying that saving bees is a priority and, to do so, it is necessary to rethink the way in which human activities impact on habitats and biodiversity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u127	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, colleagues in the Italian beekeeping sector - as previous speakers have already said - where 60,000 beekeepers operate, there are about 1.4 million hives. Data on the sector, however, have fallen in negative due to parasites, diseases, natural habitat depletion and climate change and, unfortunately, more than 10 million hives have disappeared. The loss of the role of bees would cost EUR 153 billion worldwide, representing 10% of the market value of food products, not to mention our beekeepers, who protect the survival of bees and ensure on our honey tables quality, the only true interaction between the realm of plants and animals. It is thought that, for a kilo of honey, 2,737 million flowers are visited. In the Committee on Agriculture - I repeat - last year we unanimously voted a resolution concluding the examination of the deal allocated to the problems of the beekeeping sector and already on that occasion all the parliamentary groups were aware of the value that our beekeepers represent within the agricultural sector, where over time important choices have been made for nature, animals and also for our bee friends; recognizing to the same bees and beekeepers the role of indispensable partner of agriculture today and tomorrow. This recognition must start first and foremost from our territories. In this regard, I would like to inform the House of the law adopted just yesterday unanimously by the Regional Council of Calabria: the first rule aimed at encouraging the development of Calabrian beekeeping with direct support. Therefore, I applaud the Councillor Gallo and President Occhiuto for having insisted on and inserted this type of incentives. [[Applause]] As I anticipated, however, for some years the production of Italian honey has fallen sharply throughout the country; as well as in strong decrease is the demand for Italian honey abroad and also its price, despite the use of honey has increased considerably. This is a paradox that goes against every economic rule. Usually, the price of an asset increases when demand is high. Then why do these conditions not occur in the case of Italian honey? The reasons are to be attributed to the replacement of the product with others of inferior quality, to the increasing import of Asian honey of dubious quality, to the increase of fraud, to the lack of effectiveness of controls on the imported non-EU product and to the lack of communication on qualitative issues. It is therefore from these assumptions that we started to present our proposals for the protection of beekeeping, especially from unfair competition from abroad, especially from China, where real honey factories are operating and the final product is devoid of its characteristic components. For this reason, as Forza Italia Group, we believe that it is necessary to support companies in the sector also by activating at European level an action plan against counterfeiting and strengthening traceability procedures; as well as it would be important to promote and encourage new beekeeping companies that promote the entry of new young people and also the disabled. For all that has been said so far, we will vote strongly in favour of the motions before us, which include immediate support for companies which have suffered disasters and production losses and a control plan on imported honey in order to reduce the quality of non-compliant honey. I shall conclude, Mr President, by making my own a phrase by Albert Einstein, who understood the importance of the role of bees. I am sure that these few words can sum up everyone's thoughts: if the bees disappear from the face of the Earth, man would only have four years to live. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u130	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Battistoni for being here today to talk about the very important subject of bees. To speak of bees, I take my cue from the last reflection, as "supposed" (as I think it is said in Campania), and from the reference to the famous sentence of Albert Einstein. It is a phrase attributed to him, even if at that time we had no more objective data. But if everyone claimed that it was his sentence, we strongly believe that it is. The sentence is as follows: after four years that the bees should - hopefully never happen - disappear from the face of the Earth, man would also disappear. This is simply because bees pollinate about 85-90 percent of all edible plant species. So if there are no more bees, there are no more fruits and vegetables, and the man would automatically disappear from the face of the Earth. From this we understand how important this topic is. Today we are too busy with some very important issues such as the Covid pandemic, war, food self-sufficiency, but in my opinion we need to focus a little more - and here I am addressing the whole House, and not the Agriculture Commission, whom I thank, which adopted this motion unanimously a year ago - and pay more attention to the very important subject of bees. I thank the Government, which last year, thanks also to the solicitation of the Committee on Agriculture, has allocated over 10 million euros for the 50,000 heroes that are the beekeepers of this country. [[Applause]] I say heroes because to make beekeepers you do not have a great income; you have to be bee enthusiasts, but above all of the environment. With climate change in progress, raising bees and producing honey is very difficult. We had the frosts, we had a very strong death of the hives, so we must definitely continue to talk about bees so that this passion is passed on to future generations. We must continue with the teaching of our children, of the pupils talking about them in schools, but above all, as well as talking, we must also act accordingly. For this reason I would like to mention the wonderful experience I had in the Province of Treviso, of which I was a promoter, where a local company, the Savno, donated 150 hives to the schools and municipalities of the Province. This allowed to touch the life of the bees, but, above all, to create new enthusiasts, who then in turn will continue to transmit such a passion. This must also be absolutely borrowed in other realities, given the great difficulty we have with Italian soiling, i.e. with the counterfeiting of honey, against those that I would like to consider invaders of our markets, not only Italians, but also Europeans. [[Applause]] I am referring to Chinese honey, which calls honey really an aberration, since inside it there are glucose, fructose and only a few drops of honey, and then it is sold for honey and placed safely without any kind of labelling inside our supermarkets. We must continue to work in this direction; we must continue to defend our products, but above all, our beekeepers who - I repeat - are real heroes of environmental protection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u133	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we are about to vote on motions for a delicate and poorly-known subject, namely the world of insects, bees and workers, beekeepers. It is not enough a single date, on 20 May, to recall the important role that insects have for the balance of the ecosystem, which is also protection of the territory and food security. This date certainly makes known their importance, but not the knowledge and criticality of the sector. Well, climatic variations are particularly bad for these insects, especially in the last two years: the sector has been affected because of the climatic trend that has been merciless. Added to this are the excessive use of pesticides, pesticides, and also the frequency of fires with which we must not get used to living together. Bees suffer too much heat, but they also suffer too much from the cold and it is only thanks to the loving care of beekeepers that that world can exist and, together with systemic legislative interventions, we can help the sector with great health benefit for consumers, increasingly attentive and aware of their food choices, as well as related to cosmetics. Bees are the sentinels of the environment; what happens to the environment inevitably gives consequences to the charming and delicate world of bees. Many beekeepers, unfortunately, have had to stop their activities and it is a real shame because this sector requires little economic investment, but it gives a huge yield, not only in terms of healthy products, from honey to propolis, from pollen to wax. Bees are important because they promote pollination. This latter activity has become complementary to so many farmers and has been supported by specific measures which, however, should be strengthened with additional resources. In addition, the application of technologies, together with specific training courses, as well as the rediscovery of ancient bee care practices, can unfold all the beneficial effects inherent. An instructive example is what has happened in Germany in recent years, where Syrian refugees have reintroduced beekeeping and let me stress the opportunity that often gives migratory flows to the host countries. Today we are about to vote on important motions, but I would also like to reiterate the need for the draft law No 1254, first signed by Vice-President Taverna and currently being discussed by the Environment and Agriculture Commissions, to become law as soon as possible. Coming to the text of the motions in question, the Government undertakes with them to promote actions aimed at the protection of pollinating insects and at the contrast of the phenomenon of the mortality of bees; to define guidelines at national level to monitor, verify and quickly denounce phenomena of moria; to intensify, even with the profitable use of the new screening technologies available, the control processes on honey imports; to define a system of national quality of Italian honey with a strong connotation and territorial characterization, based on objective and analytical criteria superior to those of the already existing standards, combined with the use of biotechnics for the management and breeding of hives; to seize the opportunity of programming of the next CAP, as outlined in the National Strategic Plan, for the implementation of measures that will undoubtedly have positive effects; therefore to provide guidelines at national level for the use of public bodies, in particular for the municipalities that manage or procure the care of urban greens so as to safeguard the bees from bad choices in the matter of pesticide treatments; and to ensure a constant awareness of citizens to the protection of pollinating insects, starting from the choices for the management of private green. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u134	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote. I call on Senator Vallardi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 351. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 494, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 497, tabled by Senator Naturale and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 498, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Carlo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 503. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Corrado and Marinello. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The agenda was adopted by zero votes against and zero abstentions. Congratulations to the hosts.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-07-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-448.ana.u136	The Senate will reconvene in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, July 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (20 a.m.).
