ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Economic Development will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Rampi has the right to explain the question 3-03095 on funds for the financing of socio-cultural activities in the urban outskirts, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u4	Minister, we have considered questioning you about the substantial funds that the Ministry has been able to allocate to metropolitan cities, particularly for social inclusion in the outskirts. As a Democratic Party, we have always been deeply convinced of the function of social inclusion of culture, as an instrument of territorial remotivation, of overcoming also the social differences of people and as an instrument to provide those means that, if cultural, are also democratic and positive for employment. It is 22.2 million euros that will go to the 14 metropolitan cities and inclusion projects and, from what we have learned, 700,000 euros will be allocated to the city capital of each metropolitan city, to which is added a proportional share based on the population living in that municipality. We believe that these are truly important resources, which will also be used to support the activities of live entertainment in peripheral areas and which will concern both those already funded under the Single Fund for Shows (FUS) and professional bodies that have been operating for at least three years. It seems to us to be a crucial funding line. We therefore ask whether the Ministry intends to make this line stable. Departure is very important, but it is also very important that the initiative can last over time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u5	The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u6	Mr President, as Senator Rampi, whom I thank, has said, we have decided to allocate EUR 22.2 million of more resources available on the FUS 2021 to support live entertainment activities, in all forms, in peripheral areas. A distribution criterion has been adopted, identifying the metropolitan areas, which obviously have a greater number of peripheral areas and major problems within them, allocating a fixed figure to each metropolitan area and a second part, amounting to €12.2 million, depending on the population. This means that there are approximately one million to over four million for Rome, based on the fixed quota ratio and the resident population. These funds are intended for live entertainment activities, whose organizers will have to be selected by public call that will make the municipalities the capital of the metropolitan areas. The idea around which to reason - and I believe that from this point of view it can be a very important signal - is not simply to bring some culture to the outskirts, to their inhabitants - musical activities, theatre, dance, live shows - which is already in itself a fundamental element. It is also a question of adding these resources to what the municipalities already use for summer activities and live shows, trying to reverse flows. In other words, we try to organize quality events in important spaces so that, once in a while, it is not only the inhabitants of the outskirts who go to the centers of the cities to see a show, a concert, a quality initiative, but also the citizens of the center move towards the outskirts, offering the means to the municipal administrations to organize attractive activities. I believe that this is an important element. We will see how this year will work, how the bans will work and how the municipalities will use them. I fully agree that it would be good to make the instrument permanent, and that is my and the Ministry's will. This will obviously depend on the resources that the budget will make available to the FUS for next year. I would like - even if the decision, on my proposal, will then go to the High Council of the Show and other levels for approval - that the instrument should become definitive for the urban suburbs, if anything extending it at a later time also to other densely populated areas that are not part of the metropolitan cities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u7	I call Senator Rampi to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u8	Mr President, we can only say that we are satisfied, partly because as a Democratic Party, almost three years ago, we had tabled a proposal for a law that was going in this direction. This bill today is for the attention of the entire Culture Commission and has become a cross-cutting project, which no longer belongs only to one side. We think that perhaps with this bill we could help precisely the path of stabilisation. We are indeed convinced that, starting from the peripheral areas of the cities, also identifying other types of suburbs in our so complex national territory, we could with culture really reverse a process and produce an effective inclusion. We are therefore very pleased and will work on this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u9	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-03092 on the granting of an "open" license for the use of images of the National Museum of Matera, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u10	Minister, the decision to publish online the images of the Italian vases of the Rizzon collection, in delivery to the National Museum of Matera in open access mode, and therefore - I read from the press release of February I - free of charge for any purpose, was presented by some press as a progress, an act of foresight of the director, an unprecedented development in Italy for a national museum, according to the press release. That is indeed the case, because industry legislation prohibits it, as you know, Minister. That illegitimate choice not only violates the regulatory framework in force, but also threatens to produce an erarial damage equal to the amount of fees not collected. The EU Directive 2019/790 on copyright and rights related to the digital single market has been transposed in Italy by Legislative Decree No 177 of 2021, which inserts Article 32-c in the 1941 law on copyright, maintaining for cultural goods the provisions on reproduction referred to in Articles 106 and 108 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape. For article 108, paragraph 1, of the code, it is the authority that has in delivery the state property goods to determine - case by case - the concession fees and fees, having regard above all to the use and the destination of the reproductions. Subject to authorisation, instead, reproduction activities carried out for the purposes of study, research, free expression of thought or creative expression as well as promotion of knowledge of the cultural heritage are free. With regard to Directive 2019/1024, which regulates the re-use of public sector data, in the case of public cultural institutions, it expressly provides for the sale of reproductions for remuneration. The Italian legislator has therefore included in Legislative Decree No. 36 of 2006 Article 12, which includes, among the data of high value, those of museums, libraries and public archives. The special autonomy enjoyed by the National Museum of Matera does not allow the director to stumble with his French friends, Minister, and to violate Italian law, nor does it allow the scientific committee that should support it. It's not enough. A well-founded censorship of the correctness and transparency of the non-competitive selection that placed the official architect in question, thanks to a paragraph 6, at the direction of the National Museum of Matera, accompanied the admission to the registration of his appointment by the Court of Auditors. The Ministry has quite ignored it in order to reiterate the choice of the director-general museums. Now, that silence and the secretary-general also silences him in the face of liberalisation regardless of the purposes of the images of the Rizzon collection. But the political address belongs to you, Minister, and not to lawyer Nastasi or Professor Casini or Professor Osanna, the new trimurti. I ask you how you intend to exercise it in order to ensure the restoration and respect of legality also in the so-called Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u11	First of all, I would like to thank you, Senator, for the so-called Ministry of Culture, which is an innovative definition. With reference to the question, I quote what the competent Directorate-General of the National Museum has told me. The National Museum of Matera has concluded an agreement of valorization with the Centre Jean Bérard aimed, in the context of a valorization of the cultural heritage in custody at the museum, and in particular of the ceramic collections in the classical-Hellenistic age, at the realization of photographic campaigns. This agreement did not provide for and does not provide for any burden on the administration, with the sole objective of spreading knowledge of the above-mentioned assets through shared research activities financed entirely by the institutions. The Centre Jean Bérard is responsible for various research programmes with public funds as part of the archaeological mission in South Italy, and is particularly interested in ceramics, precisely, in the classical-Hellenistic era. The production of digital images has therefore concerned only some of the pieces of the museum collections of greatest importance and relevance in the context of the project of valorization. Article 108 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, in regulating the fees for the reproduction of goods kept at museums, provides that "No fee shall be due for reproductions requested or carried out by private individuals for personal use or for study purposes, or by public or private entities for valorisation purposes, provided that they are implemented for non-profit purposes." The activity of valorization of the heritage and dissemination of knowledge of the Magno-Greek art by means of a photographic campaign, carried out by the national direction of the Museum of Matera, fully falls within the scope governed by the aforementioned norm, in view of the institutional purpose of the entities involved exclusively aimed at study and research activities. Moreover, in accordance with Article 108 (4) the institutions have entered into an insurance policy necessary to prevent any damage, even merely eventual, to the cultural assets of that project, and the management has emphasized in any case that the gratuitousness, provided for in Article 108 for cases such as the one under consideration, is not in any way likely to produce an economic damage to the administration, but that it can have positive repercussions in terms of valorization of the assets that the museum holds in delivery, also from the point of view of promotion and dissemination of their knowledge. However, given the current regulatory framework in this field, further details are being carried out at the relevant ministerial offices on the terms and procedures of the Museo di Matera project, with the result that initiatives may be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u12	Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u13	Minister, I cannot say that I am satisfied despite the final reassurance of your speech. In fact, I must say that I remain outraged as a citizen and representative of the citizens for his answer. The directors of museums with special autonomy do not own the state property they have in delivery and cannot arrange contra legem. Neither can you, nor can you allow others to do so. What you have allowed the architect Mauro, already technical director in Pompeii without question, that is to say to violate the legislation and to boast about it, but I am no more surprised because all of them, all the boys who came from Pompeii, mentor Professor Osanna in his various roles, do daily damage to the image of the Ministry and to the coffers of the State. The Court of Auditors contested Gabriel Zuchtriegel's call to Pompeii's irregular secretariat, because he was a pupil of Osanna and had published with him. If you had prevented that call, we would have saved ourselves both the scandal of the theatre of Elea-Velia, and the museum Casa delle witches in a railway casing of the late nineteenth century, financed for almost eight million euros, and we risked that the legacy passed directly to Toniolo, then hijacked in Sardinia. Today we have the same situation with Enrico Rinaldi, who has moved from Pompei to the Directorate General Museums and has now been appointed director of the Archaeological Park of Sepino in Molise, just established (in fact, created specifically to make it the autonomous park of Ales, from the director to the last caretaker). Since you made known his appointment, there is no longer any curriculum of Rinaldi on the net and - above all - there is no act that proves what is claimed in the press release of the Ministry, that is, neither university teaching, nor the assignments of RUP and management work on behalf of the Ministry itself. Minister, it is no longer a matter of opacity, but of systematic distortion of reality in order to occupy key places and create new ones with the boys coming from Pompeii, clones of the superdirector, always intent on celebrating their glory and not only in the high heavens. Citronerie... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u14	Senator Corrado, you've run out of time. Considering that she deals with culture, she will certainly have a wide vocabulary that allows her to keep a tone even controversial, but not offensive.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u15	Minister, we all know, since we have been repeating this for a couple of years now, that the live entertainment sector is one of the most affected by the restrictions linked to the pandemic. Only last year did 82% of public spending be lost and it is estimated that about 30% of employees in the sector lost their jobs or were forced by events to re-employ themselves in sectors other than their own. Under Christmas the inevitable restrictions prevented that sector from taking a few breaths of oxygen due to the Christmas holidays. In all this, the so-called ristori- bis decree was fired last July and its Ministry has not yet published the ban that allows performers to access those lean sums. I ask you, therefore, what is the reason for this delay and whether it is not also appropriate to review the rules and documentation necessary to have access to this public contribution. I am all the further away from the idea of encouraging tax evasion, but I wonder if it makes sense to ask for strict respect for the DURC, and therefore for the fiscal fidelity of the micro companies in the entertainment sector, which - in these two years - in many cases have not been able to comply with all the deadlines and which are seen in this way also denied the right to a refreshment that, at this point, has the value of pure survival. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u16	Mr President, as Senator Cangini knows, the damage the sector has suffered is enormous and a lot of resources are paid to them, which have been used in all areas of live entertainment, even those that traditionally had no public resources and had never had access to the Single Fund for entertainment. For the first time, however, both workers and businesses have access to these resources through the Emergency Fund and dozens of implementing decrees in relation to legislative measures. With the last decree-law, the so-called support-ter, which dates back to January of this year, the Emergency Fund has been refinanced with 50 million euros for the current part and 25 million for the capital part, precisely because of the continuing crisis and the events to which Senator Cangini referred. I refer, that is, to the fact that, despite the reopening, there have been many restrictive measures, for reasons of security, that have prevented theaters and cinemas from having the normal functionality and, therefore, the normal access of the public, and this has happened even if it has been recorded, in particular in the field of theater and concerts, a much stronger return (unfortunately, stronger return of the return to cinemas). The notices that refer to the aforementioned decree-law of January last are being prepared and then there will be the publication of the notices in favour of the operators. With regard to the subject - it is well-founded - of the DURC, I would like to point out that the provision concerning the requirement for the regularity of contribution provided for by the DURC for access by companies engaged in entertainment activities to all types of grants, grants or state grants, is based on a primary provision of law, not on an administrative act. The ministerial decrees as well as the notices are all sources implied by the law in providing for this requirement and, therefore, do nothing but conform - as they must - to the primary norm. Moreover, by applying the regulatory provisions on DURC, the Ministry has tried to temper them by granting contributions also in favour of those subjects who have provided to regularize their contributory position in the period following the submission of the application and who, therefore, were in order with the payment of the social security contributions at the time of the contribution and not at the time of the delivery of the application; this also following the invitation of the aforementioned bodies to withhold from the sums due by the companies mentioned above the amount corresponding to the contributory debt established. In the light of this framework, I agree with the issue that in emergency some measures should be relaxed, but I believe, Senator Cangini, that legislative action is needed and I believe that Parliament is the only body that can obviously change that rule, to which we will be happy to adapt if amended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Cangini to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u17	Mr President, let us say that I trust in the government's support for possible legislative action on this issue. I am pleased to know - and it is well known - that a third ban is being issued, but the incongruity remains that the second ban has not yet been cleared, which dates back to six months ago. Minister, all of us in this House and in this House are facing the problem of how to restore and render due honour to those doctors and nurses who have treated and treated our bodies at this pandemic stage. I believe that we should also have the same attention to those musicians, actors and performers who care for our souls and lighten our spirit, because in my opinion they do not render a minor public service.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u18	Senator Cucca has the right to explain the question 3-03100 on support for the production system as a result of energy increases, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u19	Minister, I would like to say that the energy crisis opened during 2021 was the consequence of a particularly difficult period due to weather, geopolitical and exceptional market conditions. These conditions have clearly led to a sharp increase in light and gas prices, bringing out all the structural problems in both the national and European sectors. The worrying rise in prices has also reverberated in the rise in electricity prices in Italy and is the main cause of the increase in gas and electricity bills, mainly due to the fact that natural gas prices have increased by as much as 660 percent. Despite the measures already taken by the Government with the various successive measures, intended to contain the increase in the costs of the bills, it has been estimated that the increase for the standard family under the protection regime will be 55% for the electricity bills and 41.8% for that of the gas in the first quarter of 2022. The impact on household spending is obviously very heavy. The choice of States to pursue long-term objectives, such as decarbonisation of production systems and mitigation of global warming - from a high - has favoured investments in the generation of energy from renewable sources, thus leading to a clear expansion of global demand for natural gas and liquefied natural gas, fuel bridge in the energy transition process. On the other hand, however, this choice has discouraged investment in energy production from other fossil sources, thus leading to the need for interruptions and upgrading of key gas infrastructure. Lower generation of electricity in Europe than in 2020, followed by a fall in nuclear power plants and an increase in coal prices, has contributed to intensifying energy crises; the lack of gas supply to the European Union has posed significant structural problems related to internal dependence for more than 50% of the supply of gas sources from one supplier (Russia), as well as the problems we all know about the current situation between that country and Ukraine. In addition, the cost of the bills for companies has almost doubled and the current energy situation has brought out a number of structural issues and problems, so immediate action is needed, such as the allocation of public resources to contain the expensive bills. Having said all this, we would like to know what measures the Minister has put in place to help companies that have faced huge losses as a result of the increase in their bills and what he intends to take for the relaunch of the Italian production system; all this considered, moreover, that daily we read in the newspapers reports of companies forced to close or reduce their business precisely because of these impressive increases, and all the more so for individual families that face enormous costs.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u20	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to respond to the Senator by thanking him for focusing his question also on the reflection that the increase in the energy bill has on the business system and, in particular, in the so-called energy intensive sectors. Much has been said about the causes of this rise in prices, is being discussed, and many are also wondering about the long-term and medium-long-term prospects of current price developments. The Government has intervened in an emergency repeatedly, last with the third decree-law supports of 27 January 2022, which, besides acting again to try to reduce and cushion the impact on the bills for the families, has also rightly dedicated itself to the impact on the productive system, resetting the burdens of system to the enterprises in general. With regard to so-called energy companies, it partially (and only partially) offset the extra costs of expensive energy. I am absolutely aware that this measure is not enough. I believe that tomorrow, or at any rate quickly, the Government will take action again and try to predict or replicate for the second quarter the measures that we have already adopted in January. In some cases we will also try to solve application problems and objectively the cases of self-production of energy - to give an example - which are substantially affected twice by the increase in the price of gas. It is clear that the amount of the increases would require financial availabilities far beyond those permitted by the current budgetary instrument. The Ministry of Economy and Finance is trying very hard to build a significant financial dowry; but, on the unchanged budget, it is obviously very difficult to give a complete and definitive response to this type of phenomenon. More generally, looking at the medium- to long-term horizon, it is clear that we must make certain types of policies. What we can certainly do today, especially on natural gas, is increase production, manage storage much better and strategically supply, even if - as is evident - the international geopolitical dynamics create us some problem that is not exactly in our availability and our levers. What we have to do is try to increase national production and somehow introduce mechanisms, which are already under study and which I believe and hope will become a rule in the near future, of price-calming with regard to certain production sectors. It is a kind of challenge that forces us to act in an emergency, but that inevitably leads Italy and Europe also to a medio-long-term reflection that concerns strategic sovereignty and also the political autonomy of Europe and Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u22	Senator Cucca has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u23	Thank you, Minister, especially for the clarity and, if you will, also for the sincerity with which you have dealt with these issues, making correct reference to the current conditions. I believe that this is the right way to find a solution to the problems which you, in a very precise way, have outlined. We know that current resources are not enough and that we need different measures. We therefore trust a great deal in your work and in the work of the Ministry that you direct so that they are implemented in immediacy and are not postponed. These issues have really been talked about for a long time, but certainly never as today it is necessary to deal with these problems in a very severe way; on the other hand, never as today there are the conditions also to arrive at a solution, although certainly not immediate. We are sure that you will take care of the Italian problem, because it really is the survival of a sector, of a very important production system, but above all of the survival of our families.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u24	Senator Calandrini has the right to explain the question 3-03099 on the effects of the recent restrictions on building bonuses on the business system, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u25	Minister, this question arises on the basis of some of your statements to the press in recent days, in which you have said that the superbonus has worked, but it is drugging construction, while there are other sectors that need to be followed, such as automotive, where the switch to electricity risks creating an explosion in terms of employment. Certainly the scenario you set out is serious and worthy of attention, but we do not quite understand the purpose. Until now, for twenty years now, the car sector has always been used as an ATM by the State. Now we seem to understand from his words that the automotive needs support, but he cannot receive them because the superbonus has been introduced. We do not think that this is the approach to be taken in this case. The superbonus was a great opportunity for the construction sector: proof of this is that it has favoured the birth of thousands of companies, has facilitated the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and has generated important revenues for the state's coffers in terms of VAT, Irpef, Ires and IRAP, which have come from those tax payments related to the thousands of yards opened in the past year. You see, Minister, that is not what we say about Brothers of Italy, but that is what authoritative studies of the sector and analyses made also by our parliamentary offices in the budget say. We would not like his words to reveal the desire to favour a sector that rightly needs attention, but to the detriment of another that has worked very well and that, apart from the scams that have been there, and that undoubtedly must be opposed by all means, does not deserve the stop that is being imposed on him in these days, since the decree-law supports-b, with the umpteenth retroactive modification that only creates confusion, uncertainty and restrains investment by honest entrepreneurs. So, Minister, with this question of ours, we ask you whether you can in any way give assurances about the initiatives that the Government intends to take to give certainty to this sector. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u26	Senator Calandrini, I'm sure you read my entire interview, which referred to 90% of the need to dedicate and focus policy on the automotive sector. Unfortunately, I already have several crisis tables and I will have more, with thousands of people who will lose their jobs. In that interview I did not contest the superbonus as a measure of industrial policy in favour of the construction sector, which worked (and I took note of it). However, if I have a worker who loses his job and I do not have a subsidy measure, while that same superbonus is aimed at those who potentially earn 300,000 or 400,000 euros and restructure the third or fifth house, in my opinion, for my Ministry, there is a problem. I need to draw Parliament and my colleagues from the government to the fact that similar attention and similar resources must also be devoted to other industrial sectors, which are currently facing an epochal crisis. [[Applause]] I therefore take this opportunity to make it clear that I am not against the superbonus. But we must all ask ourselves whether this type of extension is fair and socially responsible. Parliament is sovereign, it has decided to do so and I respect it. Then I hope that very soon Parliament and the Government will pay as much attention to the epochal challenges of the automotive sector, otherwise we will face an epochal crisis, in direct production and induced. Returning to the superbonus speech, the government intervened, even if crudely (if I can use this term), with the blockade of the disposals. I believe that this problem, which has objectively created a situation of blockage and serious tension in the sector, will be solved very quickly by an emergency measure, but it will also contain other measures to normalise economic activity linked to building and superbonus, including - I believe I can anticipate - new sanctioning instruments to repress and avoid the fraud system. So we have to contend with two opposing requirements. The first is the need to push the economy as far as possible towards recovery; to this end - as I said in the interview and I repeat now - not only the superbonus has played a fundamental role, but the whole system of incentives for building, because they are directly transmitted to the economy in the phase of the great crisis. But today we cannot think that the country's industrial future is only construction; it is important, but there is also manufacturing, which I remember, as far as Italy is concerned, is the second manufacture in Europe, behind only Germany. We cannot think of an Italy which, in the future, is not in charge of the most technologically advanced sectors. We must all seek together to have a debate - I have put a subject of debate - on the new frontiers of the Italian economy and industry. So good the superbonus for building and good the building, although we have to somehow limit the wrong things that are there, but we also have to devote so much attention to all other industrial sectors, which up to now have not received the same attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u27	I give the floor to Senator Calandrini to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u28	Minister, I do not share your answer at all, because you refer to people who have EUR 300,000 or EUR 400,000 in income and to those who have the fourth or fifth homes. In the meantime it doesn't work that way, because we stop at the main house and at most at the second house. But I can also tell you that we spend EUR 10 billion on citizenship income; so, demagogy by demagogy, let us try to tell ourselves clearly how things are. [[Applause from Senator De Bertoldi]] We could use a lot of these sums for the subject we are dealing with today. However, regardless of these considerations, your reply, Minister, does not convince us. We have confidence that, as far as the measure of the superbonus is concerned, we have given answers to thousands of families and thousands of companies that represent the backbone of our country's economic system. We hope that the measure of the superbonus may no longer be changed since, since it was introduced, we have had 13 or 14 changes and that we can proceed with an orderly path that allows us to arrive at the natural expiry of these bonuses that, as you know, are imminent: the sismabonus purchases will expire on 30 June, while the superbonus of 110 percent will expire on 31 December 2022 for single-family houses and 31 December 2023 for condominiums. If we want to, then it is a question of giving some legal certainty and avoiding the retroactivity of the rule. I hope, therefore, that there will be a further recovery from the issue of superbonus.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u29	Senator Tosato has the right to explain the question 3-03096 on the productive and occupational revival of the ACC plant in the province of Belluno, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the trade union act concerns the business crisis of ACC Compressors, former Zanussi Elettromeccanica, a historic company located in the Belluno area, founded in 1960 and leader in the production of compressors for domestic use. I am speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the League, in particular of my Venetian colleagues Romeo, Candura, Fregolent, Ostellari, Pizzol, Vallardi, Zuliani and ideally - allow me - also on behalf of my late colleague Paolo Saviane who came from that territory and who has always represented him with a great spirit of service and passion. [[Applause]] In 2003 ACC Compressors was sold by Electrolux to a private equity fund and entered financial crisis in 2009. In 2013 it was admitted to the extraordinary administration procedure and in 2014 the Ministry of Economic Development awarded the procedure of disposal of the company complex in favor of the Chinese group Wanbao, giving life to the company Wanbao-ACC. The industrial plan of the new company provided for the re-launch of the plant in the area of Belluno. However, strong competitive pressures and limited investment in R &amp; D have had a significant impact on prices, so that a positive contribution margin cannot be obtained. The shareholders initially complied with the commitments made at the Ministry of Economic Development, covering the operating losses until 2019. However, in March 2020, the company requested a declaration of insolvency and, following the adoption of the appeal in March 2020, the company was admitted to the extraordinary administration procedure in May 2020. In May 2021, a competitive procedure had been initiated for the sale of the business branch which had raised the interest of the main global operators in the sector, but no offers were received on the expiry date of 6 October of the same year. On 19 October 2021, the Ministry of Economic Development authorised the reopening of the competitive procedure and, as we have been told, three official expressions of interest were received from the Ministry. In the final analysis, he asked what initiatives the Minister had to take in order to quickly identify the most suitable path to guarantee employment prospects and a productive revival of the ACC plant in Belluno, in an area characterized by other crisis situations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Tosato for retracing the history and history of this company: crisis, rescue with a Chinese company, which in turn has fled, taking away technology and expertise, so that the company has fallen back into the crisis, which has been managed according to the tools and procedures of our legislation. Thank you for recalling the fact that a company is not simply an economic value; for a territory it is also a cultural fact, proper to the culture of the work of these areas, with the passion that all subjects, local authorities, regions, unions, have manifested towards the Ministry in order to try to arrive at a solution so that that company can survive, taking into account the changing world. The crisis table set up at the Ministry of Economic Development has finally found a solution, after many difficulties and many researches of potential investors, in the sense that on 11 February we authorized the award of the business complex to the company SEST SpA, based in Limana, Belluno, which belongs to the Italian group LU-VE, one of the world's first operators in the field of air heat exchangers and listed in the Euronext segment of the Milan Stock Exchange. I remember that in 2020 it recorded a consolidated turnover of over 400 million euros. The binding purchase proposal by SEST SpA provides in particular for the complete industrial conversion of the company complex in order to expand the production of static heat exchangers for refrigeration counters, air conditioning, heat pumps, already present in the nearby Limana plant. The market-based procedures have not revealed entrepreneurial initiatives for the traditional, typical production and marketing of compressors for domestic use. On the other hand, as also reported in the question itself, the concept of the compressor for domestic use imposes productions on a very large scale that are neither compatible nor replicable in our country. This first and important step has been made possible thanks to the commitment of those who have followed the path of reality and concreteness, abandoning paths that we can define as "wanderers." This case is paradigmatic also because it intervenes - and of this I believe that it can be proud also that territory - a company of the territory to save a situation of crisis generated by the incorrect behaviour of multinational companies with investments of predatory character, but at the same time implementing also a conversion of production. The old production in fact is no longer viable at competitive prices in Italy, but in activities, sectors and collateral productions can be replicated. This seriously impacted process of industrial conversion and transformation, not only in this case, but in many other cases, since the digital environmental revolution, really requires us to reason in the face of changes to the industrial system in an innovative and flexible way. All of them, politicians, social partners, business associations and trade unions, must interpret this new phase, with its strategic implications, in the correct way to find solutions for the benefit of the territories and, in particular, the employees and workers concerned. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u32	Senator Tosato may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The interrogators and the League Group are pleased with the Government's response. Thank you and, unlike those who preceded me, I did not catch propaganda in his words, but concrete answers, useful for the common good. [[Applause]] The manufacturing and industrial sector is fundamental for the growth and well-being of a country, as you said in a previous intervention. Companies located in mountain and foothill territories must be defended, representing a fundamental outlet for the employment of young people in those territories. The alternative is the abandonment of one's own land in search of fortune elsewhere, starting from big cities or abroad for those who have the opportunity. The effects of the pandemic, the dear energy and the lack of raw materials are seriously jeopardising the maintenance of Italy's production system, already in crisis in many sectors for reasons of competitiveness. The Government and Parliament have a duty to deal with this difficult situation with great commitment and unity of intent. We are pleased that in the case of the historic company in Belluno the Minister is succeeding in achieving the comforting results because the salvation of every single job means saving a family from deep economic, social and personal crises. The task assigned to you is burdensome, but we are sure that the Ministry of Economic Development is in very good hands. The League Group will always be at your side and that of the Government, in the front line to defend companies and jobs. We still believe that Italy belongs to the culture of work [[Applause]] ; we are convinced that Italy cannot abandon its vocation as an industrialised country. Each of us must play our part in this direction. At this difficult stage, we could not stand on the sidelines and watch and criticize what others did or did not do; it would only be a convenient position. Others have made this choice; we have chosen a more difficult path for us, but more useful to the country. [[Applause.]] We thank you, Minister, and we are pleased that the families of ACC Compressor workers can look to the future with greater hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u34	Senator Girotto has the right to explain the question 3-03097 on the process of industrial conversion with a view to economic and environmental sustainability, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u35	Minister, climate change and environmental degradation are now a huge threat to Europe and the world. To overcome these challenges, in July 2020 the European Commission presented the European green deal, which will transform the Union into a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy, ensuring that net greenhouse gas emissions are no longer generated in 2050 and that economic growth is dissociated from resource use. Member States are therefore committed to addressing the needs of epochal change in relation to new lifestyles and patterns of consumption of goods, which necessarily involve a radical transformation of processes with a strong push for innovation in production and consumption systems. Italy, in response to these challenges, through the National Committee for the ecological transition, has equipped itself with a Plan for the ecological transition (PTE) that coordinates the policies on the connection with the European green new deal and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). The ETP identifies the actions, measures, sources of funding and the chronoprogram, as well as the administrations responsible for implementing the individual measures, divided into eight areas of action envisaged, for which specific working groups will be set up: decarbonisation, mobility, air quality, soil, disaster, water resources, infrastructure, biodiversity, the sea, promotion of circular economics, bioeconomy and sustainable agriculture. A strategic role, in line with the planning of the ETP, is played by the industrial production sector that, in order to maintain its competitiveness, will have to adapt the old production systems to new models, strongly innovative and environmentally sustainable. To this end, it is necessary for the State, through measures and actions of detail, to accompany in this historical passage the productive fabric, in particular the so-called abbot and automotive sectors. At present, some instruments are available to support structural interventions aimed at decarbonisation and conversion, with resources available from the Emission trading scheme (ETS), the PNRR, the Transition Plan 4.0 and the Decarbonisation Fund provided for in the last budget law. However, its application needs to be speeded up by introducing and supporting with conviction new technological tools and innovations, in particular aimed at supporting the energy autonomy of productive activities, through the creation of configurations, such as energy communities and direct self-consumption, which allow to reduce energy costs. I would ask you to know how you feel that you support the process of innovation with a view to ecological transition and, in particular, what measures you intend to take to accompany the different industrial sectors along this path, ensuring the competitiveness and environmental sustainability of companies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u36	Senator Girotto, you put exactly the strategic theme of how our country can face the great challenge of the environmental revolution and the digital revolution and its translation into the new industrial and economic system of the country. It is the activity that is evidently dedicated to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan with interventions of a transversal nature in which the Ministry of the ecological transition is obviously in the front row and the Ministry of Economic Development acts as an element of connection with the industrial system and, in particular, I always call the manufacturing system because without manufacturing the country sits economically. The tools at our disposal are the usual ones, or rather the development contracts, the innovation agreements, the IPCEI, that is strategic interventions, recognized as such at European level, on which we are able to involve many productive realities of the country and that also allow to overcome what up to now has been one of the main limitations to a public intervention of the State in order to comply with this phase of transition, that is the discipline of state aid. Fortunately - I say - at this stage, even in relation to the pandemic, the European Commission has changed its attitude on this. There has never been a great phase of industrial revolution and conversion without an accompaniment, within the limits due, by the State. This concerns all industrial sectors, some of them more exposed and others less. I would like to give an example as regards the automotive industry, which you referred to in your question and which I am insisting on these days because some countries have already taken decisions and others are taking decisions. We obviously did something. I remember the transitional fund included in the budget law, which you called for; the initiative that we are finalizing with the Deposit and Loan Fund for EUR 850 million and that aims to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the digital and innovative ecological transition; the development contracts for EUR 1.2 billion in support of strategic and innovative large productive investment programmes; the IPCEI, which I mentioned, with the allocation of EUR 1.5 billion in addition to the budget of EUR 500 million already available. This is in addition to all the deployment of forces on the Transition 4.0 plan and - I would like to remember - the new call for innovative machinery, aimed at facilitating the less developed regions and the investment programmes proposed by small and medium-sized companies. Is that enough? Probably not, because the amount of resources needed is even higher. However, it is a matter not only of money, but of cultural change. The availability and ability to "reskill" are needed, with training for all workers who will inevitably lose their jobs in some areas overcome by the environmental and digital revolution and who can be usefully employed in the new sectors that come forward. Therefore, this is a challenge, which, as I have already said in reply to your colleagues, really involves all the political forces, Parliament, the Government and the social forces and on which we need to discuss and focus more attention. Unfortunately, however, policy tends to focus on small short-term interventions. In all this, of course, we work to rebuild demand, because in this form of industrial and environmental revolution we must restructure supply, but at the same time we must not forget demand. At this moment in Italy there are no incentives for the purchase of environmentally compatible cars (electric and not only). The market is completely stationary and I have publicly called for measures similar to those in all other European countries. In this way, in fact, it would be possible to drive demand and to induce and convince all the players present, for example in the automotive chain, to make investments also assisted and subsidised by the State. All the instruments I have mentioned (from development contracts to decline) are forms of State intervention in which the public resource can intervene for a percentage that is not totalitarian and not even majority, but nevertheless significant in these forms of investment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u37	I give the floor to Senator Girotto to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u38	Minister, I am partially satisfied and very concerned because I would have liked another type of response. Now we have to choose what the technologies of the future will be and we can't choose the wrong ones, because if we make a mistake we go out of the market and, therefore, we waste public money. We can do drugs and keep companies alive, but if we do that on outdated technologies, they're not gonna sell long-term products anyway, so we're gonna waste public money. Even in the reply to a colleague, you mentioned the greatest use of gas, but I have not heard a word about simplifying the permitting for renewable sources, which are the main solution to the energy crisis, especially for companies. We have tabled a motion to give companies more strength and to give them a tax credit on energy self-production costs, because we must focus on making them as independent as possible. I haven't heard a single word about picking up extra profits from fossil sources. We took extra profits from renewable sources, we asked for a sacrifice, but we didn't take them from fossil sources. Renewables are a labour intensive sector while fossils are a capital intensive sector. I have not heard a word about one of the main instruments to combat unfair competition and to encourage other countries to make the ecological transition, namely carbon border tax, and carbon border adjustment mechanism, which must be the main mechanism. I would like the government to focus more also on financial speculation, because the huge storm of rising prices that we have is certainly due to objective situations (no debate on this), but there is also a strong financial component that is very little talked about. I would like to reiterate that we do not want to waste public money, so we must focus on truly sustainable technologies for the future and I hope that your Ministry will actually focus on them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u39	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-405.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.02 p.m.
