ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 30 June. In today's session, the general discussion on the decree-law on further measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will take place until its conclusion. At 3 p.m., communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022 remain confirmed. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides for the second Senate resolution on the draft Constitutional Law on sport in the Constitution, where concluded by the Commission. The motion to support the work of the International Criminal Court, with particular reference to cases of women victims of violence during wars, will also be discussed. Since the Government has announced the position of the question of confidence on the decree-law on the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the Conference of Leaders has organised the relevant debate. Once the amendment to the decree-law has been received - presumably in the evening of tomorrow - the Presidency will proceed with the assessment of eligibility and the transmission of the text to the 5th standing Commission. We shall then proceed directly to the explanations of vote and to the call. The work of the House and the Commission will be suspended from 8 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. at the request of a parliamentary group. The schedule of next week's proceedings provides for the discussion of the following measures: decree-law municipal elections and referendums, currently being examined by the Chamber of Deputies; communications by the President, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the related bill amending the Industrial Property Code; law of European Delegation 2021 and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union; report by the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities in relation to a conflict of attribution concerning former Senator Stefano Esposito. Thursday 30 will take place the question time, with the presence of the Ministers of the interior and of the justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 20 June 2022, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 30 June: [[Tuesday, June 21 h. 9,30 - Drawing of Law No. 2598 - Decree-Law No. 36, Further measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (decades on June 29) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022 (Tuesday, June 21, at 3 p.m.) - Drawing of Constitutional Law No. 747-2262-2474-2478-2480-2538-B - Sport in Constitution (second resolution of the Senate) (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) (where concluded by the Commission) - Motion No. 489, Faith and others, on support for the activity of the International Criminal Court, with particular reference to cases of women victims of violence during the wars Wednesday 22 " h. 9,30 Thursday 23 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, June 28 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 41, Administrative elections and referendums (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on July 3rd) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2- bis, of the Regulation, on the bill n. 2631 - Changes to the code of industrial property (connected to the maneuver of public finance) - Drawing of law n. 2481 - Law of European delegation 2021 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) and related doc. LXXXVI, No 5 and Doc. LXXXVII, No 5 - Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union - Doc. XVI, point 10 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on a conflict of attribution concerning former Senator Stefano Esposito - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 30, 3 p.m.) Wednesday 29 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 30 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 41, Administrative elections and referendums) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the House of Deputies. Amendments to draft law No 2481 (European Delegation Law 2021) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Thursday 23 June. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2598 (Decree-Law No 36, Further measures for implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 45' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 35' Mixed 35' FdI 27' IV-PSI 24' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 23' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 27' FIBP-UDC 24' PD 21' Mixed 21' FdI 16' IV-PSI 14'+1 C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 14' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 12']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 41, Administrative elections and referendum) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 40' L-SP-PSd'Az 36' FIBP-UDC 33' PD 28' Mixed 28+5' FdI 21+5' IV-PSI 19' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 18' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 16']] Breakdown of times for discussion of draft law No 2481 (Law of European Delegation 2021) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 5, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 5 (Programmeal and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 51' L-SP-PSd'Az 45' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 35' Mixed 35+5' FdI 27+5' IV-PSI 24' C.A.L. (Constitution, Environment, Work) - Alternative-P.C-I.d.V. 23' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20']]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2598. The rapporteurs, Senators Rojc and Cangini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Rojc.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u7	Mr President, in view of the limited time available, I reserve the right to hand over the text of my report, so that it can be annexed to today's report, after briefly explaining it. Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are about to examine provides for a series of urgent measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Before briefly explaining the content of the text, for the part of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to take account of the amendments approved by the Commissions meeting 1a and 7a for the same profiles, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Cangini, for the work he has done together, the Presidents of the Commissions, the representative of the Government and all the members of the Commissions meeting, with particular reference to the colleagues of the oppositions, who have worked constructively in the long and at times difficult work to improve the text, in an attempt to give satisfactory answers to the issues that emerged during the debate in the Commissions. Thank you, of course, also go to the legislative offices for the enormous work they have done over the past few weeks. Before entering into the substance of the amendments made by the Commissions, I recall that the Decree-Law contains measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan in the field of public administration, universities and research, in financial and fiscal matters, in the field of environment, renewable sources, energy efficiency and health, digital transition, infrastructures, special economic zones, simplified logistics, in the field of tourism, justice, as well as in education, about which my colleague, Senator Cangini, will speak. This measure is therefore of absolute importance, as it aims at speeding up the achievement of specific PNRR objectives, in order to achieve milestones and targets by 30 June 2022. Under Chapter 1, laying down provisions on public administration, universities and research, Article 1 supplements the guidelines for public administrations. The new lines, at the first stage of application, shall be adopted by 30 June, subject to agreement at the Unified Conference, as provided for in an amended proposal approved. With regard to the definition of new professional profiles, the reference to knowledge of design tools and techniques and participation in national and European calls and the management of the relevant funding has been added. In Article 2, there are provisions on how to recruit and register; in particular, an amendment specified the use of a certified e-mail address and a digital home for the reception of communications relating to recruitment procedures. Further changes made by the Commissions have provided that, as from 2023, the publication of recruitment procedures on institutional sites and on the single recruitment portal exempts public administrations, including local authorities, from the obligation to publish public selections in the Official Journal. Since November 1st, it is also expected to participate persons with the requirements of proven professionalism and experience, including specialists in work psychology and human resources. Until that date, the members of the commissions will be appointed on the basis of lists of names chosen by drawing lots. Article 3 revises the rules governing the criteria and procedures for conducting competitions. The content of the evidence has been specified by an amendment, as have provisions in favour of disabled candidates. For the recruitment of specialized profiles it is expected to evaluate the relevant previous work experience, also carried out at the same administration responsible for the conduct of the procedures, as specifically amended. It has been added the forecast that the MIUR, by concluding a special three-year convention, will make use of the Mobility Information Centre and academic equivalences for the recognition of foreign degrees of study. Additional provisions concern the extension to diplomatic career access of the requirements of morality and conduct for access to the judiciary, the modification of certain time limits for staff mobility, the extension of the deadlines for procedures for overcoming the precariousness in the public administration by two years. Before the entry into force of this Decree, competitions will of course continue to be subject to the rules in force, in accordance with the principles of adequacy and proportionality, as amended in addition. Article 4 supplements the rules on employee codes of conduct of public administrations and provides for a training cycle on issues of public ethics and ethical behaviour made mandatory by a change, both in the case of recruitment and transfer, and in the case of a transition to higher roles or functions. By proceeding in a very concise manner, Article 5 gives the administrations the task of adopting measures which confer specific advantages. Article 6 amends the rules on the notice of the initiation of a voluntary mobility procedure by a public administration and the related communications by interested parties; introduces the possibility of a residence allowance for employees of Italian public administrations who operate in the European Union as seconded national experts and who do not receive similar allowances from the same Union; extends to 30 September 2022 the period within which those already engaged in socially useful work or in public utility activities may be employed in the position of supernumerary workers, by way of derogation from the organic allocation and the condition of compliance with the staff requirements plan. In addition, a new paragraph provides for the possibility for lyric-symphonic foundations to extend until 30 June 2023 the fixed-term employment contracts concluded in 2019 with artistic and technical staff. Article 7 extends to 30 June the deadline for the adoption by public administrations of the first Integrated Activity and Organisation Plan. It provides that the regions, with reference to the bodies and companies of the National Health Service, adapt their systems to the principles of the inherent discipline. An approved amendment introduced the reference to the verification and control activities of the achievement of milestones and targets of the digital transformation projects of central and local administrations. Moreover, following an amendment by the Government, the institution of the ex officio cancellation of the case from the role is reintroduced in the administrative process code. Article 7-a, introduced with the approval of the Government's amendment proposal, provides for the establishment with DPCM of the Regulatory Impact Assessment Core. Article 8, following an approved amendment, gives the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance the task of providing for ways of strengthening controls and reporting on the use of the fund. Amendments approved concern, as has been said, many applications. I see that the time available is running out, so I conclude and - as I said at the beginning - I reserve the right to submit the full text of the report. The changes made have made the text better and respond to many requests received by the numerous audit bodies during the examination of the measure and to the needs coming from various worlds of the productive sector and of the job. So, thank you for your work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Cangini.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u8	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, I think it is an important day for Parliament - and perhaps also a sign of a new beginning for Italy - because the Senate of the Republic has honored its constitutional function by exercising with seriousness, determination and firmness the legislative power that belongs to it. Members of the 1st and 7th Commission know that the conditions have been very adverse, but how much granite has been the compactness of the majority that supports the government and also the relationship with the oppositions. I think it is useless today to publicize the conflict between the powers of the State; I think it is useless today to take into account the antagonism - and in some cases even the low blows - between the Ministries of the same Government. I think it is useless today to denounce the imbalance of power between the technical and administrative level of certain ministries and the political level; this is not the time. This is the moment to be proud of the work done; a job that preludes the future of Italy, because this decree-law has in its substantial part the future of the school and also of the university, the quality of the formation of the ruling classes of tomorrow; therefore, the future of Italy. We have received from the Government a good decree-law, but with obvious shortcomings; we return to the country a better measure. We have managed to balance the rights of historians, who have rights, with the rights of young graduates who have a vocation to teaching and who have the right to find a place in the world of school. There were no resources; this was a self-financing reform by taking away resources from the school. We found the resources thanks to the compactness of the majority. Colleagues, in the field of education, as you know, Article 44 is the central article of this decree-law: it deals with the recruitment of teachers in the first and second grade school with the aim of implementing the reform of the recruitment system provided for by the PNRR. It is provided in an ordinary way that they can participate in the competitions that will be launched annually candidates who, in addition to the degree degree, have passed a university or academic course enabling initial training. This course corresponds to no less than 60 university or academic credits, must include a period of internship and end with a final test. This ordinary method of recruitment is accompanied by two more, so to speak, extraordinary: a first allows those who have carried out a service at the state school institutions for at least three years of school, even not consecutive, in the previous five years, to participate in the competition without having completed the called initial training; if contest winners, they will still be required to participate in the university or academic path of initial training, thus acquiring 30 credits. A second method of recruitment - by way of derogation from the ordinary one - is that which allows in the transitional sentence to participate in the competition also to those who have completed 30 credits of the initial training course, provided that part of the credits are of direct traineeship. If the contest winners sign an annual contract and follow up they will be required to complete the university or academic initial training course before supporting the test year and possible entry into service. The initial training is completed by the training and the continuous updating aimed at teachers of every order and grade, divided into three-year courses starting from the school year 2023-2024. The training courses are defined by the high-training school that will be established and will be under the supervision of the Ministry of Education. Participation in the training activity takes place on a voluntary basis for the majority of teachers, becoming compulsory only for teachers entered in the role following the adaptation of the contract. Following the completion of the checks provided for, the teacher shall be granted an economic incentive the entity of which is established in the context of national bargaining. With the examination in the referent just concluded we have identified alternative ways of financial coverage compared to those envisaged in the decree-law that, as we know, were based on the reduction and the progressive cutting of the teaching paper and on the cutting of the strengthening staff. In this regard, the resources for the teaching card have been safeguarded for the current year, for 2023, for a substantial part of 2024 and the Government, as you know, has committed itself to finding additional resources already from the next budget law. In addition, there are fewer direct cuts to the teachers of the training staff and I consider this to be an excellent result for all of us, given that of course it will focus on the resources freed from the natural reduction of teaching staff from 2026, in relation to the demographic decline of the student population. In terms of merit, I would point out that: the contents of the initial training have been integrated; the final profile of the professional skills of the qualified teacher has been introduced; the written test of the initial training course consists of a critical analysis of the school training carried out and a simulated lesson; the internship and laboratory activities provided for in the initial training are carried out in the presence, for the remainder it is allowed the use of telematic methods for a maximum of 20%; access to the training courses is normally possible already at the end of the first three years of university studies. We have arranged the rationalization and the amalgamation of the competition classes: they were and are 120, they are too many. The winners of the competition who have participated in the recruitment without having the qualification are entitled to the qualifying university training course; until 31 December 2024 they are admitted to participate in the contests without having previously obtained the qualification those who, by 31 October 2022, have obtained the 24 credits provided by the previous order. During the transitional period, it is expected that, within the limits of the reserves of posts established by decree of the Ministries of Education, University and Scientific Research, those who have provided at least three years of service of the last five on places of support in the schools of the national education system, which, as is well known, includes equal schools. In case of exhaustion of the rankings referred to the ordinary competitions for teachers on the support, until 31 December 2025 the sliding of the rankings is allowed. Article 46 amends the provisions on the simplified procedures for ordinary competitions for teaching staff. Compared to the text presented in the Senate, we considered it appropriate that the final written test should be articulated with open-ended questions: said in the vulgar, colleagues, we abolished the crosses. With regard to Article 45, we considered it appropriate to use the teaching staff who serve in areas with a risk of depopulation and negative indices of social, economic and cultural status and school dispersal. We allow school managers with responsibilities on more complex to be able to avail of one or two teachers exempted from teaching for collaborative activities in the performance of administrative and organizational functions. Finally, I would like to point out the approval of an important amendment in the field of universities and research: the introduction of scientific-disciplinary groups in scientific-disciplinary fields; the replacement of research grants by employment contracts aimed at carrying out specific research projects; the replacement of current types of type A and type B fixed-term researcher with a single post as a fixed-term university researcher, who holds a contract of a total duration of six years. The researcher will be able to be part of the role of second-class professor following an internal evaluation procedure. Universities are allowed to employ highly professional staff with an indeterminate technologist status. Colleagues, we've had little time. The decree-law arrived in the Senate on April 30th, May 4th we began to work it, June 6th began the electoral week, by June 30th, as we all know, the decree-law must be published in the Official Journal in order not to lose the resources of the PNRR. We had little time and we moved within very narrow margins: the stakes set by the European Commission or those represented as such; the stakes set by the MEF and the General Accounting of the State; stakes which, thanks to the sky and thanks to the compactness of the majority, proved to be non-removable. Well, in spite of everything, we did it. We have achieved as much as possible, which in politics, as in life, is the best. We have done so, and I would like to say this, thanks to the firmness of Commission Presidents 1st and 7th, thanks to the self-denial and dedication of Commission officials 1st and 7th, which I will never stop thanking. [[Applause]] I register, ladies and gentlemen, with rare relief that, whenever it wants, this branch of Parliament knows how to work seriously, with determination and even with discretion. On a decree where the future of the school represents the central part, we did everything that was possible and right to do. Of this we should be proud: a whisper of politics applied to the future of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u9	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are converting an important document into law. I too thank the rapporteurs for the great work they have done. Although there are many important issues, I am particularly committed to the issue of health, Article 27, establishing the National Health Prevention System against Environmental and Climate Risks. This is an important step, because it is nothing more than the application of the PNRR Mission 6, being the project health, environment, biodiversity and climate centered in that chapter. This new system aims to improve and harmonise the policies and strategies put in place by the National Health Service for the prevention, control and treatment of acute and chronic, communicable and non-communicable diseases associated with environmental and climate risks. As a result, this new system of relationship between environment and health is very important at this time. This new system establishes an adequate interaction with the national networked system for environmental protection: therefore two systems, the National Health Service and the ecological transition system that must be spoken through a direction cabin. Who knows the administrative activity knows that, when there are also environmental impacts to be built, it is necessary to collaborate. So far, this system has been implemented as an activity of local authorities. Now, on the other hand, there is a decree, which precisely applies this method. There will be a continuous interaction, just to get to the completion of that project health, environment and biodiversity Mission 6. This new system promotes the inclusion of health in decision-making processes involving other sectors, including through communication and training activities. It shall provide support to the competent environmental authorities for the implementation of the health impact assessment, as part of the strategic environmental assessment, environmental impact assessment and integrated environmental authorisation. For those who have done administrative work, it is the famous AIA. Of course, there will be a need for implementing decrees, which I hope will be implemented as soon as possible, as set out in the projects. On the other hand, we know that the PNRR is being monitored in a pedissequa way precisely to prevent the timing from running out of time. Therefore, in this regard, I trust that the steering booth will do its duty, also because there will be contacts of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the ecological transition and also of the Regions, together with a representative of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I have outlined all the impact and the programmatic layout of this new system, and now I am moving towards a more political part, ladies and gentlemen. On this new system, which must finally keep health and the environment together, it is necessary to make more punctual political considerations precisely to understand if the pandemic really taught us anything. The climate of these days, with high temperatures from advanced summer, the drought that is bringing agriculture to its knees and the need for water also for the population (especially elderly and more fragile) could be expected with programmatic activities of hydrological protection? Could energy saving and absolute dependence on other countries be predicted? Could the unwise use of soil and the environmental impacts of a productive nature be better assessed and monitored? Could all diseases, including cancer, and the impact on citizens living in areas where implants are insisting be avoided? Could mobility be more sustainable to avoid the circulation of pollutants toxic to our organism? I believe that politics could and should have done more, putting first - right from the start and first - the assessment of the impact that would have on the health of citizens. With the establishment of this new system, which is part of a collaboration between the national health system and the environmental protection system, I hope that the cross-cutting nature of citizens' health will indeed be a priority and an opportunity and that much more consideration will be given to the absolute good of the people enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution and the protection of the environment, which we have voted to be included in the Constitution in Article 9. Health and the environment, which must be parallel and not antagonistic, are protected by the Constitution in the interests of future generations. We owe it to our children. Now the money is there, because it's from the PNRR. We just have to spend it well and check (maybe even with a report from the Minister of Health to the relevant Commissions) that everything that is described in the projects is being implemented. If not now, when? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u11	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u12	Mr President, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan has been yet another cornerstone around the neck of European citizens, particularly Italians, under the pretext of the pandemic scam put in place to open a season of reforms linked to the round necessary to the financial oligarchies to renew their investments in certain sectors, such as those related to the Plan (ecological and energy transition, digitisation, research, etc.). After the pandemic we will no longer return to the world before, we were told by our wolves dressed as lambs, who, with the sadly tested strategy of terror, had already traced behind us the sad agenda of limitations of personal freedom and unconditional obedience to senseless diktats because they were useful and functional to a precise plan of subverting the constitutional backbone of our country, but destructive to its inhabitants. In order to implement the great reset of the economy according to the new world order, it was necessary to unlock a certain amount of resources and the 750 billion bonds granted by the ECB to deal with the Covid emergency were the price paid by the peoples to be forced to adapt to the needs of the markets. Italy, by chance, had the largest share of the fund because - unique in Europe - it did not give up to ask for the full percentage to be borrowed. It is EUR 122 billion that, far from refreshing our economy, will end up wedding the strings in which our rulers and parliamentarians of majority have already decided to caprettare us, to bring us as a gift, unarmed, to their puppeteers. Will it be a coincidence that we were the most obedient country to health diktats related to experimental vaccine speculation? Will it be a coincidence that we are the only country in Europe to keep the fetish of masks? We have paid with reforms tears and blood the round that will see that money only pass from our country to be ascribed to our public debt, which will increase to a great extent legitimizing our torturers to finish canceling the rule of law. The PNRR also includes the Development and Cohesion Fund, 80% of which will have to be used to bridge the gap between North and South. However, the conditions of the local authorities of Southern Italy are such that we can easily understand what will happen: that money will be distracted by the realities that start benefiting and, therefore, will serve to increase and not to reduce the gap between territories. Meanwhile the Government works on a draft framework law on differentiated autonomy in order to crystallize historical expenditure without any preventive intervention on the infrastructural gap and cancel for the Regions of South Italy any prospect of recovery. We come to the colleague we have to express ourselves on. First of all, the way in which the provision was dealt with in the Senate has precluded any possibility of debate. Even yesterday, the whole of Article 44 was reworded in a healthy way, with an amendment not by the rapporteur, in order to prevent the submission of sub-amendments. We have therefore resorted to a device in order to avoid any room for discussion. The decree-law in question provides for an unconstitutional gag regulation that imposes a form of censure aggravated to public employees on social media, in full consistency with the government's line to control the information in order to easily sell for fake news everything that contrasts with the official narrative, hitting every form of dissent and cutting it off in the bud with punitive interventions. In perfect harmony with the philosophy of privatisation and the control society that the 2030 Agenda wants to establish, we have the creation of a new company, 3-I SpA, with the merger of INPS, INAIL and Istat, which will put on the market our sensitive data related to welfare and assistance. Another strategic piece of our country is sold out. Why not talk then about the tour game created on the training of teachers with the so-called School of High Education, for the benefit of two well-known wheelchairs, INDIRE and Invalsi, under the guidance of ministerial bureaucrats co-opted by the Minister on duty and with the support of universities, who have no competence in the teaching practice of the school segment? Of the series: those who don't know how to teach. Besides, how many teachers will benefit from a high-educational school that will have to pay out of their pockets? There is talk of 3,000 euros and three-year journeys without even the certainty of falling back into the percentage of the lucky people who will be recognized the salary increases, dependent on the capacity of the fund. Of the more than 40 million presented to this round match, only two are charged to the PNRR; The others are instead taken away from the funds devoted to the quality of the education of our children, which is dismantled piece by piece, especially through the so-called innovative teaching, which is yet another semantic scam to cover the progressive impoverishment of the school offer of the last twenty years. The school has been transformed into an affectionate and non-caramelous car park, to use the words of Minister Bianchi. By now it has been made to suspect even that the Invalsi has served precisely to measure the destruction of the learnings, in order to be able to improve the work of dismantling. Proof of this is that worse results have been achieved by ever worsening reforms. This measure is a test of honesty and intelligence: voting in favour, moreover with the umpteenth vote of confidence, means either not to distinguish the good from the evil or to inflict yet another fatal blow on the country system, which will not be forgiven. [[Applause from Senator Angrisani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u14	Mr President, we are faced - of course with the vote of confidence, in order to prevent the individual amendments from being voted on in the light of the sun, in front of everyone - with a measure that is part of that great operation which is the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The word "resilience" (which I believe was unknown to more than two years ago) has now become indispensable, as they did in the immediate post-war period with the economic boom, when they did not know - or at least knew it in very few - the word "resilience"). The fear is that this word will remain so and the facts will say something else. The decree-law under consideration is essentially an omnibus measure, because, apart from the articles that concern the school issue, it concerns all the many aspects of public administration, which because of its presence, its articulation and its importance in our country essentially affects all the sectors of our nation and daily life. The examination was obviously difficult and has already started with the intention of violating what the Constitution prescribes, namely that both Chambers examine the measure. It has also happened in the past that it was only one House that examined a measure, because unforeseen events can happen, because the examination can continue for some reason or because changes are introduced at first reading; but when you start with this idea, obviously there is not much already. Today it is 21 June, the decree expires on 29 June and still has to be sent to the other branch of Parliament, to be examined in the Commission, then in this House. We are talking about fake exams, exactly the same as those of the Senate, when the same procedure is followed in the House, because, if I am not mistaken, only Wednesday or Thursday - that is to say, ten or twelve days after the final date of the provision for both readings - the numerous amendments have begun to be examined and voted on, which is normal for the majority too - and I would say above all - given the articulation of the measure. I wonder how we can really look at such a measure. The reason for these delays is certainly not to be found in the conduct of the Commission, but I would like to thank Mr Nencini, who has carried it out with great capacity, trying to keep the helm bar so as to give a certain order to the work, as well as the rapporteurs, Senator Rojc and Senator Cangini, who have done their work with commitment. The reason, rather, is that all decisions are obviously not taken in this House, because the question of trust is simply raised there, so either in the majority of governments or not - even if no one is obliged to join, even if he is part of the majority of governments, but we know how things are going - but not even in the Commission, that is, the examination takes place elsewhere. I would like to take the example of how the work took place yesterday: the Commission, after several referrals already last Friday, was convened at 12 noon and postponed at 12.30 p.m., then at 13.30, at 14.30, then 15.30; after that, there was a qualitative leap: the delay, instead of being an hour, became three hours, so the sitting was postponed to 18.30, but only at 19.40, when it was finally decided which text to vote on. The Commission has therefore voted in favour of the whole area of which it is quite right to say that it is very important, namely school, in fact liquidating the text in twenty minutes. Now we come to this House and it is difficult to know the work that has been done and even the list of the many amendments that have been adopted. There are also some proposed by the Brothers of Italy, who intervene mainly on the procedures; we had proposed many others, on substantive issues, but obviously it is already quite difficult to agree between the parties of the majority, so for the opposition there is little room, but I must say that attention has been shown. To say, however, that this is a parliamentary examination is to say what it is not, because the examination takes place elsewhere: it is the Government that continues to send all the last changes to what it has decided indispensablely and urgently, with so much of recourse to the instrument of the decree-law, which makes the provision immediately effective and in force, except then continue to submit corrections until a few days from the extreme deadline - indeed, we should have sent this text to the House already twenty days ago - as well as amendments introducing new elements. When it is said that it is necessary to keep up with the urgency of modern life, it would be more appropriate to say that the urgency comes from the changes in the government's idea and from the new found ones, but it is not that they are introduced to keep up with the daily difficulties, because here there is a problem: this PNRR has been written at European level and has been transposed, with the procedures due, at Italian level, when the emergency was generated by the pandemic by Covid, with the very heavy reflections that there have been on the economy. Our country, in fact, has had the primacy for the most substantial collapse of the gross domestic product due to the particularly severe measures (more severe than in any other country), primacy that has been accompanied by the one due to the number of deaths, so obviously there has been some problem. Today, however, it is clear that there are at least other emergencies. Among other things, it is a recovery and resilience plan generated by an emergency of a health nature - this is the basis of everything - that allocates very limited resources to health care, a very small part of these funds, while an ageing society, in which medical care evolves continuously, and with them the costs, should still increase the health costs. Today we are in a situation where - I think we know - the emergency generated by the war in Ukraine is energy. What do we do? We move forward with the old National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Brothers of Italy have repeatedly asked the Italian Parliament and the European Parliament to update it, as provided for in European procedures, as well as, of course, the freedom that Parliament - if it were really there - should have. But no: we have remained with the previous priorities; on the contrary, we move forward with the old plan, that of environmental fundamentalism, in which some axioms and dogmas are taken and applied in an uncritical way, to the point that in these days, when there are problems of much other kind, we think of kicking the continental automotive industry with the announcement of the elimination of endothermic engines by 2035. This, together with all the other rules of this type, will allow China to absorb new production, because it will be able to produce more to the detriment of Europe, because there is no limitation to emissions and even less to actual pollution. Consequently, the result of this fine rule will be the increase in global emissions, because, given that there is talk of a global problem, it does not matter whether they occur in China or in Europe. We are thus faced with a very harsh confrontation: that between fundamentalist ideological visions and reality. This is the worst danger that politics can face: to exchange and replace the real reality and problems of people (it is not a philosophical fact, but a question that touches the real problems of people and citizens who find themselves with exorbitant bills and very high costs, who close thousands and thousands of companies and activities) with ideology, in order to run after environmental fundamentalism, which, in fact, goes in the opposite direction both of the economic and practical interests of citizens and even of the protection of the environment. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u15	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u16	Mr President, there is in this decree-law a very important part that concerns universities and research, the way in which we can become researchers and enter the university career in our country. It is not just the future of thousands of girls and boys who want to make study and research their own lives. This is the future of the entire country, which needs more researchers, more right to study, a wider, inclusive and accessible university to be able to face the challenges we face, that of the technological revolution and knowledge, that of a new economy, environmental transformation, digital innovation, a new humanism, a more just and cohesive society, that makes common goods grow, essential services, social ties that are decisive, especially in times of crisis, as we were reminded by the pandemic, in particular in the dramatic initial months. It was three Italian researchers who first isolated the coronavirus, keeping hope alive, opening the way to a possible vaccine. I mean these things strongly today, because this decree-law concerns the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the investments on the Next generation EU, which we strongly wanted and which have the meaning of building a new model of development, after the pandemic, for the new generations. There is a gigantic university question, linked to the future of the new generations. Because too many people are prevented from going on in their studies, because economic, social and territorial conditions do not allow it. The data tell us that the number of registered persons today is less than that of 20 years ago and this is unacceptable. When a girl or boy is forced to stop studying, it is a defeat for the whole country. When a young researcher is forced to go abroad he is a wound to our country. It is from here, from these reasons, that our amendment was born, finally approved, which makes this decree-law a watershed for the Italian university. The amendment, to my first signature, transposes the rewriting that I made as rapporteur, in a synergic work with the Minister Mass, of the bill on recruitment; an amendment then signed by all the Majority Leaders, which I thank for the support; an amendment that comes from five years of work, from a bill filed in 2019, which is the result of battles made listening to voices and instances of many researchers, first used, squeezed, underpaid and then, after very long years of precarious, almost all expelled from the university; "Masticati e spitati" wrote in an open letter the representatives of the doctorates. According to statistics, over 90 percent are cut off after more than ten years of precariousness, on the threshold of forty years, a very difficult age. Cuts to funding and wrong rules have caused this chasm, have caused these huge distortions, with increasing social and territorial gaps. Under-financing and precarious are the enemies of research: this has emerged clearly from the findings of the cognitive survey on the student condition and precariousness in universities and research, which we wanted loudly at the beginning of this legislature, of which I have been rapporteur and in whose conclusions it is stated that there is a need for regulatory intervention that contrasts the pre-caring dynamics induced by the current system. That, Mr President, is what we are doing today with the approval of this amendment, which maintains its commitment to researchers, associations and social forces, with which we have worked in recent years. This amendment is a new reform of the university, fifteen years after Law No 240 of 2010. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At last a single researcher is introduced, with that mechanism that is called of tenure track, that is with guarantee and certainty of progression, of the total duration of six years, but that can lead to the role of professor already from the fourth year, as soon as passed the scientific qualification. It can be - this - a revolution, to return to have more teachers and more young teachers, reducing the length of the current prerole. Then there is another revolution, perhaps even more important: the precarious figures are finally erased, both that of the determined researcher, and above all that of the so-called research check, atypical and intermittent figure, which in recent years has been the grimaldello that has caused an unsustainable bubble of precariousness, with an abnormal use, surreptitious, that has mortified the professionalism and life of thousands of young researchers, forced to work without rights and then forced to throw the sponge. This cannot be the Italian university and today we say it strongly. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With our amendment this precarious type is deleted and in its place is introduced a real research contract, with all the safeguards of subordinate work, starting from the most symbolic and essential ones: sickness and motherhood. It is a contract finally paid according to the most advanced European standards, which gives dignity and protection, which finally implements the European Charter of Researchers. These rules mark a new beginning and can reappear to the search many talents today distrusted. It is a reform that does not turn its back on anyone; on the contrary, it provides for a transitional period that recognises the activity carried out by type A fixed-term researchers (RTDAs) and checkers (figures that will disappear), guaranteeing them a reserve of 25%. This is a fundamental political point, not at all obvious, which adds meaning to a measure whose philosophy is to counter precariousness. Yet President - I would like to say this - there has emerged in these hours a hallucinating debate, which has the traits of reaction, of notable conservatism, with academic eximes that tear their clothes apart and that with cynicism they already regret not being able to use precarious contractual typologies, which have been a nightmare for thousands of people. Openly and shamelessly they complain about the excessive cost of new contracts, as if it were not a duty to pay back work, as if it were not a duty to finally ensure protection and basic rights. And that is what we do today, finally giving value to the work of research. There is one way not to reduce contracts: to continue to increase the funds for the university, as has been the case in recent years, already since the last legislature, with extraordinary recruitment plans, which we want from the next budget law to become a great multi-annual strategic plan, which consolidates certainties. We cannot fail to see how this reform is in an expansionary investment plan for the university, with the ordinary fund reaching almost 8 and a half billion and which still needs to be increased, especially with regard to basic research. Mr President, the reform that we are approving today - and I conclude - would not have been possible without the role of the Minister Mass, who has determinedly wanted this change and whom I would like to thank for the important work that Parliament and the Government together are demonstrating that they can do. This is one of the most important political acts of the legislature today. Today we say that research is always a job and that as such it must be recognized, protected and paid. Today we put at the centre the dignity of young researchers, we build a project in which even those who start from a disadvantaged condition can move forward and do not have to sacrifice their personal and family life. Today we want to build a stronger, more open, European university for all and not for the privileged few. And we do that, President, by giving answers to material and existential conditions, by making them our own, by giving them representation. And we do so with the thought of the too many who in recent years have had to give up and with the commitment that will not have to happen yet. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u17	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, government, good morning. Today is an important day, both with regard to the work that Parliament has done, and with regard to the objectives that we are achieving and which we have achieved, concerning the famous National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We know very well that by 30 June this Parliament had to approve three reforms: public contracts, public employment and the recruitment of teachers. Some have spoken of delays and difficulties; we have actually done a significant job of improving the text. Let me particularly thank my colleagues from Forza Italia of the Commissions and the rapporteur, Senator Cangini. I would particularly like to thank the colleagues of the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, in the Commissions and the rapporteur, Mr Cangini, for the very important work of improving the text. I would also like to focus on the part of the measure relating to public administration and public employment, on which there has been a work of improvement by Parliament, but also of overall confirmation of the establishment of the decree-law under consideration. I have always been from Forza Italia, since 1994, and I have always conducted some classic battles of this political formation, one of which is that of simplification. I have repeated it in all the electoral campaigns and it is still a firm point. Sometimes we miss the basic points and for this reason I want to point out that today we come to identify an operating portal and a unique platform for recruitment in the public administration, which represents an important event. You know that this portal has already been "trained" in a partnership with LinkedIn, and that there are 6 million profiles, i.e. 6 million people who have already signed up and, among other things, a thousand necessary experts have been selected. The "revolution" connected to this operational portal, which must be followed well, is linked to the fact that a young person - but also a younger subject - if he has to go to search for a competition, he no longer has to go around between the Journals and the websites of the Ministries, but now we have a single portal, which deals exclusively with this aspect, relating to the search for work by all the administrations, including therefore the Regions, the local authorities and the independent authorities, with documents in open format for what concerns the search of the notices. We have improved the text, in particular thanks to an amendment by the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC, which specifies the evaluation of the residual skills of people with disabilities at the time of the competitions. This is an issue that has been brought forward and which is extremely important for our Group. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] All this is linked, always in the name of simplification, the most ambitious project of the digitization of procedures, with the Public System of Digital Identity (SPID) and the unique registry. In fact, we know that we have 24,000 public administrations with different operating systems and therefore, through the measure under consideration, we are moving towards a definitely different operation, taking care of another thing that for Forza Italia has always been very important, that is the competences. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The characteristic of the intervention is in fact to take care of the "renewing" of the public administration, from which many people have gone for the so-called 100 quota and into which we must enter young prepared, but also prepare those who may be of a certain age and are not accustomed to using the digital system, through the skills. This led to the relaunch of the National School of Administration, contained in the decree at our examination, and of course of Formez, which certainly has its importance. Finally, yesterday the technical assistance portal for the technical and administrative staff of the local authorities, called 'Capacity Italy', was presented - I do not know if my colleagues could see it. This portal will become the reference point to meet all the needs strongly expressed by municipalities, small and large, and by all local authorities, in the application of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is a portal that, in my opinion, I tell you the truth, has a revolutionary scope. When I started to deal with the application of the PNRR, I couldn't quite figure out where a municipality could go to interface, which was what the municipalities of my territory asked me to do. Progressively, the Ministries have set up help desks and set up facilities. Today all this is brought back to unity with this technical assistance portal, which will have a very important function, because, as I said, it will succeed in making a substantial leap of quality to the local authorities that are the protagonists of the implementation, especially with regard to the benefits that derive from the PNRR and the various reforms that we are putting in place. In essence, we can say that we have done a good job. The Ministers of Forza Italia have certainly done so, because what we are examining is a measure in which they have been involved. They have done a titanic work - I would like to repeat - Senator Cangini and the Vitali group leader in the first Commission, together with colleagues clearly. The fact is that the operation of the PNRR, which many may say they do not understand, understand or not have the general framework, actually goes on with the precise respect of the contract that we have signed with Europe after the resolutions of Parliament and that it will certainly mark a change of pace in our country. I believe in it a lot, not only because of the huge resources involved, but because it is actually the underlying reason that holds us all together - let's say almost everyone - in this majority to give a different perspective and solve the problems we have been crying over for years, including digitisation, the operational portals, the problems of the local authorities, that is everything I have tried briefly to list. Then there is something that belongs to us, and so I conclude. I am referring to trust and above all to the ability to believe in the work that we do, as the Commissions have believed in it and how so many people who expect changes believe in it. Italian pessimism is not necessary: we must have a straight back and be proud of the work we are carrying out. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it is my intention to share with you all a reflection on the importance that PNRR can take on in an area that I consider essential for the development of our society. I am referring to education and training. There are more hours spent in school than with the family; it is at school that relationships are established, not only of study for the children and of work for the teaching staff and not, but also of friendship and sharing. The school world is such a large container that inside it you find the universe: not only education and work, but the development of personality, the growth of relationships, sociality, feelings and emotions and, when you are a teacher, you do not limit yourself to providing a service, but you enter into the lives of children and families and they enter into yours, with the creation of empathy and relationships. The world of school has a strategic importance for the formation of tomorrow's citizens and we must show respect, consideration and sense of responsibility towards that world, all too often forgotten, developed by policies that are not respectful for the teaching class and for students, as if it were a sector of series b. The young people and the teaching class perceive all this with a sense of discomfort, because, if we do not invest in a prudent way with the diligence of the good father of the family, as was said, making the best use of the opportunity of the PNRR, we miss yet another opportunity to embark on a virtuous path. And acting when it's too late can mean not acting at all. In this decree-law we try to respond to what Europe asks us to do in the face of the share part of the financing of the Next generation EU, equal to 24 billion, that is, a selection and training of the teachers that aim at the acquisition of pedagogical skills, teaching and above all of the innovative didactics. It is established that for the teaching profession of secondary schools of first and second degree, including technical-practical teachers, it is necessary to undertake a university and academic course of initial training and qualification and then to make a competition in order to enter the role. Access to the enabling routes is selective and the number is decided annually on the basis of the needs of teachers. The course will allow the achievement of 60 university credits (CFU), which will allow access to the competitions at the professorship. The attendance of these courses will be compulsory and in presence; the latter criterion may be waived by a maximum of 20%. All perfect, a new world, but a legislator who can be said to be so cannot ignore the imperfect world that exists today and must try to balance the legitimate expectations of new teachers with the rights that claim teachers who have allowed the school to operate in these years. For example, the theme of the 24 CFU was highly controversial. The text fired by the Government a few weeks ago, in fact, did not contain any specification on what up to now is a requirement to access ordinary competitions for teachers. School legislation must continue; a mechanism cannot be envisaged until the day before, and the next day it can be revolutionized without transitional arrangements. Fortunately, the senators have sheltered this. Applause goes to the majority, who at this time and at other times worked compactly and determined to improve a too drastic text in many respects, to use euphemism. [[Applause]] On the financial cover front too, the struggle was tough: to cover the expenditure items of the new training mechanism with the resources of the teacher's card seemed really indigestible and also on this aspect, fortunately, there was a change of pace. Uncertainties remain about the cut of the chairs expected in 10,000 in the initial text, now reduced on the basis of the criterion of demographic decline and turnover of 2026. Other adjustments have been approved in the Senate: access for the first three cycles of the initial training course of those who are in service in the state or equal school within the limits of the reserve of the places indicated; the remission to the national bargaining of the incentive; the return in the beehive of the negotiation of the definition of the number of additional hours; the access to the specialization on support for those who have already carried out three years in the activity. We would have liked a greater consideration of the thousands of precarious people used for years in the school that could not have been enabled due to the lack of dedicated paths; however, it could have been expected that enabling paths for all categories of teachers could be foreseen; to provide for the extension of the transitional phase in order to absorb the historical precariousness (2024 is too limited a time). He should have insisted more and not bowed too much to the European Diktats. The re-opening of the merit rankings of the candidates in the competitions would also have been useful. Finally, it is sad to think - by the end of 2024, i.e. that fixed for the hypothetical absorption of the precarious ones - of the access to the first open-ended test; may be this subordinate with DPCM to the overcoming of a pre-elective test. I come from the world of school, you know, I am a teacher: it is a professional role that has allowed me to be close to families and pupils in a climate of deep collaboration and growth, especially through active listening also on the territories of all school staff, managers, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff (ATA), the director of general and administrative services (DSGA), teachers; in reflection, pupils and families. The school, in addition to being an educational service to people, represents a powerful strategic factor for the social and economic development of each country: the cultural and professional formation of the new generations, the true levers of our future depend on the school. Along with all this, the school still acts as a social elevator, increasing and enhancing talents and changing destinies. The education sector is the real pillar of our society, the engine for our country's socio-economic recovery at this time of great difficulties caused by the pandemic crisis and the consequences of the war in Ukraine. I believe and hope that these reflections of mine, also dictated by professional experience, will be shared by everyone. In addition, in view of what many have said and, last but not least, by President Draghi, politics in the institutional fora must respond decisively and concretely: the school must return to being at the heart of every government's commitment and we have demonstrated it these days. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is necessary to have the courage to make a change of pace, to invest more economic resources in the sector and to undertake compulsory training courses which do not favour inequalities, but which aim exclusively to promote the professional growth of teachers. All teachers need to be valued and can be valued if motivated and satisfied by their work, they need a greater economic dignity precisely because of their important function and deserve respect from the moment of recruitment until they are put in place. The recruitment of teachers cannot be translated into a cross quiz: it is necessary to select teachers for their ability to convey love for knowledge, for their ability to do innovative and inclusive teaching. The real recruitment is on the ground and starts from that spirit that the teachers demonstrated with dedication and courage during the pandemic, improvising platforms and new teaching methods for the love of their pupils, so as not to make them lose their educational paths. We are now investing in decisive policy action. The renewal of the school requires a shared path, listening to those who live it daily. I conclude by thanking rapporteurs, the members of the Commissions, the Undersecretaries, the Group Leaders, in particular, Senators Saponara and Pirovano, who have followed us in this difficult and complex path, from which emerged a cohesive and determined parliamentary majority to achieve common objectives for education, demonstrating that sense of responsibility which I hope will be repeated in the actions of the Government; that sense of responsibility which, at a time of economic and social crisis, of war, of pandemics, of uncertainty such as this, in which citizens seek concrete and effective answers from those who govern them, should serve as a lighthouse for our political action and our work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u21	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech mainly concerns Article 27 on the establishment of the National Health Prevention System, although we think it is more appropriate to talk about health protection, since health is a good that protects and protects itself and not prevents it. We prevent the diseases and conditions that can alter the state of health; we sincerely regret that the Ministry of Health did not want to accept this rational and logical change that we wanted to make with our amendment at the first signature of my colleague Giuseppe Pisani. The establishment of the National System of Health Protection and the recent inclusion in our Constitutional Charter of the Environment as a good to protect, constitute norms of great value and significance and sanction the right degree of attention that the Italian State finally turns to the environment and, consequently, to the issues posed by environmental alterations caused by human activities; among them pollution, the primary cause of climate change that is disrupting our planet and the alterations of the health of all living beings on earth: men, animals and plants. The national health protection system is born with the aim of creating a new institutional framework for health prevention, in line with the one-health principle, that is, a unique health of the environment, men and animals, because the health of living beings cannot exist in unhealthy and polluted environments. It will perform its functions by working in synergy with the structures of the National Environmental Protection System, established in 2016, and will have predominant health prevention, control and planning tasks, to reduce the risks and impacts on the population of acute and chronic, communicable and non-communicable diseases associated with pollution and climate change. How important and not further different it is to have a specialization of our national health system in the matter of related diseases and consequent to the degradation of our living and working environments demonstrate this the events of the current pandemic from Covid-19 and of the previous epidemics, that have found unprepared many countries, especially those with low incomes, whose scarce resources of the health services do not yet allow to keep under control the viral diffusion. A degraded and polluted environment, in addition to promoting the spread of communicable diseases, is also a primary and predisposing cause of non-communicable diseases such as cancers and degenerative diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that about 25% of diseases are caused by environmental factors and that about seven million premature deaths each year are attributable to the consequences of pollution. The same studies have shown that an effective prevention activity would prevent the emergence of numerous diseases and save about four million lives, I repeat: four million lives, only among children. It is therefore necessary to create greater awareness, knowledge and training among doctors and operators of the National Health System, especially at the level of the territory, in order to promote a correct evaluation of the pathological states resulting from or favored by human environmental alterations, especially from the various types of urban, industrial, agricultural, biological and electromagnetic pollution and to prepare an effective prevention activity for the mitigation of the effects of these pathologies on the population. For the implementation of the services of the National Health Prevention System from environmental and climate risks five lines of action are foreseen up to 2026, financed from resources for just over 500 million euros, from the funds of the National Complementary Plan. In particular, approximately 415 million are allocated for the overall strengthening of the structures and services of the joint environmental protection and health prevention system at national, regional and local level, improving infrastructure, human and technological capacities and applied research; 49 million for the development and implementation of pilot operational programmes for the definition of models of integrated intervention, health, environment and climate, in two selected national sites of interest (SIN); about six million for university level training and national programme of continuous training in health, environment and climate, because we do not forget how important training is and then act accordingly; 21 million euro for the promotion and financing of applied research with multidisciplinary approaches in specific areas of health, environment and climate intervention; finally, eight million euro for a national digital network platform National health prevention system and national environmental protection system. The synergistic operation of the two systems, in addition to the benefits resulting from the adaptation of the staff that many operators, health and environmental, had long hoped for and the implementation of technological resources, including the creation of digital connection networks, will allow significant benefits. These include a significant reduction in intervention times, more effective coordination and a more rapid and appropriate response to acute interventions, a more correct and appropriate definition of the essential levels of care in health planning for prevention, in line with similar actions on essential levels and environmental performance. Therefore, I would like to hope that this measure, strongly supported by the political component of the 5 Star Movement since the beginning of the current legislature, will not be separated from the commitment and contribution of individual citizens in pursuing, with their virtuous and respectful behaviors, the same unique health objectives as men and the environment in which they live. In conclusion, on the other hand, I would like to mention another question that has remained open in the decree-law to our examination. I am talking about Amendment 14.8 which has not been adopted, concerning research technicians with national scientific qualifications. This is a problem that I know well, but which does not concern me directly because I do not have such a qualification. Therefore, they are not in conflict of interest in stating the following. These researchers (because they are researchers), as well as those indefinitely, are in fact excluded from the recruitment procedures of university teaching staff. The amendment proposed not a preferential lane or a facilitated procedure, but simply the possibility for those entitled (because if you have a licence, you also have the right to have access to it) to the selections. For this reason, it is regrettable to read what some bureaucrats of the Ministry of University and Research, who evidently do not really know the university or perhaps just wanted to protect an old baronial system, wrote in their opinion contrary to that amendment. Certainly in order to become associate professors one cannot ignore very selective recruitment procedures and that soon - we all hope - they will be more transparent and selective, but not even admit to such selection anyone who has the qualifications to participate. We all hope they win the best, but if we don't let everyone participate how do we know that the best haven't stayed out the door? This self-preservative system is what discourages and makes our young people escape and drives citizens away from politics. Our duty, as politicians, in this House and in our work is precisely to open the way for the best and hope of change and meritocracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u24	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Commission on the fact that it has finally introduced, thanks to an amendment requested by Mr Modena and supported by other groups, the solution to a situation which has been perpetuating itself for some years and which concerned the precariousness of justice. This is a fundamental problem which is part of a criterion which is the basis of this reform, which concerns the use of skills acquired on the ground. This concept has been combined and developed, but it has not always had the same application (for this reason I thank my colleague, Mrs Modena). Even in this reform, as I will explain, for an amendment that is declared inadmissible, there is certainly something that contradicts the same logic. Look, this isn't my first time. I drew up 19 draft laws before entering Parliament and, thank God, they were all adopted without any modification (not even a comma), perhaps because in past legislation there was more attention: there was discussion and, before reaching approval, there was a reflection and everyone intervened even with changes. I would even remind you that there were representatives of Coldiretti, who were indeed farmers and that, once we had understood what the problem was, they also intervened in this House. In fact, there was a different participation, not as at present when there is a lack of presence during the general discussion. I attach great importance to the general discussion, including in the Commission, because in its absence there is no ability to assess the problems. There is also another aspect to this measure. It is not new, but it is a principle in which I have always believed and which I also recalled the other day in the explanation of vote on the new judicial system. What does the rule set out in Article 41 provide? The introduction of an observatory for the civil trial and an observatory for the criminal trial, which has just been approved, has just been approved, but the measures have not yet been adopted and the evaluation system has already been set up. Mr President, you teach me that sometimes, according to the current legislation, if a law providing for an important reform has been adopted in a legislature, we cannot go back after a year, but we expect the next legislature: it is one of the fundamental mistakes of our way of working, because precisely at the first moments of implementation of a reform we see inefficiencies, situations that do not allow us to achieve those objectives that the reform aimed at. So the rule at our examination finally provides that a stable structure will be able to give specific indications; as a matter of fact, it speaks precisely of the two delegations that have been approved in this parliamentary term. That's the logic. If, on the other hand, it is thought to plant the flag, then we have approved this law and there is no need to amend it. That was the nonsense. Whoever thinks in terms of party and flags, will never be able to grasp what he was and remains the foundation of this law. In order to be aware of this, I read you two points. Article 1 says that the definition of new professional profiles identified by collective bargaining is tended, with particular reference to the set of knowledge, skills and staff skills to be employed to support the digital transition. In Article 10, as in others, one overcomes one of those bureaucratic logics that have accompanied our country for a hundred years. I am referring to that part of Article 10, which states that until 31 December 2026, by way of derogation from the prohibition on the assignment of paid posts to workers in the field of retirement, assignments may be given to retired persons. This is a great solution because it responds to a principle: we need to enhance those who have gained skills, knowledge and ability to implement reform models that guarantee success. President Parrini is not here now, but I must say that I was shocked by the inadmissibility of Amendment 7.10 which I had proposed; it was probably declared inadmissible because - I hope so - the Presidents of the relevant Commissions and also the President of the Senate did not understand it. The reason for the inadmissibility is not understood otherwise. I say this very briefly. Of Decree-Law No 80 of 9 June 2021, I was rapporteur with my colleague Valente and one of the Presidents of the Commission involved was Mr Parrini. We were able to approve, with the solicitation, the agreement and the intervention reformulation by the Ministry of the Civil Service, an amendment that said that a quota not exceeding 15 percent is also reserved to the staff referred to in the previous period, in service for an indefinite period, that has held or covers the position of managerial level referred to in article 19, paragraph 6, of the legislative decree 30 March 2011, n. 165. In that rule, which was always of the PNRR, it was already stated the principle of the use of persons who had gained experience and proved themselves on the ground and it was even stated that there was an activity that had to be carried out by people who had all the characteristics to be able to do so, because they had a responsibility that they had fulfilled. Well, since the decree was approved with the agreement of all the Ministries and became law, with an amendment tabled by myself and Senator Vitali, but which was also submitted by other Groups, an application of that rule became law was identified. Do not do that, Mr President, it would have meant never implementing that rule, which would have been only written. The measure we had proposed was entirely similar to the rules laid down in Article 28 of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, except for the percentage of reserve. Since, however, it is a provision addressed to the staff who had already made the competition and had demonstrated in the field that they had the ability to carry out the tasks assigned to them by law, it is spontaneous to ask who is useful to prevent that staff already indefinitely can participate in a competition - because a competition was planned - while the rumor had spread that the amendment was unconstitutional. Well, I went to check, because I was very careful, and a specific competition was planned, so it was about using people who had competence and with the competition it could have overcome the issue. The question is who benefits and what is the purpose, if not a bureaucratic problem, of the will of someone who has preferred to show that it counts. I am very sorry, because I am not referring to any of the three that I have mentioned, but some indication must have come from the outside and the haste has not allowed us to deepen the issue, which contradicts what is already written in the other articles, as I said before. If the goal was to have those people, I don't see why they weren't given the chance to do it. Today we would have people who carry out managerial functions under Article 19 (6) and instead will stop performing that function with the competences that the PNRR required. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u25	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u26	Mr President, as I do often, I would like to divide my speech between the things that I am satisfied with with the provisions of the measure and the things that have left me puzzled. This is not with the intention of making controversy or complaining, but only and exclusively with the hope of indicating a direction, of indicating objectives that in my opinion it would be important to pursue in order to draw a line that leads us to the end of the legislature. Given my origin, obviously the first reason for satisfaction is on a solution that we will offer to the municipalities inserted in the perimeter of the seismic crater. Some might mistakenly think that almost six years after the first shock, the crater's emergencies and emergencies have been overcome, but that is not the case. I want to go beyond the usual names known by everyone and talk about Municipalities like Ussita or like Castelsantangelo sul Nera, which will probably be unknown to most, but which together with the Municipality of Visso, according to a calculation - if I remember well - made by the former head of the special office for the reconstruction of the Marche Region, engineer Spuri, alone represent 10 percent of the damages found in the Province of Macerata. This province alone presents 65% of the damage of the Marche region, and alone has twice the damage of the other three Regions put together. This is to say that areas devastated by the earthquake, where there are more damage than almost any other area of the crater, do not yet have a crane in the old town. I say this to point out that the emergency is far from over and that the needs of these areas are far from over. This is why providing for the transfer of resources for the lower revenue of the waste tax (Tari) to these municipalities is very important. Given that, as I said before, we are approaching the end of the parliamentary term, I would like to remind not so much myself or colleagues here, but also and especially those who will come after us, because it is essential to continue to foresee these resources. Someone naively and simplistically might think that since there are fewer people, the cost of urban cleanliness service is lower. But it isn't. The cost could be divided into two macro-categories: the variable costs, obviously linked to the contribution and therefore reduced due to the minor presences, and the fixed costs, of the staff who do the collection rounds and the means. These are costs which, regardless of the quantity collected, are fixed. All our internal areas on average have about half of second houses and half of houses of residents. There are places, however, with a particular touristic vocation, in which this relationship is distorted. I am still taking the example of Ussita: if I remember correctly, in Ussita there are over 2,000 second homes, with a resident population of about 400 people. Indicatively I think I am not far from the truth claiming that about 90 percent of the houses are second homes, that contribute to the coverage of the cost of collecting solid urban waste and that, therefore, having been declared totally unactable at this time contribute zero to the income of the Municipality. If we consider then that about half of the residents are in contribution of autonomous accommodation, therefore not resident in the emergency housing solutions (SAE), that could contribute to the payment of the tax, we get that about 5 percent of the resident population should cover in full the residual cost of the service that could be quantified in about 80-85 percent of the cost before earthquake. That is why it is essential to guarantee these resources, because otherwise we would bring that cost to increase by a measure that has not yet been quantified accurately by all the municipalities, but that could be triple or quadruple compared to what was before the earthquake. [[Applause]] It is clear that this is not acceptable because it creates a huge inequality against those who have already been so penalized. It is also not acceptable because it also goes against the always proclaimed intention of avoiding the depopulation of the internal areas, favouring, if possible, even resettlement; intention that, clearly, with the removal of the services and the increase of the costs we will never pursue. It is true that in the mountains we are accustomed to solidarity on the contrary. In fact, solidarity usually provides that those who have more can give to those who have less. Those who live in an already difficult situation, who pay more fuel than those who live in the city, who pay much more heating, because not only the cost is higher, but the need is for a longer period, those who pay the basic necessities already more than everyone else, obviously makes solidarity. We know very well that more than half of the cost of fuel is of taxes, so if we pay more fuel in the mountains, we obviously contribute to those services which the State then reserves to us to a minimum and which benefit instead of those in other areas. We are therefore accustomed to solidarity on the contrary, but beyond certain limits we could not afford it. If, then, we really want to make it easier to stay in the inland areas and to promote resettlement in those areas, we need to take specific choices and solutions to achieve this objective. That is why I must express regret at what is missing - and this gives me the opportunity to move on to the second part of my speech - especially with the aim of indicating what I think we should do to remedy problems. I had tabled amendments not only on Tari but also on the possibility of derogating from Article 136 of the Cultural Heritage Code. I had presented two: one for all the national territory, because in my opinion the inequality created between those who are subject to the constraint provided for in Article 142 and those who are subject to that provided for in Article 136 was inexcusable; another, on the other hand, is specific for the earthquake areas. The reason for this dual re-submission is because the time for the entire national territory is reduced compared to what is possible for the earthquake areas, since we have granted a derogation until 2025. Therefore, I was hoping that, at least for the earthquake areas, the amendment would be accepted, since almost all the buildings of the municipalities to be rebuilt fall within the constraints of Article 136. Unfortunately, this has not yet been the case, but I hope that can be achieved. This also allows me to close the intervention by referring to the bonus situation, especially the 110% bonus, which - as we know - has encountered many difficulties in its implementation and at this time as a resource is risking becoming a problem. The title of an article this morning speaks of nearly 33,000 failed builders for 2 billion frozen bonuses; banks no longer accept accrued loans and craft companies find themselves with full tax drawers, but without a penny of liquidity. I close, pointing out that last year we might have changed a paradigm: for years, to highlight how important public and private works were for the recovery of the economy, we talked about Marshall Plan; now we could also talk about bonuses, because if the exit from the economic crisis caused by lockdown was better than expectations, it was also largely because interventions on Italian real estate have favored this economic growth. This will be crucial for the sustainability of our debt. Let's not stop this flywheel. I therefore call on the Government to resolve these difficulties immediately and to give that certainty that it should be a fundamental principle of our legal system but that it is lacking at this time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are dealing with the debate on an omnibus decree-law, which under the name of the PNRR contains rules ranging from environment to school, from justice to tourism. The examination of its content - as is now customary - has been compressed in a few sessions and with yet another confidence and the other branch of Parliament will be next week having to accept an armored package. Under these conditions, it is almost superfluous to stress the lack of fruitfulness of parliamentarians in the legislative process: on the one hand, the senators actually ratify choices made elsewhere; on the other hand, Members are not even given this possibility, having to limit themselves to obeying the Diktats of a government that does and dissolves as it pleases. The democratic system and institutional relations, as is clear, are now in disarray in our country, but no one seems to care more than that. Better turn around and act like it's nothing. It is in this context of reference that we consume yet another blow of hand that will contribute to sinking even more, as if there were need, the Italian school system. After winning a public competition you will have to undergo a one-year trial period, which will end with a further final test. In other words, a further examination is expected after completion of the competition tests. What's the point? It is okay that school is a place of experimentation, but we are faced with a unique, not only legal, but also logical. Of course, in order to allow the new recruitment system, designed by the ministerial bureaucrats, to enter the regime it took time: it is then inevitable, like the now hot heat that gripes the summer months, a transitional discipline that will last until the end of 2024 and that clearly will help to make even more complicated a painting to say the least desolate. In the rush to please the discontented, they make madornal mistakes, such as to leave out of the provisional assignments, which are currently taking place, some categories such as the teachers of the provincial rankings for supplements (GPS), people who are victims of a system that has created a hybrid figure, which is not seen to guarantee the constitutionally guaranteed rights. Many are parents of children often under the age of three, others help disabled relatives and others simply ask to be able to meet their elderly parents. Ladies and gentlemen, responsibility for the selection mechanisms for school staff is primarily political. Our country is getting used to a trend in school, so a reform does not even in time to enter into force that already a new one is at the door, ready to wipe out the previous one and rewrite the rules of the system from scratch. The school would urgently need clear, secure and above all stable rules. We have been talking for years about a rewriting of the unique text of the school (the DPR dates back to 1994), of which there is no trace. With the good school it seemed that the system had hit the bottom, so much so that one of the programmatic points of the Movimento that presented itself in 2018 was the immediate activation of this reform, with the aim of giving back a lost dignity to the teaching professionalism, to bring to the center of the system the educational question and to increase the hunger wages of the teachers. It was necessary to insist on these points and not give in to the blackmail of the allies, who wanted the school to become only a place of mere stabilisation of the staff or that the didactic activity was largely replaced by extracurricular planning. We had to change step, in order to put the school system back at the center of our country and focus on the competence of our young people, while unfortunately we are not helpless to continue to step back. I do not believe that the majority of teachers in our country felt the need to see a specific school for high training or measures that encouraged participation in educational activities outside school hours, with a one-off reward to be recognized not at all, depending on a graduation of the results of the final evaluation, evaluated from above and thought by others, far from the reality of schools. All this only mortifies the work of the teachers. This further reform of the school system is not at any cost. For the financing of the new teacher training plan, a reduction in the legal staff is envisaged, hidden behind the maintenance of the staff of autonomy, which is in fact organic and not effective staff. It would have been much more appropriate for public resources to have been allocated primarily to increase teachers' salaries. We all know that the OECD's annual reports remind us that, as far as salaries for teachers' salaries are concerned, we have been a taillight in Europe for years. The average salary of an Italian teacher is about 33,000 euros, lower than that of his colleagues around the world. Now, instead of using for school staff the same places that are used for the staff of any public administration, because this is the perspective behind the use of the word "value-raising" addressed to teachers, efforts should have been directed towards a social revaluation of the role of the teacher, increasingly compressed between the growing hostility of families and the top reforms of the education system. I shall conclude, Mr President. Working in the school today, in the face of a general socio-economic context in crisis, is becoming increasingly difficult; but this Government is insensitive to the demands that come from those who every day go to the chair. Unfortunately, I do not believe that what is envisaged with the decree-law on the PNRR can represent a good road to give impetus to the school system of our country; the cuts to the legal staff in the coming years, as evidenced by the technical report attached to the decree-law, do not allow for any good. Mala tempora currunt, especially for pupils and young people in general [[Applause from Senators Crucioli and Garnet]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Cant. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u30	Mr President, we are pleased that our proposals also contribute to increasing the awareness that PNRR funds cannot be unwisely spent, especially in health care, by finalising resources so that we never have to repeat ourselves again and never again find ourselves in the state of unpreparedness and vulnerability in which we were at the beginning of the pandemic. Therefore, it is strategically important to implement a national health prevention system, not only from environmental and climate risks, which must be taken into account, as stated in Article 27 of the conversion measure, but it is essential to bear in mind the need to make a system also for the strengthening and improvement of active and passive surveillance activities, with One Health character, recognition of determinants and risks and assessment of the impact of interventions, prioritising the activities of preparation and enhancement of the capacities of the National Health Service for the identification, prevention and response of respiratory diseases with high communicability and pathogenicity, as well as prevention and contrast to the occurrence and spread of zoonoses. This is why we have for some time insisted - and little has been achieved - on the preparation of the National Pandemic Plan for Proactive Prevention and Government of the Risks of communicable diseases with endemic and pandemic relevance and zoonotic character and for a vaccination prophylaxis really effective and safe, without waste. We are faced with a crucial moment in our political and social history, which requires us to reaffirm with strength and determination, in the current scenarios of war, not only the ethics of responsibility, but rather to anticipate rather than suffer, according to the ethics of prevention as the fundamental principle of institutional action for individual and collective well-being, governing the evolution of the pandemic, with all the tools and measures technically available. This model could also be of reference at European level, proposing, rather than suffering the decisions of Europe, affecting with the same authority demonstrated in the economic field also in order to orient health policies, finalizing innovation, research and resources, both for effective and safe vaccines in time and prevention, and for the fight against zoonoses, whose social and occupational consequences, if we continue to approach them deterministally and uncontrolledly, risk being no less devastating than the ultraliberal and uncontrolled approaches of the technocrats of the ECB [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; technocrats who have thought of normalizing Europe's monetary policy, reducing Member States' sovereign debt purchases and raising interest rates, generating a unicum where the remedy is worse than evil after four months of war amplifying an inflationary push already in place, indeed predictable and prepared for at least a year, whose responsibilities are plastically obvious. This is the value of prevention in all sectors, responsible for technology at the service of policy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , not unlike a possible pandemic resurgence, on which we must now determine ourselves legislatively, indicating the development of prevention and preparation measures to consolidate the return to normality. All this calls to political responsibility the Government and the Executive of Brussels and to technical-scientific responsibility the agencies and the government offices in charge, sanctioning a pact of collaboration with all the structures and offices of public, human, animal and environmental health, as indicated in our amendments, for the realization of the essential levels of assistance, prevention and protection from the risks of communicable diseases with endemic and pandemic and zoonotic relevance. The principles must be strengthened, including among the objectives the setting up of strict active and passive surveillance measures with One Health character and the provision that the system will contribute, for the profiles of competence, to the definition and implementation of the National Pandemic Plan for Proactive Prevention and Risk Governance, entrusting to the Ministry of Health the implementation detail, with a chronoprogram sure to complement what is not provided for in the decree of the Minister of 9 June. We all have to prove that we've learned much more from the last two years than I read somewhere and that it sounded like this: You forced us to be strong. I hate you, Covid, for you to be cursed. Our strength, our true strength is to act, to act in prevention so that we do not have to curse. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u31	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u32	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are before the Decree implementing the PNRR made up of more than 50 articles and each of us must necessarily make choices and underscores on some aspects that he considers of particular interest, without taking away the importance of all the others. I say this to explain why I am going to focus specifically on two points. The first point concerns the fact that the implementation of this PNRR is an integral part of a total suspension, that is to say that in some way the effects of a sort of emergency end with June 30 and leaving it out of the perception of such an emergency what we call the fragile categories. I had tabled an amendment, but, in spite of what it seemed to be initially, in the extremely complex debate of the Commission - as we know - it was not finally adopted. The problem exists and we are faced with the idea of wanting to implement the PNRR in a situation in which the virus reveals every time its ability to recover strength and energy and to re-impose - in a sense - rhythms that would once again require particular attention and capacity to take charge of the so-called fragile categories. Among them, we know that there are, for example, chronic patients, patients with disabilities, but there are also family members who take care of those patients. I am thinking, for example, of the great caregiver field, on which we are unable to focus the attention of the Government and, therefore, a significant part of the PNRR's own resources. This is a key point that I want to highlight because perhaps it is a less visible element, which can escape, even in the face of the dramatic problem of war, on which we will discuss this afternoon, or in the face of the dramatic nature of the pandemic in the moments of the great deaths. A long wave is hitting a significant part of the population which is also a productive part, which in other words does not ask not to be engaged or to evade its responsibilities. It asks instead to be able to work and to reactivate those positive measures in which, for example, they have worked remotely, keeping together the protection of their lives and what I call the right to work. As a hinge between these two objectives there are those who assist these people, who have their difficulties, but also their rights. That is the first point that I would like to make very clear and clear in my speech. The second point concerns a totally different field - on the other hand, the decree-law is so heterogeneous with its 50 articles that there is everything - that is, mainly the university, the culture of evaluation and in some way that positive change (in terms of innovation and development) that must come from the world of research, the world of study and also from the brave world of those who manage to go beyond the established schemes and formulas. It was not easy; the debate on this part of the measure was not easy at all, so much so that it was supposed to be part of this reform using the economic resources already established in the budget, thus subtracting from school and university that injection of new resources which should represent the positive flywheel of change. It was hard to fight in the Commission; it was hard to defend what we were entitled to, and it is a bit the paradox of this Government: if on the one hand you imagine a great deal of economic resources that should come and are coming; on the other hand, when you formalise change, the answer that emerges is that there are not enough resources. It has been hard to defend, for example, the bonus for teachers, to ensure that the staff retains its consistency, even in the perspective that there are significant negative effects from demographic policies that record a country with zero growth, such as, for example, the least need of teachers. But we not only want those teachers to remain, as has been approved in the Commission's laborious debate - I insist - and to be faced with a process of strengthening, but also that the resources relating to this remain in the school sector. We need to keep a long, deep and meaningful look at the world of education and, returning to the topic of university, for example, on the world of recruitment of university teachers. The decree-law insists on a passage that I call the culture of evaluation and that emphasizes precisely the way in which competitions must take place and asks that they meet criteria of objectivity and transparency, but also of effectiveness and efficiency in the parameters that are used to evaluate people. All this comes within the perspective of imagining that not only public administration, but also and above all the world of university, must really represent the fundamental hub so that our young people, including those who take doctoral courses, people who are somehow brilliant and capable, can find their roots in a context of professionalization. We must succeed in winning the training funnel, which is the accumulation of people with a degree of study who, however, find no job, or the other type of work funnel for which we train people for jobs that no longer exist. From this point of view, the culture of formation, which occupies the last points of the decree-law in question, today should become the flagship of our country. We have said so many times that our country is the country of culture: it is, as the whole world recognizes us. Too bad, however, that at the same time as we are the world of culture, we are also the world of school dropouts, where the number of graduates is the lowest at European level. This is because our teaching system does not meet sufficiently the expectations of students, families and the needs of the world of work. If we put together these three elements, there is some leftover in order to be able to seriously pose the problem not only of the reforms to be done in our country to respond to Europe, but also of those that we long expected and that guarantee that the quality of those who teach drags with them the competence of a know-how and the quality of a motivation to active citizenship, by so many young people who at this moment seem parked waiting for something that could happen, but that we do not know if it will happen. I believe that the decree-law in question, which is so powerful and which concerns the application of the PNRR, in a certain sense already hinges itself between measures approved previously, without having an immediate regard to the territory, the evolution of the situation and what will happen. We must already have these retouching steps on our own PNRR, knowing how to meet the needs of Europe, with the awareness of those who want to authentically defend a development and an innovative push that starts again from young people and which enhances, in their intelligence, in their creativity, but also in their physical, moral and intellectual energies, precisely the drive to transform an Italy that ages - because this is us - in an Italy capable of finding a second youth. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u33	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking first of all those who have spoken before me, who have also pointed out certain parts of this measure, which is very important. However, I must point out the scarcity of those present: when we talk about the National Resistance and Resilience Plan, which we invoke every day as a tool for Italy's recovery, a maximum attention should be paid instead. I focus this speech on two fundamental assessments that I have had the opportunity to make in the last few days, even quite frantic, thanking first of all the Commissions, the 1st and the 7th, who have worked hard, and in general the whole of Parliament in a cross-cutting way. It is clear that the political assessments made on the issues and issues of the National Resilience and Resistance Plan often have political convergence, so all the members of Parliament agree on amendments, proposals, and what needs to be done. It's the same with the ministries. Unfortunately, however, after the two realities have to be joined together, there is the pulling off. The whole of Parliament, apart from colour and belongings, strongly calls for amendments to be put forward which can, in some way, simplify and move in the direction of implementing this important instrument, which is also being asked of us by Europe. And here the Ministries, once one, once the other, do not find convergence; or the opposite happens, with the Ministries that endorse the amendment and the parties that agree, but the Government does not agree. This is a way that is not good. It is not good because we are at the end of this very difficult and complex legislature, which has seen us participate in situations that are out of the ordinary, from the pandemic to the war. Now we have in our hands an instrument that we should all use well, so that we can really take that path of regrowth, of real openness that we are asked for. On the contrary, the same situation is repeated all the time: the amendments are proposed with one - and this is all the more true in this particular case - very strong convergence on the part of all parties, but only one party has been maintained. And those amendments that have been retained have value, but there were so many that could have led to so-called simplification and deburocratisation. Unfortunately they could not be maintained. And let's not analyze why, but basically the reason is the following: if it's not the Ministry, it's the Government; if it's not the Government, it's the Ministry. In the end, this Parliament, which is a legislator, finds itself on the ground. And when the territory asks us to account for why we have not been able to bring the amendments, we stand by. This Parliament is not capable of giving explanations. He cannot explain why, even if it is a Parliament that legislates, he practically has the card, but he does not have the pencil, or he has the pencil and not the card. And that's too bad. This is the first point I wanted to make. Here we are talking about the National Plan, we are talking about billions and debt for the future of our children. So, maybe it's time to make a turnaround too. I would like to say this with all due respect for the Government, but this is a Parliament of people elected and deserves respect. Every now and then try to listen to and welcome what comes from us, because we are bearers of the interests of Italians, and not personal. There are quite positive measures. I am referring, for example, to local authorities, who are the ones who will then have to implement the National Plan and have more difficulties. I am referring above all to the small municipalities, those who have not been able to undertake the recruitment process and have asked to have at least the opportunity to make the detachment in order to be able to help one another. No, this couldn't be done. Yet, especially the smaller municipalities of the South, where there is the greatest amount of money, they will find themselves unable to help each other. Something has passed, but with respect to the total installation the local authorities responsible for the implementation of this remain on the stake. And paradoxically, they remain at the stake on the National Plan, which is what Europe is asking of us, because we must respect it. The European recommendations are also important, but we are full of infringements, since over the last 20 years we have not taken on a number of recommendations. The recommendations are important, but it is equally important for the government to sit at a European table and say that each state has its own peculiarities and particularities. If recommendations mow half of the amendments that can implement the PNRR that Europe itself tells us to implement, it is clear that we are facing a dog that bites its tail and becomes ridiculous in front of a Europe that is a step forward. Let us not ask ourselves, then, why the ballot boxes are empty and why there is so much distance. We, who are Members of the European Parliament, are trying to lighten up and unravel, with this measure, we are bringing things home with great effort from the Commissions, but also with a series of obstacles that today, which we are trying to open up, are ridiculous. This is the process that must be overcome. In fact, if you do not overcome the process of interference and closure, you will never be able to really make a change and be concrete. There will always be the Ministry, the Minister or those who do not want and will not be able to achieve the goal. However, we are not joking about this because - as my colleague said earlier - we have to think about who will come after us. The children and grandchildren, whom we also have, will be those on whom the difficulties we encounter every day will fall and who have not had the ability - I speak of all - to overcome. And this is not about amendment 6.5, but about the procedure and the ability to be innovative and adapt to the times. This means looking for a different rhythm, that rhythm that we have not yet found. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u36	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the 50 articles of the measure we are debating today contain additional urgent measures for the implementation of the PNRR. As we all know, the Plan represents the strategic document in order to be able to access the funds of the recovery fund that have been obtained from our country, albeit with great difficulty, thanks to the Carthusian work and the constant application of the Government Count. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Plan, in its articulated complexity, in its multiform approaches and fields of application, can and must represent the authentic flywheel to relaunch our country after the pandemic, stimulating an ecological and digital transition; promoting a structural change of the economy and marking a new and more unified vision of its development, contrasting territorial inequalities. In pointing out that 40% of the funds must be directed and spent to the South, we wanted to point out an indispensable condition in order to overcome those objective disparities that up to now have curbed the development not only economic, but also infrastructural, social and health of our South, almost always relegated to taillight and constantly in pain and late and always forced to chase. This is not due to a lack of professionalism or skills, which are often forced to emigrate out of our borders in order to obtain the right recognitions and adequate employment opportunities, but for a policy that is incapable of planning, managing and implementing choices in the sole interest of citizens and communities and not in the personalistic logic or in the interest of lobbying, occult powers or of camorristic or mafia criminal associations. The particular present moment, with the funds of the PNRR arrived and coming, involves a great commitment and a deep sense of responsibility on the part of all to face together against the shady appetites, never satisfied, of criminal associations [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] that no doubt see new economic resources as a further opportunity for illegal enrichment and presence or better interference, often decisive, in the choices and programming made. The institutions, political forces, the judiciary and the law enforcement forces must be vigilant, attentive and ready to denounce any interference and to intervene promptly and forcefully to counter unclear or at risk situations. The Movimento 5 Stars is there, is alert and attentive, ready to denounce and counter those who, for their own interests, can make our country miss a unique and unrepeatable opportunity. Citizens and communities are always at the heart of our commitment and action. The organized underworld is defeated also by tracing and verifying the paths of economic resources, shielding them from the action and interference of these organizations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The National Recovery and Resilience Plan, its projects and its goals can and must represent a further piece in order to restore the sense of legality to the companies and to the development of our country, and not another opportunity, yet, lost. This is therefore the fundamental importance of the commitment and sense of responsibility on the part of all and at all levels; the latter is essential to make better use of the funds of the PNRR already arrived and which will arrive, in order to respect the scheduled timetables and deadlines, and to present themselves in the European assembly with pride and without fear, respectful of the rules but determined to obtain and continue in the difficult path undertaken with the Government Count. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In particular, I would like to focus on Mission 6, the Health Mission, and on some points that I consider most salient and characteristic of the examination measure. First of all, a new organisational model for the territorial assistance network is defined and the establishment of the National System of Health Prevention against Environmental and Climate Risks takes shape. Senator Pirro said earlier: more than prevention, it should be health protection against environmental and climate risks. We all know the importance of the environment and the negative environmental influence on the state of health of all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Its function is to improve policies and strategies for the prevention, control and treatment of acute and chronic diseases directly or indirectly associated with environmental and climate risks. Just think of the harmful effects on public health of environmental pollution of water, air and soil, or the catastrophic effects on the incidence rate of neoplastic diseases, the risk of exposure to toxic substances, often painfully dispersed in the environment. The clear example we live in Campania and is represented by the land of fires. A closer correlation and interaction of the National Health Prevention System (SNPS) with the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment (SNPA) is finally approved and recognised. Particularly important - as suggested in the comments of our Health Commission - is that among the functions of the aforementioned SNPS there is the preparation of a national pandemic prevention plan, able to cope with pandemics or epidemics from communicable diseases, to better plan and control the risks related to it, and not live the condition that we have lived in the first moments of the pandemic, difficult and very serious. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the new planning of our healthcare provided by the PNRR, more and more importance will be given to territorial assistance and territorial medicine; 1,350 community homes and 400 community hospitals will be born, to offer an integrated response to the needs of health and assistance to citizens, especially fragile, elderly or with chronic diseases and also to better protect the health of women and children. In community homes, multidisciplinary teams will work with various specialists and social workers, while community hospitals will have to offer a first response to the immediate health needs of the territory. (at 12:01 a.m.) (continued MAUTON). Particular attention is given to home care: the house as the first place of care, precisely. It is a fundamental point: if the patient is treated in his home, he will live better and even more. Provision is made for the establishment of territorial operational centres (COTs) to connect home services with the hospital and emergency network. In the health objectives of the Plan there will be the strengthening of hospitals, beds in intensive and sub-intensive care. The PNRR Mission 6 programme provides, by summing up, to invest in a National Health Service that is increasingly close to people, in a new health care that is less and less self-centered and more widespread on the territory. In order to do all this - as well as for all other missions - we must continue the projects and achieve the objectives with impartiality, competence and strategy, investing as best possible the funding received. The country needs it, the citizens expect much and politics cannot disappoint them. The 5 Star Movimento will play its part, as always, in the sole interest of our communities. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary of Floridia and thank her very much for the extraordinary work she has done over the past few weeks to the rapporteurs and the Presidents of the Commission, who have worked in a very complex climate with great seriousness and authority. Thanks go to all the parliamentary groups, starting with those of the majority, but also those of the opposition, because there has never been a lack of dialogue and confrontation in these weeks. I thank the Government because, after so many difficult and complicated days, even with very special times, we managed to have a text definitely greatly improved compared to that of departure. Today - as my previous colleagues and colleagues have also said - we are debating a very important decree, indispensable for the implementation of the PNRR, in various areas: public administration, university and research, but also the environment, touching on subjects such as renewable sources, energy efficiency, health, health, passing through the heart of infrastructures and special economic zones (SEZs). Already briefly review some of the matters directly affected by this measure makes us aware of the central importance and the system of such intervention. I can only be satisfied, therefore, with the way in which Parliament's groups work, which in a constructive spirit have also been able to give up something with a view to a common objective. I believe that this modus operandi is not only a win-win method for this measure, but is the key to restoring centrality to Parliament. [[Applause]] and the important role that we are called to play. I insist, President, on the centrality of Parliament. Let's say in fact to the end: the beginning was not the best, but there was a great compactness and a great seriousness of all the parliamentary groups. It is in fact Parliament that then improves the decrees and laws, and this is the place where you decide, you compare and you work to improve some texts that perhaps do not always accept the demands of the country. I should like to thank the whole of Parliament for this constructive and cooperative spirit. We in Italy Viva have asked and obtained the commitment of the Government on many issues that were at our heart and also of this we are satisfied; starting, for example, from the Government's commitment to evaluate the possibility of awarding scholarships for all the resident doctors who have not yet received them for the years 1983 to 1991. The commitment required of the Government stems precisely from the need, which I expressed last week in this House during the question time with the Minister of University and Research, to remedy at last the unequal treatment between specialists of different years, which has lasted too long over the years, despite the indications from the Court of Justice. On the other hand, with our amendment proposal, we have asked for a small extension of a few months for small municipalities, with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, which have received contributions for the safety of schools, roads, public buildings and for the removal of architectural barriers, which are required to start the execution of the works by 15 September 2022. I would also remind you that an amendment by Italy Viva-PSI has increased the organic plant of the Customs and Monopolies Agency in relation to general management, in order to meet the needs arising from the current crisis in Ukraine. In time, however, I would like to focus on a specific area that is the school sector, not only because it is one of the areas covered by this Plan, but also and above all because here we are called to lay down new rules that must apply both to teachers and to their training. It is certainly not a small thing. The proper training of teachers inevitably affects the quality of the training of our students and, with a long-term vision, our future. The school has shown itself to be able to shape and adapt in these long years of pandemic, which have imposed new rules, new ways of learning, in short, a new way of also doing school. With this measure we intervene massively and in many respects on this sensitive and important sector. Precisely because of the constructive and collaborative atmosphere that I mentioned at the beginning, we have introduced some improvements, many of which are proposed by our party. I am referring, for example, to all changes aimed at improving the initial training path of aspiring teachers or changes for the support that we have always defined as a real emergency in the emergency. In this respect, our amendment introduces the possibility until 2025 to employ teachers already in possession of the qualification without a time limit. The solutions identified are also positive both for the certification of teachers of equal schools and for the competition for teachers of religion, who have been precarious for too long. There is, however, still some concern about the transitional phase from the old to the new regime, the enhancement of training on the ground and the link between professional development and career. But there are two major problems that like Italy Viva-PSI we have found, on which for the moment a buffer solution has been found, but on which I hope you will soon arrive to a solution of wide range and system. I refer to the question of the teacher's card cutting and the reduction of the staff. The cut of the Teacher's Charter, provided for in the text of the Decree-Law, was averted until 2024, thanks to our work and the unitary effort of the majority of Government, which allowed to find all the necessary resources. The Teacher's Charter, which makes available to each teaching staff 500 euros a year for their updating, one of the great innovations - introduced by the "Good School" of the Renzi government - most appreciated by the teaching staff, is absolutely untouchable in all its parts. The MEF's commitment, achieved yesterday, is to prevent the cut even for the following years in the budget law. This is where we will fight and have also presented as a majority a binding agenda - which has been approved - so that this measure of the Teacher's Charter can become structural, finally stable and continuous. On the other hand, the reduction of the workforce compared to the initial text which abolished many jobs has taken a small step forward, leading back to the Ministry of Education, not to that of the economy, the responsibility to identify its forms and ways. However, we will certainly not be satisfied until the resources are fully found outside the education sector. The PNRR provides for a series of investments on the school, but it has chosen to find the necessary cover within the same school sector, which is obviously already suffering. On these two points we will monitor the government's work so that as soon as possible the distortions present will be healed. So again, I thank my colleagues for all the work we have done together and we will continue to work so that the school - as President Draghi has said since its establishment - can truly become the priority of this country. It's an investment, it's not a social expense. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u39	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to speak on the subject of the PNRR by splitting the reasoning into macro and micro-economics. I start from the reasoning about microeconomy and I am referring to the first two aspects that each of us should have in mind when thinking about the PNRR. I am thinking of the local authorities and I am addressing, above all, those colleagues who, like me, live in peripheral situations and are close to the problems of the small municipalities, which are the great wealth of our country, and know very well how difficult our local authorities are encountering - I repeat - in the effective achievement of the results of the PNRR. I believe that each of you, at least once, has been called by mayors and local administrators concerned that, with their own structures, they are unable to respond to the PNRR's calls and sometimes cannot even fully understand their prospects. The first question I have to ask the Undersecretary and the Government is then what is really being done, because we are not at the beginning, but we are in the middle of the PNRR's activity. There's no way that so many administrators still don't know where to bang their heads. This is the first point that the Government should keep in mind if it really cares about the good result and especially the good transition in the economy and territories of the investments that could be produced by the PNRR. The other sector, which is obviously connected to it, is the construction sector, because we know very well that all infrastructure depends on and is linked to the efficient functioning of the construction sector. I would like to open a parenthesis then, to remind you that this sector is dying, that it is suffering greatly from another lack of government, that is, the fact that the tax credits linked to the building bonuses are blocked. We have dozens of companies that have put workers in cash, dozens of companies that can't pay for suppliers, dozens of companies that risk bankruptcy. And I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that, like my phone and my computer, they are overburdened by the cries of pain of Italian companies and artisans in the construction sector, even yours cannot but be equally attentive. And what is the government doing? Do we really want to kill the heart of Italian construction and then think about realizing the PNRR projects and infrastructure when we no longer have companies? Will we take them from France, perhaps thanks to those who have privileged relations in France? Is that what we want to do? Otherwise it is not explained how to combine the blockage to the enterprises through the cessions of the credits with the realization of a PNRR that obviously demands an Italian building capable of carrying out these works. [[Applause]] The theme is the relationship with SMEs. We were taught by the Marshall Plan, in the 1950s, that a national and international investment plan is effective when the private sector is involved. How did you involve our SMEs and when did you involve them? They're in exactly the same situation as those mayors on the outskirts who don't know where to bang their heads. There is another wish that I would like to address to the Government: move, because time is no longer there. I would therefore pass, for the sake of time, to some reasoning in macro terms. I would like to remind you, as Gustavo Piga brilliantly explained in an article in the magazine "Il Libero Professionista," that the provision of PNRR funds is linked and conditioned by fiscal compact. Let's go back to this bad word, which has penalized Italy so much, for our passivity in previous years. Well the fiscal compact, that is the famous 3% in the debt-to-GDP ratio, can still condition the disbursement of the funds, because Article 21 of Regulation (EU) 2021/241 (the one establishing the recovery plan, before the PNRR), provides for a suspension of the fiscal compact; but this is not normal. So today we're going to be back in the fiscal compact, if the government doesn't act immediately, and we risk, due to the obvious impossibility of falling back into the parameters of the fiscal compact, to see us block the financing of the PNRR. I therefore suggest to President Draghi to read Gustavo Piga's article and to deepen what the freelancers are emphasizing and screaming, moreover in the usual carelessness towards the category, which is now a habit. Again on these issues, what are we going to do about the issue of the economy and inflation? Are we going to follow the path of monetary policy, as in the United States, where inflation comes from an excess of demand, or do we think we are going to change strategy, because inflation in Italy and Europe is not due to an excess of demand, but to a supply shock, because of the increase of raw materials? So a monetary policy of austerity serves very little, indeed creates stagflation. We would like to have some answers on this point from Minister Franco and President Draghi; we do not agree to move Italy towards the policy of stagflation, but we are asking for development policies and therefore we are asking for action with a view to employment. I run, because I see that time is running thin, and I move on to a brief summary, to remind the Undersecretary and the Government that the first results of the PNRR are certainly not exciting. It also says "The Messenger" these days, talking about the flop of employment centers. We should in fact guarantee 16,000 jobs in employment centres, so that those receiving the new employment social insurance (NASPI) and citizenship income can be given work. They are therefore 16,000 people to be hired, thanks to the 5 billion euros of the PNRR, but the Regions have hired only 3,000 of them, with a frightening delay, moreover in a country that first does the measures, that is, gives the money, and then creates the tools that should have anticipated the measure. If, for the income of citizenship, the employment instruments had previously been envisaged - I repeat - and only once they had been active had they been expected to be paid out, it would have been a reasoning on which one could be confronted. The opposite is the case, and even with PNRR funds we are not able to hire the professionals needed to create jobs. Let's remember, therefore, also looking at the simple numbers provided by the Government, that in the two years 2020-2021, that is in the last two years, the Government, of the 15 billion euros of expenditure expected, has spent 5 and therefore we have a rate of absorption of the funds of the PNRR that is a third of the planned. Would this be the Government of the best, which has planned 15 billion euros and spent 5 billion euros in the two-year period 2020-2021, according to official data? As regards the prospects, I welcome the fact that this morning Mr Cingolani finally gave a clear answer on the subject of gas and said, in answer to my question in 10a. The Commission has finally realised that national deposits must be recovered. I am pleased: better late than never, as I said in the Commission. In the answer, however, the government also says that there is no investment, that we must invest to reopen the wells, that is not easy, because we lack, we have deficiencies and we have maintenance to do. I would like to ask the Undersecretary what we are doing to ensure that PNRR's money flows into those gas investments, but I am also thinking of rare lands, lithium and the great mineral deposits we have in Italy. I therefore ask what is being done to invest in the direction of energy autonomy, which would be a first response to the geopolitical crisis, not to give resources to those who want to wage war, such as Russia. Mr President, in conclusion, this would respond above all to the need to give Italians, businesses and citizens the energy they need. Mr President, representative of the Government, let us therefore make these investments and try to be more effective than unfortunately, despite the constant warnings of the Brothers of Italy Group, the majority has been able to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the two rapporteurs and the Presidents of the Commission for their work and patience, and in the course of my speech I will explain why my thanks are not only in form but also in substance. The Decree-Law under consideration, which has been hesitated by Commissions 1a and 7a, introduces further urgent measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, after those already introduced by Decree-Law 152 of 2021. In particular, the text, which introduces or complements the provisions to ensure that the public administration can implement a plan in the various sectors involved, has been supplemented with rules that provide, first of all, new rules for initial and continuing training and for the recruitment of secondary school teachers, and, secondly, certain paths for those who want to teach and define more clearly the objectives and methods of teacher training throughout their training course, with annual courses to recruit staff more consistently, opening the doors to young people. The content of the decree issued in early May of the second year of the PNRR certainly indicates a certain delay in the implementation of the Italian plan; at the same time, it highlights the desire to remedy this delay of time and ensures to correct and integrate some rules in this matter. Additional financial resources are also allocated - to tell the truth few - where necessary for the implementation of the plan, in some cases also specifying the use of appropriations already in the budget. Regulatory interventions are mainly aimed at speeding up the procedures of public administration in the implementation of the plan, but also new procedures in the field of education and university become an integral part of a system that, improving its efficiency, can contribute to the recovery and resilience of the country. During the wide-ranging round of hearings, qualified proposals were received from key stakeholders in the sectors involved to improve the text. Of course, the gap between demand and supply of teachers in the school must be filled, testified by the abnormal number of annual supplements, because this hinders the continuity of teaching and greatly penalizes the training of our children. Moreover, it is necessary to aim for a more careful training of the same teachers who then have to pass on their knowledge to the children. It is therefore essential to aim for initial training and continuous and quality of the teaching staff in order to guarantee higher teaching standards throughout the national territory and the certified training of those who teach becomes an element to be pursued also for those who teach in the university. Having said that, it is necessary to enter into the perspective of a school that also rewards teachers who continue to train, but which also allows them to access the most appropriate career and salary progressions. The decree is also an opportunity to develop several other provisions, especially concerning the full implementation of the plan, when administrative reinforcement is required to make the use of funds take off in the various sectors involved. In addition, several provisions concern the ecological transition, which now becomes an even more essential point in government action, placing the centrality of the reference of new energy sources alternative to traditional sources. At the same time, the importance of implementing the digital transition is confirmed. There are still concrete measures to accompany the recovery of tourism and the guarantees for the full operation of the sector. Measures are also foreseen on procedures relating to the Space Agency, cybersecurity, as well as infrastructure, cultural heritage, special economic areas and simplified logistics areas. As far as the Forza Italia Group is concerned, we spoke in an amendment to Article 2, providing that, among the professionalism and experience requirements of the participants in the public competitions review boards, specialists in work psychology and human resources were included. Moreover, in Article 3, we have avoided that the rule also applies to the military personnel of the police forces, since the possibility of submitting the competitions for the military personnel of the police forces to the general discipline of the competitions for the public administrations, as defined in Article 3, would have been dysfunctional in relation to the peculiarity of the human resources to be found and the entity per year of the procedures to be banned. In addition, we have included among the exams for competitions intended for the regulation of non-directional personnel measures to ascertain the possession of a language and also the assessment of logical-technical and behavioural skills. We have proposed - and it has been accepted - the extension to 31 December 2024 of the entry into force of the Madia law. In Article 4 we have provided that the training courses referred to in Article 5, as well as compulsory, are also carried out mandatoryly and in any case of promotion of staff to higher roles or functions, as well as in cases of transfer. In Article 7, recalling the rules that provide for the transfer to sports organisations of a share of the fund referred to in Article 1, paragraph 561 of Law No 178 of 2020, we have provided that the criteria and implementing arrangements for the allocation of resources are defined by an autonomous decree of the competent government authority in the matter of sport. In Article 10 - with regard to the possibility for public administrations to resort to persons placed in quiescence in order to meet the needs of re-launching investments - we have expunged the minimum term of two years from going into quiescence for the possibility of hiring as advisors, agreeing in this sense also with other Groups. In Article 11, we have strengthened cohesion policies with specific reference to the Territorial Cohesion Agency, and we have also introduced the possibility - in order to strengthen the administrative capacity of local authorities in the South - of allowing the Cohesion Agency to proceed to the contractualisation of collaborations with professionals and staff with high specialisation. In Article 12, we have provided for the normal continuation of training activities carried out by the national school of the administration, avoiding any financial burden on public finances arising from the current scenario. In Article 14 the term of office of the president and members of the organs of ANVUR has been increased from four to six years and in Article 18 we have extended the deadline for the conclusion of the definitive act of sale, in view of the current economic situations, the contemporaneity of more interventions on the national territory, the diminished availability of materials and means, the scarcity of labour, the need to guarantee the interventions in absolute safety. All this involved a time span of well over twenty-four months for its implementation. Therefore, in the state, many initiatives launched in 2021 risked not being able to take advantage of the deductions as the work will last at least until 31 December 2022. In Article 15 we have provided for the strengthening of the organizational structure of the Transport Regulatory Authority through the insertion of 30 fixed-term units. In addition, in order to ensure the protection of the rights of minors, we have strengthened in a structural way the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence as a third and independent authority, with a maximum of 23 units, of which two with the qualification of second-class manager and one with the qualification of first-class manager. In Article 16, we have successfully proposed the reorganisation and strengthening of the Customs and Monopolies Agency in the fields of energy products, goods and genres subject to the monopoly regime, with the increase of seven units of organic endowment of general management. In Article 16, too, an amendment has been accepted which strengthens the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Defence. Thanks to our amending initiative, Article 17 has been done to stabilise 1,200 units in the judicial offices, as has already been said. In Article 18, where an obligation - placed in the hands of traders and professionals - to accept electronic payments with a single debit or credit card was required, prepaid cards were entered. We have then inserted the possibility - in the Regions of Abruzzo, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Molise, Puglia, Sardinia and Sicily - to benefit from capital contributions for investment projects by amateur sports associations and clubs, national sports federations, sports promotion agencies, public bodies that manage or are owners of swimming pools or sports infrastructure. Again, we have provided for the possibility of using the Spid as an electronic identification tool for access to services even in online contexts, and so we have done in other interventions under Articles 32, 37 and 43. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the two Presidents once and for all that Parliament has shown itself to be authoritative in the performance of its duties, when it had to deal with the whole area of the school, where a message seemed to have been sent that the Government was seeking to respect Parliament, and the latter, on the other hand, was made up of people who wanted to hinder it. All this is not and has not been, in fact, in the end the authority and commitment of the rapporteurs, and especially of the Presidents, has allowed to bring down not the Ministers, not the Government, but the bureaucracy, which is the real problem. If there is a delay in the PNRR, it is not the fault of Parliament, it is the fault of the bureaucracy and indeed Parliament must be thanked for having followed with measures the delays in putting the Government in a position to comply with the commitments made with Europe. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u43	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to say first of all that it is a pleasure to finally speak without a mask. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, Senator Tatjana Rojc and Senator Andrea Cangini, the Presidents of the two Contact Committees 1a and 7a, respectively Senator Dario Parrini and Senator Riccardo Nencini, as well as of course all the officials of the legislative offices of both the parliamentary groups and the committees involved. Mr President, I wanted to thank all my fellow Senators of Commissions 1a and 7a for saying that the work on this decree-law was largely and responsibly followed by all the political forces of the parliamentary majority with the only common objective of concluding it within the necessary time, in order to avoid its decadence, despite having very close times (there was therefore this danger), with the risk of not respecting the deadline of 30 June linked to the PNRR for the provision of a tranche of funds allocated to our country in the context of the Next generation EU, equal to 24 billion. In addition to this premise, it must be remembered and fixed in the minds of everyone who has been allocated around 190 billion euros in the framework of the PNRR to Italy between loans and grants that are not provided in a single solution, but in successive instalments and subordinate to compliance with a strict roadmap, which provides, for every intervention contained in the PNRR, the respect of some deadlines that translate, in short, into a series of new regulations and reforms that ask us Europe. If we want to say that in other words, Europe lends us money more simply, but we must do as Europe tells us and according to its guidelines. Having said that, the subject of the Decree-Law, which contains urgent measures for the implementation of the PNRR, is clear. In all, there are 50 articles covering all sectors, with a substantial part relating to the reform of the school which, by common agreement between all the majority forces, has decided to examine in an unusual way the political affiliations, putting aside the shared objectives to be achieved in order to remedy the distortions which, already in informal meetings prior to the approval of the measure in the Council of Ministers, such as 7a The Commission had made it abundantly clear, however, that the matter was dealt with in a separate decree-law. When we did not listen, we took into account the situation, convinced first of all that the reform of the school contained in Articles 44, 45, 46 and 47 of the decree-law in question could not be based on the denatality, providing for the cutting of 10,000 teachers, but rather should be based on the words spoken by the President of the Council on the occasion of his installation, when he said that it is necessary to invest in the training of the teaching staff, in order to align the educational supply to the demand of the new generations. We add that this applies to all categories of teachers, putting fresh resources and not, as required by the decree-law, going to find the resources for the payment of the tutors of the internship and the training in entry, subtracting them from the teaching card, but with specific funding of the state budget. There is no question of covering the costs of financing the training incentive fund through rationalization, which means reducing the legal staff, starting from the school year in 2026-2027, with particular reference to the annual quota of the staff posts for upgrading, based on the fact that if there is a denatality there will be a need for a smaller number of teachers. A distorted way, in our opinion, to understand a reform that, on the contrary, should give all teachers who have been working in the school for years the same opportunities to form and enable themselves, without being deprived of the instrument that allows their training, i.e. the teacher card. On this the parliamentary majority was unshakable and in the numerous meetings, not least that of yesterday morning, we continued to affirm the need to correct what the Government provided for in the decree, until the clash with the Government itself. The government, for its part, has been solid in affirming that Europe wants reform in this way and that it cannot be done otherwise; until we feel, even, that we bear the responsibility of a shortage in the coffers of the state if we had made the decree lapse, resulting in no disbursement of the planned tranche of 24 billion. We have come to the end, only for a few hours and after countless meetings and negotiations with the Government, to a compromise, succeeding first of all to avoid the cut of 10,000 places of reinforcement; to insert fresh resources for training; to not cut the teacher card, with the assurance that it will be guaranteed in a structural way by the budget law. Improvement agreements to the government text which were approved in the Commission also include access, for the first three cycles of the initial training course, of those who are in service in the school, state or equal, within the limits of the reserve of the places indicated, the remission to national bargaining of the incentive, the return to the beehive of the negotiation of the definition of the number of additional hours, access to specialization on support for those who have already carried out three years of activity. It is regrettable that thousands of precarious people have been unable to secure a certain future, that they have assured the survival of the school system for years and that they have not been able to qualify for the lack of training courses for nine years. This is why enabling pathways should have been provided for all categories of teachers. Moreover, it was necessary to provide for a longer transitional phase in order to absorb the historical precariousness, since in 2024 certainly it will not be done in time, and moreover to the precarious ones a pre-elective test will have to be administered. Finally, it would have been useful also to reopen the merit rankings of the eligible in the competitions. In summary, we have had results, but with great difficulty. I would also like to point out that, beyond the so-called school package, on which we have all agreed and which mainly committed the 7th Commission, with regard to the rest of the article, I have unfortunately seen, reluctantly, a disparity in the treatment of the amendments proposed according to the various political groups. It is not difficult to verify, from a table that we have taken the trouble to compile, as, while some political groups have accepted amendments, even considerably burdensome, for others it has not been so. For example, ours, which had few amendments accepted and also not burdensome. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I'd like the government to explain this to us. In conclusion, Mr President, for our part, that is, by the parliamentary majority, there has been a great deal of responsibility, demonstrated precisely by the fact that we have been able to abandon our flagship proposals in order to achieve the objectives. In this majority, the League continues to play its part responsibly and purposefully and is demonstrating this widely. In view of this, Mr President, I would like the Government to be equally responsible and ready to accept and defend the demands of Italian citizens in the face of Europe. I would like the government not to bow passively to the demands of a Europe, which looks coldly and detachedly at the Italian people, concerned only with systematically planning society. Italy, with its citizens, deserves detailed attention, because its specificities and its peculiarities have made it a great country. Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, it is a matter of dignity and we do not want to lose it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u46	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the urgent measures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan needed to improve it and make it fluid. As a member of the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods I stress the importance of environmental measures that mainly concern renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, irrigation use of water, waste, governance of the Ministry of the ecological transition and public health for environmental risks. More specifically, the production and use of green hydrogen (which is derived from renewable energy sources) is promoted; action is taken on the derivation concessions for irrigation use to prevent illegal water extraction; procedures for the approval of basin plans are facilitated; the management plan for debris linked to seismic events is introduced in regional waste management plans; technical and operational support is provided to the Ministry of the ecological transition to implement the PNRR measures; the National System for the prevention of health from environmental and climate risks is established. The commitment of the members of the 5 Star Movimento of the Commission territory, environment and environmental assets was considerable in the consultative forum, providing many comments to the competent Commissions, and fruitful in an amending way, having adopted three important amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am referring first of all to the amendment by Mr Pavanelli and others, which states that producers and users participating in an autonomous collection system or a private consortium shall cover the costs of collecting and managing packaging waste produced by them and delivered to the public collection service, even when recovery and recycling targets can be achieved through collection on private areas. This is in order not to burden the municipalities, therefore the citizens, economically and for the benefit of environmental protection. Mrs L'Abbate's amendment extends by four months the deadline for contributions to the municipalities for energy efficiency and sustainable territorial development measures, in order to ensure that municipalities with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants (i.e. those with more difficulties) carry out interventions aimed at the safety of schools, roads, public buildings and municipal heritage, as well as for the removal of architectural barriers for the benefit of the community, as well as for the increase of energy efficiency and sustainable development. Finally, I very much welcome the adoption of an amendment, to my first signature, of enormous ecological value, which rewards my scientific commitment to precision agriculture and legislation, having deposited on the subject a bill assigned to the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production. This amendment, among other things, aligns the PNRR with the very serious emergencies of drought and war in Ukraine, which are bringing our agro-food sector to its knees. It is a matter of adopting, within one hundred and twenty days of the approval of this measure, a decree of the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies with which to identify the cases and technical conditions of detail for the use of sustainable energy and intelligent precision agriculture techniques, which contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to the decarbonisation and the sustainable use of natural resources, as well as to the better use of environmental matrixes. This is the first time that precision agriculture has been regulated in Italy. It is standardized all over the world and in Italy we will adapt by standardizing this extraordinary technique. The amendment aims to encourage the dissemination of innovation and technology transfer in the agricultural, food and forestry sectors. This is all the more timely and necessary in drought times, destined to increase due to the lifting of the tropical climate band, in turn due to climate change, due to the global warming that has human causes (greenhouse gases). On the one hand, it is necessary to adapt to climate change and, on the other, to combat climate change. Precision agriculture is a great and intelligent strategy for both these needs. It is the perfect combination of technological innovation and environmental sustainability. In terms of innovation, precision agriculture researches and develops enabling technologies of industry 4.0 that are able to carry out preventive soil characterizations to be cultivated, to establish the optimal needs of water, nutrients and treatments. Essentially, precision farming means intervening at the right time, at the right point, with the right technical means and with the right dosage; all on the basis of a preventive physical, chemical and biological knowledge of the soils, with methods of geostatistic analysis calibrated and validated. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In terms of sustainability, the smart precision farming guarantees the care and protection of the soil resource, as it can save 30 percent, but also more, of agronomic inputs (water, fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides), while improving the quantity and quality of production. The reduction of chemicals is beneficial for the environment, as greenhouse gases are introduced into the atmosphere and into use, and all environmental matrixes are polluted. In addition, the optimisation of the use of agronomic practices, thanks to the integrated use of advanced technologies, results in cost savings resulting in greater profitability and competitiveness of agricultural enterprises and greater environmental sustainability. Precision farming techniques can be conveniently used for all types of agriculture (conventional, integrated, organic) and could also benefit small producers. Precision techniques are what is needed for agriculture to become a driving force for the economy, without jeopardising the environmental sustainability of production processes, rather preserving biodiversity and land resources, made of soil fertility and the quality of water reserves. It will certainly be necessary to train new professional figures, starting specific courses of study (university, research doctorates, professional courses). I'll finish. Supporting precision agriculture for the green economy must be a strategic objective for the green and digital transition of the PNRR, because, as well as allowing sustainable development of the agricultural sector, it will make it resilient to foreseeable adverse weather events and the harmful consequences of the geopolitics of agri-food resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u47	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Rojc.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u48	Mr President, allow me to draw a line on these very valuable hours of debate. I believe that the writing behind him shows well what must be followed; everything reminds us of our duties to certainty of the civil progress of a country that, although unique and magnificent, needs to be reformed and sustained in its needs, that will guarantee a future worthy of this name. An important step, as has been reiterated, is that health and ecological transition, therefore the environment, finally find a regulated interaction. I would like to thank my colleagues who have spoken for their shortcomings, their criticalities and their needs in this respect. I am sorry, however, to have to point out the intervention of my colleague, Mr Granato, because of accusations that are sometimes very inappropriate and offensive to those who have suffered bereavement and deprivation. We are all working to reform this country and adapt it to the highest and most competitive standards, not to bring it to self-destruction. Senator Malan mentioned resilience, which is the ability to face and overcome something dramatic and difficult, so the articulated measure needed to be, precisely, a real response to some real needs of the country. It was done well, you could certainly do better (this always and anyway). I was very pleased with the interventions on universities and research. We need to compare ourselves with the skills of young people, so that they can have concrete opportunities in our country: we cannot foresee a future of development without an adequate system of training, and consequently, of access to careers and of valorization of the scientific work of those who are part or are preparing to be part of the academic world and therefore we must give dignity to those who represent our future in the broad European context, which has also been emphasized by Senator Pirro. He is right, it has been noted that the mosaic of the school forms the citizens of tomorrow and for this we are all responsible for hic et nunc. There was talk of the single recruitment platform for public administration, which is extremely important for cross-demand and response, and the needs of those who are less fortunate, and the importance of expanding and enhancing skills has been mentioned. I agree that the PNRR really represents a change of pace to make the Italian system competitive and contemporary. The importance of sharing reflection in this House has been recalled. Criticism of the fact that there is not enough debate or that decisions are being imposed must make us think. I think that the Commissions have also had an open and constructive confrontation with the Government, as it must be when dealing with measures of great political importance. The moment that we are living - it has been found - with the war, the pandemic and the energy crisis, defines and determines political and economic choices that must take into account, however, also the needs of the Country. In this sense, I believe that the decree is strategic, as it combines the needs of the citizens, the governance of the country and the recommendations that come to us from Europe. I would like to point out the attention that has been given to the South, with the allocation of very important funds, and it will be up to us all to ensure that there is no interference that can harm the interests of the regeneration of the territories of the South of the country. It has been emphasized by many colleagues - I want to reiterate - that in this path there has never been a lack of constructive dialogue between all the actors, an open confrontation, sometimes harsh, but always with the awareness that there is a single end that makes us find the square: the good of the country, that exceeds the interests of individual groups and individual parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u49	As established by the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.58 p.m. and resumed at 3.07 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u50	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 23 and 24 June 2022 and subsequent discussion" I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u51	President Casalati, Senators and Senators, the European Council on 23 and 24 June will address the following issues: developments in the war in Ukraine and European support for Kiev, humanitarian, food, energy and security consequences of the conflict, aid to families and businesses affected by the crisis, the prospects for enlargement of the European Union, the follow-up to the Conference on the Future of Europe. We are approaching the fourth month since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which began on 24 February. Moscow continues to attack Ukrainian cities militarily, in an attempt to expand control over the territory and strengthen its position. The fighting in Severodontsk, in the Lugansk region, is particularly fierce. The Russian bombing of Kharkiv, the second most populous city in Ukraine, aggravates the already terrible toll of dead and wounded. At June 20, 4,569 civilians died and 5,69 were injured, according to the United Nations, but the real number is probably much higher. New atrocities against civilians by the Russian army continue to emerge. The responsibilities will be established and war crimes will be punished. Even the number of people fleeing the conflict continues to increase: in Italy alone there are more than 135,000 Ukrainian citizens who have arrived since the beginning of the invasion. I would once again like to express my gratitude to the Italians and Italians who welcomed them. [[Applause]] Italy's strategy, in agreement with the European Union and the G7 allies, moves on two fronts: we support Ukraine and impose sanctions on Russia, so that Moscow will cease hostilities and agree to sit at the negotiating table. During my recent visit to Kiev, along with German Chancellor Scholz, French President Macron and Romanian President Iohannis, I saw closely the devastation of the war and the determination of the Ukrainians to defend their country. [[Applause]] We went to Kiev to testify in person that our countries and the Union are determined to help a European people in their fight to defend their democracy and freedom. During the visit, President Zelensky asked us to continue to support Ukraine in order to achieve a peace that respects their rights and their will. Only an agreed and undeserved peace can be truly lasting. The violent submission and repression of a people at the hands of an army does not bring peace, but the extension of the conflict, perhaps in other ways, certainly with other destructions. The Italian Government, together with the partners of the European Union and the G7, intends to continue to support Ukraine, as this Parliament has given us a mandate to do. Our support for Kiev is also a commitment to the reconstruction of the country. The extraordinary European Council of 30 and 31 May discussed this and the conclusions of the next Council will reaffirm this commitment. It is not a company that can face individual states: the effort must be collective and involve also international bodies and development banks, the World Bank and the Monetary Fund first of all. We want to rebuild, to give a home back to the families that have lost it, to bring children back to schools, to help the recovery of economic and social life in Ukraine. Today it is up to all of us to help Ukraine to be reborn. [[Applause]] In Kiev I reiterated that Italy wants Ukraine in the European Union and wants it to have candidate status. The Italian Government was among the first to support this position with clarity and conviction in Europe and the West and, if I am not mistaken, the first time I said this point was in this Parliament. We will continue to do so at every international meeting, starting with the next European Council. I am aware that not all Member States share this position today, but the Commission's recommendation is an encouraging signal and I trust that the European Council can reach a consensual position on this matter. Most of the countries close to Russia, large and small, now look to the European Union for security, peace and stability. The path from candidate country to Member State is long, due to the demanding structural reforms required, but the European signal must be clear and courageous from the outset. Today, countries, among other things, are able to carry out these structural reforms faster than in the past. On 3 June, the European Council adopted the sixth package of sanctions against Russia. The embargo on all oil and petroleum products imported into Europe by sea has been introduced, respectively since the end of 2022 and the beginning of 2023. European operators will no longer be able to provide and finance oil transport to third countries. Three other Russian banks, including the largest in the country, Sberbank, and a Belarusian bank, have been excluded from the Society for Worldwide interbank financial telecommunications (SWIFT) system; the list of goods subject to export blockades has been expanded, including chemicals that can be used for war purposes; 18 other Russian entities and 65 people are sanctioned, including what is considered to be responsible for the horrors of Bucha; the transmissions of three other Russian state media that spread propaganda have been suspended in Europe. The sanctions work. The International Monetary Fund expects that this year the cost of the Russian economy will be equal to 8.5 points of gross domestic product; time has revealed and is revealing that these measures are increasingly effective. However, I would like to stress once again that our channels of dialogue remain open. We will not stop supporting diplomacy and seeking peace; a peace in terms that Ukraine will choose. In my discussions with President Putin, too, I have repeatedly stressed the need to put an end to the aggression, to talk about peace and to define its terms and times in concrete terms. The European Council will also discuss the enlargement of the Union to the Western Balkans. The Italian Government is in favour of starting accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. Furthermore, in the debate that will begin at this European Council, President Macron will present his commitment to a European political community. As the French President has already made clear, this project will not be a substitute for candidate country status. The end-of-month Council is an opportunity to start looking at the future structure of the Union, its borders, its security and its economic development. The European Commission's positive opinion on Croatia's adoption of the euro since 2023 is an excellent signal, which, of course, Italy welcomes. In recent decades, the enlargement of the European Union has given peace and stability to countries marked by war. Enlargement has transformed the European Union into the largest single market in the world, which represents between 5% and 6% of the population and about one sixth of the global product. It has created new opportunities for cooperation between countries in areas of fundamental importance in the field of energy, transport, food safety, health, study and work; it has stimulated the development of a functioning market economy in the Member States and has encouraged a process of reform since the application for membership. It has extended rights and safeguards at work still absent in other parts of the world; it has provided a powerful incentive for the development of democratic life and respect for human dignity and the rule of law. As written in the Treaty on European Union, any European State which respects these values and undertakes to promote them may request to become a member of the Union. Acceding to these principles is not a secondary consideration, it is at the heart of the European project. The enlargement of the European Union, however, will certainly also involve a profound reflection on the rules governing its functioning in foreign policy, security, economic policy and social policy. [[Applause]] An intergovernmental conference should be convened as soon as possible to discuss how to address this challenge. A stimulus to change also came from the Conference on the future of Europe which ended in May. The proposals of European citizens - especially young people - presented at that time concern issues of great importance for the future of the Union, from climate change to the rule of law, and deserve careful consideration. The current conflict risks creating an extraordinary humanitarian crisis. Wheat supplies are at risk in the poorest countries in the world; already now the port blockade holds millions of tons of cereals from the previous harvest that risk rotting. The devastation of the war will worsen the situation in the coming months. Recent Russian bombings have destroyed the warehouse of one of the largest agricultural terminals in Ukraine, in the port of Nikolaev, which, according to the Ukrainian authorities, contained between 250,000 and 300,000 tons of cereals. The projections provided by Ukraine indicate that cereal production could fall between 40% and 50% compared to last year. We must release the stocks that are in stock in order to unlock supplies for the recipient countries and make room for the new harvest that will arrive in September. In the immediate future it is necessary to carry out demining of the ports and ensure safe exit of the ships. After several failed attempts, I see no alternative to a UN resolution defining the timing of this operation and where the UN guarantees its execution under its aegis. Europe, both on the G7 and bilateral fronts, has put in place a large-scale cooperation effort to help the most vulnerable countries. In recent days Russia has reduced gas supplies to Europe, including Italy. Since the beginning of the war, our Government, this Government, has moved rapidly to find alternative sources of supply to Russian gas. We have made important agreements with various supplier countries, from Algeria to Azerbaijan, and we have also promoted new investments in renewables. Thanks to these measures, we will be able to significantly reduce our dependence on Russian gas as early as next year. Energy price developments in Europe are the basis for rising inflation rates in recent months. In May, inflation in Italy reached 7.3 percent, but underlying inflation, excluding energy and food, is less than half. In order to curb the general increase in prices and to protect the purchasing power of citizens, it is also essential to act - and I also stress, because the fields of intervention are varied and are not limited to this - on the source of the problem and to limit the increases in gas and energy. Governments have the tools to do that. The solution we have been proposing for several months is to impose a ceiling on the price of Russian gas, which would also reduce financial flows to Moscow. The European Council gave the Commission a mandate to examine the possibility of introducing a control, a price cap. This measure has become even more urgent in the light of Moscow's reduction in supplies. The supplies are reduced, the price increases, the collection by Moscow remains the same, the difficulties for Europe increase dramatically. Europe must move quickly and decisively to protect its citizens from the consequences of the crisis triggered by the war. Since last year, Italy has allocated around 30 billion in aid to families and businesses. Part of these interventions have been financed with an extraordinary contribution from large energy companies, which have gained huge profits thanks to the increase in prices. With this measure, we have therefore called on companies that have benefited from exceptional increases to share at costs that the whole of society is bearing. It was a choice dictated by a principle of solidarity and responsibility. Italy will continue to work with the European Union and our G7 partners to support Ukraine, seek peace and overcome this crisis. This is the mandate that the government has received from Parliament, from you. This is the guide for our action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u52	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when I entered Parliament, but also in recent years, this parliamentary debate would have ended as follows: the Senate of the Republic, after hearing the communication from the President of the Council of Ministers, approved it. [[Applause]] I think it would be a decent page for Parliament, because the theatre that is developing outside this House is simply incomprehensible: and I use a very demo-Christian term, in the sense that I want to be kind. ( [[Applause).]] Incomprehensible theater, because it is clearly foreign to the subject that is being discussed, because the subject under discussion, while being dramatic and concerning the lives of millions of people, is a pretext to include and discuss other issues. Colleagues, speaking on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, I am totally convinced that in the report of the President of the Council there is everything, first of all our commitment to peace that must be accepted by the country that has been attacked and that we support for the simple reason that we cannot endorse, as a new international rule, the overpowering of the strong against the weak. ( [[Applause]] ). Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we, with your words, are committed to peace, we are committed to supporting the Ukrainian Government and we are committed, ladies and gentlemen, to a project and an idea for Europe. The President of the Council spoke about the new assumptions that are on the table: the enlargement of Europe to the Western Balkans; the "Macronian" hypothesis of the new European political community; the obsolete rules that the European Union has and must be overcome. So, it's all in his relationship, and it's useless to lick in with other things. Colleagues, I would like to end with one thought. What is the force of dictatorships in relation to democracies? Think about it for a minute. The strength lies in the fact that dictatorships have the advantage of time: a dictator decides from morning to evening, while the President of the Council, rightly, speaks to his Council of Ministers and then reports to Parliament. The dictatorships have an advantage, which is the timing. We cannot fail to be aware of this. When we argued in this House in recent months that the time and effort to support Kiev would be the keystone of the resistance of democracies, we had already clearly understood what would appear and that, unfortunately, it is manifesting itself. With the passing of time the strength of resistance decreases because there are interests, there are the food problem and the energy problem, there is inflation and democracies are not used to resisting. Colleagues, let us then give, all the more reason, the sign of a serious country. When I saw you, along with your colleagues, inside that train, I thought we were really on the right side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u54	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u55	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in the life of a Parliament in which everyone's interest must prevail over the parties. We are holding this debate today, June 21, the day of the summer solstice, in which in theory there is more light. In planetary politics it is the day when there has been less light for a long time. Those who make politics and have a passion for politics and those who want to study things know that last February 24 everything changed: the balances that were at the basis of the agreements reached at the Yalta Conference have failed and the consequences of what happened we will see them for decades and generations, because they go far beyond the borders of Ukraine, although of course important. We are not discussing Crimea and Donbass. The future of the world is being discussed: from wheat grain, that is, geopolitics and food sovereignty, to space, because for the first time since the 1960s elements of division are being introduced also between space missions. It is an epochal change that concerns energy, food and, of course, our ability to confront democracies and not democracies, as Mr Casini said. It's a huge theme. Faced with this, the citizen who follows politics, but who does not have all the tools of personal passion to be able to deepen every step, feels invaded by a feeling of distrust. More than summer solstice! You see dark when you go gas-filled or you have to pay a bill that's three times that of last year. You tell him we've gone through a lot. But he says he doesn't know what we've done, but he knows he pays a bill that's tripled. The citizen - let me say this - also has the psychological concern linked to an understandable feeling. After two years of Covid we had told ourselves to leave, but there came a problem that - perhaps - is potentially even more serious than the pandemic emergency, which, by the way, is not over, although it is of course much less serious. Faced with this, I think there is something to be said to this House about the discussions on what Casini called "theatre," and I agree. I am not one of those who can be scandalized if discussions are opened within the parties, and I am not one of those who can theorize that discussions in the parties harm democracy: it is not necessarily so; the opposite is not necessarily true, but it is not necessarily so. We're professionals, we're not a gang of populists, so we know these things happen. What we can ask everyone and everyone is to be serious about the country's priorities, because the gravity of the international situation, which brings together famine, drought, the energy crisis, the demographic crisis, an existential problem on this planet (we also get to talk about nuclear war), requires that those who want to divide do so respecting the dignity and honour of this Parliament and this political game [[Applause]] , and not looking for alibis and fake alibis for their own discussions. [[Applause]] Let's be clear: a river has tracified and the banks will no longer be the ones before; we don't make fun of each other. The river has overwhelmed and today, after 24 February, we must go to do the damage count; indeed, before that, we must block the flood. It is clear that when Draghi, along with Macron and Scholz, travels by train, he gives a message of pride to the country system, but - be careful - he also gives a beautiful and difficult message, that Europe either comes out of this crisis or wins over the medium term or does not come out alive. In fact, this crisis will probably not see a winner in the war: on the ground no one will win this war. But either Europe wins peace or, when we are in a difficult situation like the one I have mentioned, we cannot help but see that Russia is pursuing a strategy aimed at shifting the geopolitical axis of the world to the East. We cannot fail to notice what is happening between India and China. We cannot fail to understand what is happening in many parts of the world, from Africa to the Arab countries, who say: you are no longer the center of the world. If we want to be the center of the world again, we must be capable of a political initiative, which is to support Ukraine, but also diplomatic, which is able to write the new page of peace. In this, I believe that the President of the Italian Council, the President of the French Republic and the German Chancellor have represented all of us. To do what? To do something very simple, Mr President. Of course, continue to support Ukraine, and we voted in favour of sanctions to Russia and arms to Ukraine because, without these measures wanted by the Government Dragons, we would have seen Russia taking Ukraine today and a totally different story. [[Applause]] You must be proud to have supported the government at this historic moment. Clearly, this cannot help but lead us to ask questions. When I read - I tell my friend Minister of Defence - that NATO is thinking and that Sweden and Finland are talking to Turkey now, I would like there to be a voice - I am sure Guerini will be among those - that he could tell Turkish friends that we will not sacrifice girls, women, boys, Kurdish men. [[Applause]] , which in recent years have been our element of salvation in the war at ISIS. The world doesn't start today and ends tomorrow. If there had been no Kurdish girls seven years ago, this planet would have been in the hands of Islamic extremists. And I will not agree to trade the freedom and independence of Kurdish women and girls simply for the sake of another international force, which is represented by Turkey. Can we talk about this idea? Can we talk about the fact that international terrorism continues to strike and that the Sikh temples in Kabul and the churches in Nigeria are being hit? We can have the courage to say that the girls, the girls of Kabul did not deserve a year ago the disinterest of the international community, since now no one says anything more [[Applause]] and we are the only ones who continue to stress that those lives are as important as those of the Ukrainians and Italians? I mean - and I start to conclude - that foreign policy is a serious thing; foreign policy is not chasing a tweet, it is not looking for a like, it is not taking a "like". There is a world that is bursting into our hands and the people who follow us from home, our debate is asking us to live up to the challenge of tomorrow, knowing that we Europeans either find a way together or we will not have a future. It is enough to start from the demographic forecasts to see that Nigeria alone, over the next twenty-five years, will be greater not than Italy, but the whole European Union, because it will reach 450 million people, while in Europe we are still, with a flat curve and civilizations, dear friends, end up like this, as the great history of the Roman Empire teaches us and as many pages of history teach us. Today, which is June 21st, I can think of that Shakespeare phrase that says: Now the winter of our discontent is made glorious summer. Well, what is the winter of our discontent? Probably in the political parties that are dividing there are various reasons for discontent, there are various reasons to look at the winter that has expected them or will wait for them, but what must be clear for us from here to the end of 2022 is that we have a responsibility: we are facing the biggest economic crisis of recent years, paradoxically worse than that of 2008-2011, because the cost of living is growing to levels that we have not seen for at least twenty years, when suddenly, with the entry of the euro - which saved us - the prices have doubled. Well, we have this awareness from here to December, so let's be serious, let's be serious, let's argue about serious things. Then there will be an election campaign in the spring of 2023 and you will have fun as you wish, but from here to December 2022 the interest of citizens who at this moment see a winter of discontent not behind them, but before their eyes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u56	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and the Government for the serious, pragmatic and responsible way in which you lead Italy and contribute forcefully and authoritatively in Europe and in even wider forums to define an Italian and European position on this dramatic affair. My support is full. I would like to contribute two things to the debate. The first, which relates to what the President said about President Macron's proposal from the political community, is that I believe that the decision to give an immediate strong signal of will to Ukraine's entry into the European Union is necessary at this time. However, I would also like to point out that many of the most serious problems facing the European Union in recent years have arisen from frustrations that have developed as a result of premature promises of entry into the European Union. This is the case with Turkey, when in 1999, under the emotional impetus of President Chirac, the European Council, failing the Commission's recommendations, rushed to Ankara to make very prompt promises of negotiations and entry, and this has contributed greatly to Turkey's frustration with the European Union. I am not saying that it is not necessary today to give all possible signals to Ukraine, but let us bear in mind that the length of the preparation procedures is not a hatefully bureaucratic reflection, but it is a set of acts that are being done to give sufficient preparation and strength to the country that will enter, so that it does not immediately succumb to the pressure of the single market. It therefore seems to me a political signal of great immediate will to have them, of seriousness in the procedures for preparation, combined with this concept which today can apply to Ukraine and is stimulated by Ukraine, but which could be of a more general nature, of a political community as a sense of common destinies, on which President Macron is working. The second and quickest consideration is the following: you, President, are here today, we are here today, because of Law No 234 of 2012. What is the political ratio of this law that includes these appointments? The law was designed to strengthen Italy's participation in the European Union's decision-making processes. I would like to offer a testimony because it was my Government that presented that law which was passed by a very large majority of Parliament. Before then, the government did not discuss with Parliament the line to follow at the European Council. Taking part in the meetings of the European Council in that period of serious financial crisis, I soon realized that the strongest part at that time, Chancellor Merkel, in order to resist the pressure that came from Italy and France at that table so that Germany would not oppose a proactive governance of the euro area, capable of defeating speculation and restoring confidence in the integrity of the euro, in the face of this pressing, constantly said that she would be willing to meet us, but, it had to take account of Parliament and the Constitutional Court. As long as I calmly pointed out to her once that each of us, sitting at that table, had a Parliament and even a Constitutional Court. It is true, however, that Parliament did not then issue guidelines, constraints, and pressure on the government, which are also useful to give it strength. However, I would like to conclude by saying what else is the political ratio of strengthening the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council with a parliamentary mandate when it was, as is the case in most cases at the European Council, issues among the members of the European Union. In this case, however, it is a matter of defining a position of the whole European Union towards an external country, friend and attack, and I believe that everything can be considered, studied and done with force except to imagine obstacles for particular reasons, which Senators Casini and Renzi have well illustrated, to the action of the Government and the President in this circumstance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u58	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u59	Mr President, the 5 Star Movement since 24 February has firmly condemned Russian military aggression against Ukraine because it is contrary to the most basic principles of international law. Thinking in Europe of the 21st century of changing the borders of a sovereign country with tanks is simply unacceptable and for this reason we immediately sided with the Ukrainian people with humanitarian aid, welcoming refugees and supporting the legitimate resistance of an entire country, although aware that this conflict is the degeneration of a fracture that was and could have been formed years ago. Colleagues, colleagues, by opening a history book, we realize that the most significant dates are marked by wars and even the days we are living will be studied in the history manuals of our children. Then we must strive to change paradigms, without yielding to the same perverse logic of the past. It is essential that we write this story well today. We want when our children and grandchildren read what we are deciding today, to be proud of our work and aware that we have done the impossible to leave him a world in peace. Unfortunately, this will not be an easy task. The recent Russian threats to Lithuania, in case Vilnius does not revoke the blockade on the transit of goods between Kaliningrad and the rest of the Russian Federation, are dangerous. Lithuania has been in NATO since 2004 and the European Union cannot allow this to become the spark that can degenerate the conflict. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration, a few minutes ago we audited the EU ambassador to Moscow, Markus Ederer, who reassured us about the transit of goods. My political strength, however, has always called for a political solution to the conflict. Even in the darkest moments of this war we begged for the light of diplomacy to light up and we will continue to do so until words take the place of bullets. [[Applause]] President Draghi, the pillars that have distinguished our geopolitical location for almost a century are three in a nutshell: the Europeanist, the Atlanticist and the Mediterranean vocation. To think that even one of these three pillars will fail is to cause the entire international structure of our country to collapse, and we have full confidence in this. However, Mr President, it will agree that this cannot and must not prevent us from having a critical posture on certain choices, it must not prevent us from reminding our partners that wars like those against Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya have sown death and destruction just like today's in Ukraine. Then I ask myself and ask you: what is the method of avoiding a war? As I have already pointed out in this House at the beginning of the conflict, the task of politics should be to anticipate problems, to prevent certain degenerations. In some situations it is essential to be rational, not to be overwhelmed by events, not to wear helmet immediately, but to devise alternative solutions, not forgetting the needs of those Italians we represent. As our President Conte did at the European tables, we are calling for national interests, particularly those of the most fragile groups, to be defended with courage and determination. We hope that at those tables there will be the suffering of too many families and businesses that after two years of Covid today also suffer the economic consequences of this conflict. And it is essential, in this historical moment, just as it was done with the recovery fund, even more to develop Keynesian policies that can operate that economic multiplier that our country needs: an example is the 110 percent superbonus, which is relaunching the building sector and is making our homes more sustainable and safer. Then, President Draghi, I tell you clearly: this virtuous measure must be supported and not opposed. [[Applause]] In conclusion, after four months of war, we ask you to speak to the European Council on two points that are important to us: firstly, we call once again for political initiatives aimed at achieving a ceasefire as soon as possible and then a peaceful definition of the conflict; secondly, we need Parliament's full and constant involvement in relation to the political direction that the Italian Government will pursue in European and international fora, including the possible decision to send new military supplies. [[Applause]] I really conclude by saying that after thousands and thousands of victims it is essential to move from arms diplomacy to diplomatic weapons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u60	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, we are here to discuss - if you can say so - what you should say at the next European Council on 23 and 24 June. Well, President, you should go and report to Europe not only what this anomalous and questionable majority of government fixes in the secret chambers of power to make this government continue at all costs, not at all representing the will of the nation, but also and above all what the sovereign Italian people, exhausted and brought to their knees by a pandemic first, by an absurd war in the heart of Europe then and by merciless and devastating speculations of black and dark finance, asks: the Italian people, contrary to what the mere political power puts in place, asks that the Italian State no longer send weapons and weapons lethal to Ukraine, also because we do not know in which hands these weapons will end up, as well explained the Procurator anti-Mafia Gratteri. All those political and diplomatic strategies for the ceasefire can be implemented; indeed, they must have already been implemented in order to prevent the conflict from breaking out in the heart of Europe. In the events there is definitely a "during," there is a "after," but there is also a "before" and there too it was necessary to act. All the productive fabric of the nation, the real one, not that of the banks and the lobby, but that which produces and distributes the wealth equally, that which has reconstructed Italy in the post-war period, that is, the whole world of small and medium-sized enterprises and especially the farmers and the fishermen, who at this moment represent, who can no longer bear the costs of their own enterprises, ask that you, President Draghi, go to Europe and say loudly, loudly and clearly, that we must proceed with priority and determination to try to implement policies to calm down absolutely the cost of gas and oil, because this really seems a premeditated and absurd game to throw out of the economy all small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u62	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u63	Mr President, the Realpolitik, to all our recrimination of the enormous and inconceivable damage of war, systematically responds to us that these are side effects: death, environmental destruction, global hunger, which generates other deaths. But we can well say that international security at this point is also considered by the Government to be a side effect and negligible, since neither the Government nor its majority seem to have been overwhelmed by the very alarming words of the Secretary General of Interpol Stock, who denounced how the enormous amount of weapons circulating in Ukraine is already becoming the subject of criminal, mobster and perhaps terrorist trafficking. His words were: The criminals are already focusing on these weapons. Even weapons used by the military, heavy weapons, will be available on the criminal market. The criminals I'm talking about operate globally, so these weapons will be exchanged between continents. Everything that is transportable will become potentially trafficked in Europe and beyond: not only rifles and guns, but various weapons of war, including portable anti-aircraft and anti-tank missiles. It seems that we do not even have to worry about the fact that, among the weapons from the arsenals of several of the countries of NATO and that we could find on our territory, there are also the famous anti-tank missiles Milan. The old models of these missiles - let us remember, President - have a pointing system that contains and releases thorium, a heavy metal highly radioactive and carcinogenic, of which are already filled the NATO polygons of Cape Teulada and Quirra in Sardinia, where thousands have been shot, with devastating consequences, President, for environment and health. Just last June 10 began the process for environmental disaster of the Cape area, which sees accused several offices of the Army. These missiles were sent to Ukraine officially from France, but also from Italy, although here the Dragons Government entrenches behind the line of state secret (Italian secret, though). Ciliegina on the cake of the Government of the best, who is not ashamed to have brought us with others on the abyss of socio-economic, political, environmental destruction and at the gates of the nuclear war, on 16 June, in the military base of Gadi, was delivered in magna pump, escorted by three Tornado, the first bomber F-35A, capable of deploying bombs with nuclear warheads, already present in Ghedi. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u64	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, this is a very important European Council, which marks the end of the French Presidency, with issues relating to the future of Europe and also to the emergencies before us. We arrive, Mr. Draghi, with a passage that makes history in some way: that photograph in Kiev - his, Emmanuel Macron and Olaf Scholz - shows that today there is no longer the Franco-German axis, but there is a three-engine - Italy, France and Germany - [[Applause]] I am thinking not only of the government, but of all the parliamentary forces. We are therefore aware that this passage and today's vote also question and make everyone responsible, parliamentarians and government. We have a duty to give you a full mandate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we must do so with the country's credibility in mind. I hope and believe that we will have to get there by voting on a resolution with specific commitments, because an important job has been done, which would be wrong to frustrate. I say this because we come to this European Council having done our homework and having maintained the compactness of the Western front and the European front. When I say 'we', I mean the Italian system, because our role has been fundamental: we have been at the forefront of defining the system of sanctions; we have been at the forefront of helping to build up NATO's devices, with important choices and, even questioning our consciences, we have made a clear choice about the type of aid to be given to the Ukrainian people, to exercise their legitimate defence. We did so not lightly, but with the knowledge that we were on the right side, on the side of liberal democracies. From this point of view, I think it is necessary to inaugurate a second phase, as you somehow did with that trip. Today, even in the words of order and in the narration, attention must be shifted to the ability to double diplomatic initiatives in order to achieve peace, ceasefire and the possibility of relaunching negotiations, and to be the protagonists of two operations: on the one hand, there is the issue of energy diversification, the price cap at European level, a battle in which the whole Government and you, Mr President, are in the front row; on the other hand, in addition to the issue of energy, there is the release of wheat, in order to avoid famine. In fact, there are not only European countries, but we must also think about North Africa and the consequences that could come from that territory, in terms of migratory flows and inability to think about a future in those realities. Then there is the issue of candidate status. Here too, I think we have a duty to give a strong signal: we know that the criteria are probably not fully met, but we must be able to judge them with political criteria. Of course, the Copenhagen criteria will also have to be respected and the path will be long. But I welcome the European political community if it is not considered a parking lot, but rather something parallel in which it is said to the Ukrainians and those who choose to look at Brussels and the system of liberal democracies that can immediately embrace the European Community and in that recognize themselves, knowing that the path has already begun. Therefore, the granting of candidacy status is good. At the same time, Mr President, as the Democratic Party, we call for you to be very firm in calling for the opening of negotiations for Albania and Northern Macedonia. [[Applause]] It's our request. We have been working with them for a long time. They look at Italy as a friendly country, which can help them on their way to Europe. Finally, on this, we are now moving towards a multi-speed system: it is in fact the case when it comes to the European political community; the Europe of 27 has made unprecedented progress, it must be cultivated in the achievements achieved. Some changes - as Mr Di Maio also said the other day at the meeting with which we closed the work of the Conference on the future of Europe - can be made to existing treaties. Other changes should probably take place mainly on the subject of fiscal policies, the common foreign and defence policy. Both Minister Di Maio and Minister Guerini know how complicated it is to make decisions on fundamental issues for the future of our continent and not to cry crocodile tears when we witness events such as those that have affected the Kurds in the withdrawal of the United States from Syria or the embarrassing relegation in Afghanistan, leaving Afghan women to their fate. Well, we cannot afford this to happen in the future. From this point of view, we have a duty to consider how to address the challenge of amending the Treaties. We've raised the level of expectations. President, there is not only the Intergovernmental Conference. I think we should also consider a European Convention for the modification of the Treaties involving national parliaments and being able to give answers. I know that it is not easy to build consensus at European level, but together with the Intergovernmental Conference we also keep open the possibility of a European Convention amending the Treaties by involving MEPs and national parliaments, because the future of Europe is at stake today. Finally, I think we must have the courage, just as you and Macron and Scholz have done, to act out of the way if necessary. We've proven it. Today you are celebrating Croatia's entry into the euro; we did so because we acted out of the Treaty. I think that on European foreign policy and defence, at some point, if we realize that the instruments we are putting in place are not enough, we should also have the courage to try to invest in the Community dimension, in political union, because the future of our continent is at stake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u66	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u67	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, while we are meeting here, Lithuania is the subject of a threat to the use of arms by Russia, simply because it has blocked certain goods which are being punished by the European Union. Mr President, I have listened to a few speeches and I am reading them in some press reports. It seems to me to be a debate separated from the reality of what we are witnessing. In four months of war nothing has changed in order to induce Italy to change its strategy. President Draghi - not everyone tells of his meeting, someone never does - at the summit in Washington reiterated to President Biden that it is necessary, alongside the sanctions table, to try to open a table of dialectic, negotiations, to ensure that the ceasefire is reached. All this is always deleted and distorted in the Italian debate. I have listened to a number of previous speakers: we want you to take care of peace, but we never tell you how. I do not understand whether peace for some Senator friends is legitimate for Russia's continued annexation of Ukraine; I do not understand what they mean by peace. Despite the commitment of other foreign Heads of State to the ceasefire, there was nothing on the part of President Putin, no form of dtente; not only did he not stop bombing, but he even intensified the bombing. It is clear to everyone - even to those we have listened to in recent days on television, those who told us that Bucha was a staging - that Putin will stop only when he has achieved some of his strategic goals on the ground. And what were we supposed to do, my fellow senators? Should we have pretended that everything was going well or, cynically, should we have hoped that Russia would invade and conquer Ukraine in a week? I am convinced, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that there is no one here so shameless as to think that if Russia had conquered Ukraine in a week, we would have guaranteed peace in Europe. I think no one is shameless to this point, because it is obvious to everyone, even those who pretend not to know, that, if Russia had conquered and annexed Ukraine in a week, the day after the war camp would necessarily and inevitably widen. So what do we have to do? I believe that, with the exception of some exploitation, in this House we all want peace, and that the Manichaean division between warriors and pacifists is ridiculous. However, there are those who want to pursue peace with seriousness and consistency with the history and credibility of Italy, if we want to be a credible country; with that seriousness and credibility that allowed us to live in seventy years of peace. This is a way to pursue peace. In my view, there are those who, instead, pursue peace by exploiting and seeking consensus, the zero comma something. That's the real discrimination. If we do not start from the watershed of February 24, we risk witnessing a dialogue between deaf people. I too, just before the invasion by Russia, addressed two warnings to Minister Di Maio in his information: first of all, tell allies friends, the best allies, the Americans, not to simplify a complex thing like the Ukrainian affair and then not to give Russia to China. Well, if we do not understand that on February 22, President Putin chose not to face, not to deepen, not to claim those theses, but preferred the bombs and bombings, if for all of us that is not a watershed, we risk not understanding ourselves. I am very frank that Europe, the whole world, the international community have had its moment of appeasement, of softening towards Russia when they have tolerated the annexation of Crimea. Russia didn't shoot a single shot and attached it: we were all convinced that it would stop its expansionist aims. And that's the result. I begin with the conclusion of my speech, recalling some thesis, more of the mincer and vanity than of the elaboration of a thought. In the last four months we have seen so many, too many talk shows in which they have spoken frankly unfounded things: someone, just a week after the attack, indicated to us, like the Oracle of Delphi, that the way out was to get out of the European Union and NATO and nobody asked him what he was saying. We should have denounced the alliance treaties with the Americans and the Union, because we had to take a path alone, alone, in solitude. With who? Going to who? This, then, has become an element of debate; these are the arguments that are being advocated in television programmes. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the most polite adjective they have addressed to you is that you are enslaved to the power of the United States; I use the adjective'servito', but, as you know, they have used another adjective. For those who listen to us, this President-in-Office of the Council is the one who, as President of the ECB, saved the euro against the interests of another currency called the dollar. When you speak, reason, make connections, instead of speculating. The issue of arms, then, is a false theme, because the alternative to not helping Ukrainians, from the first to the last, is to make Russia prevail. That people deserves our solidarity, because the first as the last citizen, its generals, its civil servants, its Premier, have not escaped, have not been corrupted, but are defending their sovereignty. [[Applause]] That's why we're here with them today. Mr President, I should like to close my speech with a thought. We talked about young people; I have two young children, who I look at and to whom I would have wished to give peace, to ensure peace for their future, which is a privilege that we have enjoyed and we have also forgotten how we have achieved it. Perhaps our children will have understood two things: the first is that peace and freedom are not goods that can be transmitted, but must be cured and conquered day after day; the second teaching is to have told them that in life never and never can prevail the bully and especially the violent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u69	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard of economic problems, we have heard of problems, but we have not heard of solutions, if not superficial intentions, to a very great problem, a boulder that hits our national and European society: the biggest economic crisis of the last hundred years. Ignoring the alarming data of the recession and inflation of Istat, we continue with the policy of the ostrich, pretending that everything will be fine, so as to underestimate the interventions and measures that the country should have been doing for a long time and prepare for a long period when we will have to decide whether we warm up or if we eat, because the resources for both our primary needs will not be there for everyone. So I would ask you, Mr Draghi, what economic measures are planned to support our companies and our workers, which are already partly indicated by Europe. What are the interventions to respond to the incipient misery of citizens and families? What are the interventions to help micro and small enterprises to renew themselves, to invest in research, to find solutions to get old and to face, contrasting it, the increase of the cost of energy and the drought, that is literally draining the country? How can 92 per cent of the national production system of small and medium-sized enterprises to which the banking system today has enormous difficulties in granting credit? We already knew that entering into the Ukrainian Russian conflict would undermine energy supply, with the devastating effects of sanctions and sanctions on our companies and the Italian people. And how did you respond to this emergency? He responded by reducing the interventions in favour of measures to access credit, anticipating - we alone in Europe, President Draghi - the gradual abolition of an incentive system such as that of the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, risking to have the taps permanently shut down of the disbursements of already asfittic funds. It is only thanks to the State's support for access to credit, with the guarantee fund, that the Italian work and production system can survive, as the Conte- bis Government did with the liquidity decree: a lesson that you obviously did not learn. [[Applause]] The proposed solutions are new measures in support of a real, serious recapitalisation of Italian micro and small enterprises, perhaps using simple mechanisms, with adequate controls, and forcing those who invest to leave more money on the domestic market and to divert less money on the international market. A real help can come from institutional investors who today, thanks to important returns, invest abroad most of our savings, supporting the economies of the world and much less the Italian one, that those savings entrusted to them. A small one engraved on the superbonus for her and Minister Franco: you cut off the head to the only measure that raised, after ten years of crisis, the building sector, increasing GDP, in 2021 on 2022, by 6,6%. We risk seeing 30,000 businesses on the pavement. A tip: put tax credits back in circulation and empty the tax drawers of companies with water to the throat. [[Applause]] Mr President, we have already seen what happens to countries that are impoverishing and destroying their social and economic fabric while being surrounded by immeasurable international tensions. It is from the Second World War that we should have understood what it means to lose control of all energy sources and that the aim is not to follow the guidelines for renewable energy conversion indicated by Europe for years. What happens today has already happened in history. People reduced to poverty, energy and financial servitude, favour the rise to power of authoritarianism, nationalist, fascist, racist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic regimes, which, with the illusion of a social ransom, plunge the world into the mad, demented and devastating abyss of immense global conflicts. The Italian people, like me, are afraid of a world war and have every reason to do so. Today we know what peoples have experienced before the great world conflicts. We have him under our eyes, President Draghi, around us. We can touch him with our hands and we can't pretend anything: if you get over it. Take this message to Europe. These wars, today and then, always pay her the peoples, the weakest and the most helpless. And for everything that is decided today in Brussels, history, if there is still a future, will judge all of us, including you, and will do so mercilessly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u70	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u71	Mr President, the European Council on 23 and 24 June will talk about facilitating the entry into Europe of Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. What advantages would Europe have in accelerating its entry at a time when this would exacerbate the escalation of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine? The European Parliament resolution of 11 February 2021 lists a very long sequence of critical issues that Ukraine should resolve before it can run for entry into the European Union, including - above all - the great corruption that pervades all the ganglia of society, on which there is a long report of the Court of Auditors of the European Union of September 2021. From his statements and from all those who advocate sending arms to Ukraine, the motivation given to facilitate the entry of these countries into the European Union would be the deterrent to Russia in order to achieve peace more easily. She offends the intelligence of Italians who, although systematically disinformed by mainstream media on the state payroll, do not want this conflict to continue and are not so poor in spirit that they do not distinguish the childish suggestions that accompany the government narrative from the facts that deny it mercilessly. The reality behind these laughable excuses is that Russia's unconditional surrender is sought for the establishment of a unipolar world with American and Anglo-Saxon traction, under the control of finance. We don't have the right. We have no right to exert such pressure on any sovereign country to force it to submit to global governance under market control. We are not on the right side of history, no matter how much you climb on mirrors to make us believe otherwise. And you cannot involve Italy to become, to its detriment, the executioner of a people, the Ukrainian, used in this war for proxy against the Russian Federation to force it to accept a destiny that it did not choose, just as the Italian and European citizens did not choose it. We Europeans today have no democracy to export, no freedom to defend or any humanitarian justification to act in the direction of the expansion of this conflict, since, with a coup, a government that does not enjoy any electoral legitimacy has led our country, despite the will of its inhabitants, to be subject to usury mechanisms of the market and to be a co-belligerant part in a conflict that today comes to an end for the benefit of a counterpart that, until yesterday, was for us strategic eastern partner. And how do you mean, President Draghi, to solve the problem of spreads and public debt in Italy? How did you do it with Greece? Of course, she's experienced it, and maybe that's why they put her where she is now. When you speak to the European Council, remember that you are not authorized to take positions, on behalf of and on behalf of Italian citizens, which conflict with the constitutional dictation, which is unequivocal: Italy repudiates war and operates internationally for peace. Everything else is part of logics that have nothing to do with the values of our culture and that we firmly reject to the sender. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u73	President Draghi, the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin recently declared that Russia wants to take back the territories that belong to it and return to its historical borders. This means not only all the borders of the Soviet Union (i.e. Ukraine, Moldova, the Baltic States and Georgia), but, if we know history, also the Tsarist borders (including Finland) and part of Poland (including Warsaw). It is clear that Finland has been concerned and asks to join NATO and that Eastern Europe too is concerned because Putin has stated that he has aims on it. Our concerns, however, do not end here, because the Russian institutions have finally explained what they intend to denazize Ukraine. They explained to us that Ukraine does not exist, there is no Ukrainian nation, there is no Ukrainian people, there is no Ukrainian language. But Nazi propaganda, from 1990 onwards, has created an anti-Russian Ukrainian nationalism and, therefore, now Russia with its "special operation" must re-educate the Ukrainians and make them understand that they do not exist and that they are Russian. Now, to us who are Westerners this seems absurd, but to those who have grown up in communist regimes and are very familiar with rehabilitation centers, all this seems normal and goes in that direction. I am sorry to have to waste minutes to eliminate some fake news that runs on our media, but unfortunately also within Parliament. The war would be waged to stop the genocide in Donbass: this is a Russian fake news repeated in Italy and also in Parliament. Beyond the matter that the Donbass is not Russian because, given to the hand, 40 percent of the Donbass is inhabited by Russians, the official numbers are the following and I challenge the Italian who usually watches our television to have this perception: the civilian deaths in Donbass in 2021 were 25; in 2020 the civilian deaths were 26; in 2019 they were 27. So no genocide in progress and no genocide to stop. Where do the 14,000 deaths we hear about come from? These are mainly Ukrainian and pro-Russian fighters involved in the Russian invasion of the Donbass, in a scheme we know and which Russia systematically repeats, that is, creating conflict zones in the states it claims: it applies to Transnistria in Moldova, Abkhazia, South Ossetia in Georgia, Donbass in Ukraine. Russia simply wants domination over the territories it claims, including Ukraine. The problem is that the other states do not agree with Russia; they disagree because Russia is not an attractive state. Russia is a poor state and has a lower GDP than Italy, despite having 145 million inhabitants. It is a country that produces nothing and exports only raw materials like a third world country. It is a country with huge income disparities, with enormous corruption, where Putin and his hierarchies show a billionaire wealth that is not well known where it comes from, while 20 million Russians do not even have a bath in the house. This is Russia and it is no wonder that Ukraine, like the rest of Eastern Europe, looks to the West and not to Russia. But Russia, instead of wondering why, decides to intervene with tanks. Luckily, Ukraine resisted this invasion, which according to any military analyst was to last a few days. Russia has invaded Ukraine and Ukraine has amazed the world with a resistance that has never been seen before, without the weapons it needs. Also this lie, repeated by certain journalists - I do not know whether because paid by the Kremlin or because in bad faith - and by certain political forces, according to which Ukraine has already been sufficiently armed, is denied by military analysts. The Ukrainians fight with a piece of artillery every wind in possession of the Russians and with less range and less fire capacity. Resistance is only due to the heroism of that people. Ukraine is experiencing its Risorgimento, fighting for its freedom and independence. And we Italians, that the Risorgimento lived it and that we transformed what others called only a geographical expression in our homeland, should have an empathy towards that people and its Risorgimento. But political choices are made not with empathy, but with reason. And the reason why we must support Ukraine has already explained to us the president of Fratelli d'Italia Giorgia Meloni, and it is very simple, because there lies the Italian national interest. First, Putin's statements are already very clear: if Ukraine capitulates quickly, then it will be up to other European countries and to us as Brothers of Italy would not like the return of Soviet imperialism even in the third millennium. Secondly, very pragmatically, it is not Italy that decides the fate of the war in Ukraine; there is a surreal debate, as if the Italian weapons were fundamental to decide whether Ukraine can resist or not. Well, even if Italy were to betray its international alliances, the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia, Japan, all the rest of the West would continue to defend Ukraine. [[Applause]] It would not change, therefore, the fate of the war, but would change the image and credibility of Italy in the world, making it fall back into that image of a country that is not reliable, as it has often been painted. Brothers of Italy is the movement of Italian patriots: we make our decisions always and only in the interest of the nation. This today means respecting our international alliances, as must always make a great nation like ours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u74	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u75	President Draghi, I could exhaust my speech in one word: resist. Resist, because the reasons that led to your Government, a Government of national unity, are perhaps even more present today than the day when you swore in the hands of the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, given the numbers, the risks and the potential that the pandemic, which we still do not have behind and which we have not yet won definitively, places us. These reasons are even more topical, because we are discussing a geopolitical situation linked to the conflict and invasion of the Ukrainian people, with simply dramatic repercussions. Resist, because our country and our government today need the utmost credibility, seriousness and authority that we can express and you, President, have demonstrated it in European and international as never happened in the recent history of this country. He demonstrated this in his meeting with President Biden only a few weeks ago on his mission to the United States and has demonstrated this in recent days. It is a question not of car pictures, but of how in fact you led the delegation with President Macron and Chancellor Scholz and how wisely you dictated the times and modalities of the path that Ukraine must take as a country from the status of candidate for entry into the European Union, which sums up the position that not only Italy but also Europe are holding. And it sums it up with a phrase I borrow from you, when you reminded us that if Ukraine fails to defend itself, there is no peace and no future. The point is exactly that, before any confrontation or ideological conflict. Hang in there, President, because it is in everyone's eyes that there is a gap between his government action, between the facts that he puts in line one after the other and the constant chatter. I do not know if President Casini used the right term, but I know that political forces, among the main ones, that at a time like this go of ultimatum, penultimateum, appeals and counter appeals, the country does not really know what to do with it. And I say this not in order to make controversy, but because we should be a united Parliament in support of its government's action and not only on foreign policy issues that, of course, would be sufficient. Just think of the news coming from Vilnius in these minutes to understand the gravity and, therefore, the need to have a country united with the political forces that support the government you lead. However, we would need a Parliament united behind a government that needs to run on investments that produce alternative and regasifying energies. Otherwise discussing independence or greater autonomy from Russian gas is propaganda. It should run - as we said this morning in this House - on the achievements of the PNRR. It should still run to overcome bureaucracies and procedures to allow realizations throughout Italy on the topic of clean energy; achievements that give results in the immediate. It should run, President, to counter the two real enemies that the country has before it and that are not electoral enemies and, perhaps, as such, less understandable to this Parliament: the growth of inflation and the growth of public debt. These are two issues that I believe we will have to deal with more seriously in the near future. Hang in there, President, because the majority of our country is tired of this annoying chatter. I believe that populism is not won, as the elections in France show, but it is beginning to highlight all its inability. Mr President, we must also resist those political forces which put electoral convenience before government responsibility. Unfortunately, however, President, there is also to resist those political forces that call themselves convinced supporters of the government, but they cannot do less than the first lawyer of the people who explains to us that its voters would want to pull the plug tomorrow morning. This is the responsibility that the first political forces of our Parliament have. Hang on, Mr President, even to those parties that call themselves Europeanists, but they cannot help but make alliances with Orban's friends, Putin's friends and Brussels' enemies. So you don't go anywhere. When we re-read these five years, when we move away from this legislature, we will join the dots and discover that in the context of those episodes, from the President of the Council who came to explain to us that nothing had happened at Metropol between his Minister of the Interior and a little 'of Russian worlds, from the occupation with the Russian army and generals in the heart of our institutions during the pandemic up to the irresponsible declarations, to open conflict, on the theme of Russia's role in that affair, there is a green yellow culture. It wasn't the accident that created the first government in the legislature. There is a dangerous culture that is not only that populist and sovereignist, but it is also the one that feeds retroscenism, ambiguity, fear, distrust towards the institutions. On that, President, we are with you. You have our full support on this and you will have it on today, on which, if you will allow me, I would like to thank Senator Bonino, who has also made an important contribution to the majority in recent hours on foreign policy issues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u77	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is one hundred and twenty days of war; one hundred and twenty days of television footage, of civilian victims, of children killed. For 120 days, Ukrainian soldiers and Russian soldiers have died at the front. It is one hundred and twenty days of terrible bombings on cities that have been destroyed in these months of war. There has been a debate in Europe, even in Italy, but we cannot lend ourselves to it. It must be very clear to all of us that there are those who have invaded, those who have occupied territories, those who have destroyed cities, those who have destroyed families, those who have brought a country to its knees; instead, there are those who have suffered this violent, illegitimate action. There are those who have bombed our humanity, Mr President, and we can never accept that. That is why we are grateful to you. That is why we are proud of our Government, the President of the Council, our Ministers. We are proud of the policy we have pursued in addressing the dramatic international issues, the complicated implications and economic and social consequences. Well the actions we are taking: we need to put a roof at the cost of gas, we need to stop the growth of the cost of hydrocarbons, we need to stop the growth of the cost of energy. The dear energy affects everyone, it affects families, citizens, small businesses, tourism and large industry. We must continue, Mr President, to defend the purchasing power of our salaries and pensions. We must continue to support the competitiveness of our economic and productive system and we must do so with the action you are taking with the European and world institutions, seeking new suppliers, but also trying to have a common policy based on mutual solidarity and the necessary help that countries must give to other countries, particularly in the European Community. Above all, Mr President, we must continue to defend liberal democracies, Europe and its institutions, Europe and its history and culture. We must continue to defend the Ukrainian people with all the useful and possible instruments. We are on the right side, Mr President, and Parliament will have a great responsibility today and tomorrow. Your report has been clear, profound and understandable to everyone, in the method, approach and objectives: we support Ukraine simply because it is the right thing to do, it is our duty and also our interest. We send weapons, like many NATO countries, simply because Ukraine, if we had not done so, would probably no longer exist today. This we could not forgive in history and in relation to our children. [[Applause]] We must be determined, we must be stubborn to seek peace. Your journey by train, Mr President, cannot stop. Your journey by train, not the physical one but the political one, must continue. We have a duty to reopen the dialogue and you, Mr President, are the man who has the right moral stature, the necessary authority and the real conviction to do so. We will be at your side and beside our government. On this point we are motivated as a Democratic Party, we believe in what we are doing, we believe in its Government, we are with Ukrainians, we are with Italians, we are with European citizens, we are for rights and for international law. The effort has been enormous and will continue to be enormous. The country is aware of this, but this is the only way we can and must pursue. I believe that the majority political forces have given vision to the whole country - alas - of what are the difficulties of democracy. However, Mr President, this is understandable. We are talking, we are talking, we are talking, we are looking for agreements and we are trying to unite different points of view. This is exactly what happened in these hours, because there were doubts, which we believe were wrong doubts. I am delighted and proud to have signed a resolution which has escaped these doubts and which gives full mandate to you and your Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to represent us in an appropriate and authoritative manner, in order to achieve peace alongside the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u78	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u79	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic before and the war today led to a totally unimaginable scenario until two years ago. The conflict in Ukraine has redesigned geopolitical borders, not to mention the repercussions on the global economy. In the face of such a upheaval in the political and economic order, it is not conceivable that Europe can continue on the path it has drawn before the Russian invasion began. At least it seems to be a blunder to think that today the priority is the energy transition. Mr President, don't get me wrong: the fight against climate change cannot see us back and we are firmly convinced that it must go ahead. At the same time, however, it must be noted that the situation has changed and that there are new emergencies to be addressed and new requirements for the protection of our economies. Europe must protect our companies and our workers, who must continue to be our priority, a priority for the Government, Mr President. In recent days, the European Parliament has voted to stop diesel and petrol cars since 2035. Forza Italia asks you, President, to work now to avert a choice that threatens thousands and thousands of jobs. [[Applause]] and which threatens to create a new strategic dependence of the European Union, that of electric batteries, on a country, China, which is currently the greatest danger for our liberal democracies. Liberal Democracies that we in Forza Italia defend and defend with our nails and teeth, because you see, President, unlike those who suddenly discovered themselves champion of Atlanticism, our location has never been in doubt. We liberals and populars stood on Hungary's side when Soviet tanks entered Budapest and the leftist political fathers applauded the invasion by the columns of the daily "Unity." Our militants do not burn and have never burned American and Israeli flags in the square. The rubles of the Soviet regime have never arrived in our coffers. Freeing ourselves from Russian gas is fundamental, we agree with the diversification of sources of supply, it is sacrosanct to work for the energy transition and to make our country independent from third countries. We have already spoken in favour of nuclear power in unsuspecting times. History has proved us right, but it is clear that by now war and the dear bills require us to travel faster. At the same time, however, strong in our identity, we call for this freeing to take place taking into account the need to ensure social cohesion, which cannot be compromised in any way. Businesses and jobs must be protected, no matter what. As a Sicilian, moreover, I cannot help but think of the few but precious industrial realities that we have in Sicily, such as the refinery of Priolo, which the Minister knows well, the largest refinery in Italy: 8,000 employees are in the balance, because it is at risk closure due to the embargo on Russian crude oil. To these 8,000 workers, and not just to them, we owe answers, President. In the coming days, the European Council will discuss the need to set a limit on the indiscriminate rise in the price of gas. It was originally a proposal from Forza Italia, which we claim. At first it seemed impossible, but now it will be discussed in concrete terms. We're satisfied. It is also necessary in the resolution which we shall be voting on shortly. The European Council will also discuss Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Like you, Mr President, Forza Italia is in favour of enlargement of the Union to all those countries which have requested it and which share our values and principles. A larger Europe will be stronger and will have even more say on the tables that matter. Today Kiev represents the West: the confrontation that is taking place is not only that between Russia and Ukraine, but also that between dictatorships and liberal democracies. The Council will also take stock of the Conference on the future of Europe and we hope that it will finally be the driving force behind a new period of institutional reforms, including at European level. It is necessary to make use of the work done in these months, in which I myself have participated, and which has focused some essential steps. Reform of the Treaties is a viable path and we are aware of how complicated it is, because it requires the unanimity of the Member States, but we continue to work for it. It is undeniable that we need a more modern, faster and efficient Europe. Europe has changed, it is no longer the founding fathers of the Union, and we cannot fail to take this into account. We cannot ignore the fact that, as it happens all too often, there appears to be an institution cast and out of time, in a world that changes too quickly, where the emergencies to which to give the necessary answers are now on the agenda. What has yet to happen to understand that Europe is federal or not? One could also imagine a two-speed Europe, to overcome the resistance of countries that would like to keep their sovereignty intact. Europe does not have an army, Europe does not have a constitution, Europe is not a state. The Ukrainian conflict will lead to a world divided between two great powers: China and the United States of America. We cannot be crushed by this bipolarism. Finally, there is no point in denying in this House that the war in Ukraine has been the most complex, controversial and sensitive point in the resolution we are about to vote on, which we have been working on for days in the Commission. Forza Italia believes it is right that the Government should involve the Parliament, which represents the citizens, on issues relating to the war, but it is also necessary that the Government plays its role in international summits having the credibility and the contractual weight that are due to it [[Applause]] , with the freedom to mediate the most reasonable solutions, to arrive at the ceasefire as soon as possible and the best diplomatic solution between the parties to the conflict. In this, Mr President-in-Office, Forza Italia is with you and the Government. [[Applause]] I shall conclude by recalling the latest report by the World Bank, which warns us that prices of food, oil, metals and other basic products will remain at high levels at least until the end of 2024, with an increase of more than 50% in energy prices. Food prices will only rise by 23% this year. Inflation is almost 8%, as you said earlier, Mr Draghi, and Italian growth is at the limit of recession. Forza Italia is in favour of the majority resolution and invites it to complete the work begun and carried out so far, with competence and foresight. However, very critical months are approaching, which we must be able to face, offering certainties to our citizens. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that the Italians will continue to be your priority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u80	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u81	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, distinguished Ministers and Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that democracy and freedom are at stake in this conflict, as the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Paolo Gentiloni, has reminded us very well. However, we must also be careful to ensure that this freedom, which is put in danger from the outside, is also defended inside, because unfortunately, too often, it happens that it is enough to deviate from a minimum, very little, from the dominant thought, from the mainstream and politically correct, to be immediately accused of complicity with the enemy, ambiguity and being bearers of hatred and anything else. As if it were forbidden to advance a but, to pose a doubt, to try to reason, to seek the so-called right means, that has made over the centuries a bit the history of our country, of our culture. Why do I say that? Because we have seen it in recent years, it happens a little across the West, Mr President; when it comes to certain issues, from gender policies to immigration, to Covid, and also on the subject of war, woe to deviate from what is the dominant thought. It is enough to say and to say that we must dialogue with Russia, not in order to make its interest, but in a functional way to open negotiations - which must obviously be between two parties and must also include Russia - in order to be immediately accused of pointillism rather than anti-Europeanism and so on. Now, thankfully, since both Macron and Scholz have said that we need to talk to Putin, at least we have knocked down this politically correct wall. [[Applause]] and we understand - we know this - that it is not so much what is said in the substance, but who says it and especially how it says it. I quote another example, namely a statement by the Secretary of the Democratic Party Enrico Letta, who, a few days ago, let go of a thought that I personally absolutely share: better an imperfect peace than war. It is almost had to run to the shelter not to deny but at least to correct that it was just a quote and that there is no change of line. This kind of attitude says a lot about what are the real possibilities of being free to express, in a Parliament and in the country, what are legitimate opinions. [[Applause]] You can be absolutely convinced of Europeans, Atlanticists and consider the most powerful weapon of diplomacy [[Applause]] Since I mentioned the speech of the most powerful weapon, there is no doubt that if we had not provided military aid and support to Ukraine, especially in the first part of the conflict, it would have been difficult to bring Russia to the negotiating table because it would have won the war in two weeks and probably decided to invade some other country as well. So it is absolutely true and important what has been done, and it has been voted in a resolution. It is also true that, in view of the fact that this is a conflict of some depth, which risks - I say this by quoting a journalist - uncontrollable waves, it would be just as good for this military support to continue in the context of the legitimate defence of the Ukrainian people, just as we voted in the resolution of 1 March, being careful that self-defense does not in turn become aggression. That's what we're asking for. Are we saying something scandalous? No, in our opinion we are simply saying what most people call common sense, what we are talking about when we also want to discuss these issues without necessarily being geopolitical experts. In the same way, it is equally true - this certainly - that we must not divide the West. It is clear that the West must not be divided, especially at the level of public opinion; we would play the game of the enemy Putin; I repeat, there is no doubt about this. Of course it is all true, however, in order to avoid playing the game of our enemy, there remain essentially two open paths to follow, which you, Mr Draghi, together with the other Heads of State, will have to discuss in the European Council. The first is that the international community - the European Union, NATO, all possible states that can stand in the way of trying to resolve the conflict - separate aggressor and attacker and both commit themselves to a negotiated peace, immediate with a ceasefire. This is the path we prefer and which we expect, but if it is not possible and should instead continue, according to NATO alarms, an extension of the war, because someone claims that Putin will lose and that Ukraine's victory will certainly not go through a ceasefire, if the war really lasts for a long time, then the European Union and all the institutions should start to think that we must intervene very seriously to support our economic fabric made by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[Applause.]] All this to protect the purchasing power of workers and pensioners, given the increase in inflation, to compensate for the imbalances resulting from the sanctions applied to Russia, which certainly hurt Russia, as the President-in-Office of the Council says, but also to us, let us not forget that. We must face the food crisis, something that the President of the Council himself has highlighted. At this moment, then, there are emergencies on which we must intervene quickly: we must declare the state of calamity, for the obvious drought that is hitting our country and not only. [[Applause]] We need to act quickly to ensure an energy independence as soon as possible, not dependent on others: 750 wells are still and must be reactivated immediately, regardless of the parties of the no, which unfortunately in this country have caused the ruin on many sectors and on many fronts. We need to stop migratory flows and on this point it is only the Government you chaired, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that shines particularly: there is a 30% increase, even in the light of the risks associated with the food crisis. Speculation must be stopped and in this respect the idea that you have launched on the price cap, then on the roof at the price of gas, but not only on that. All this, however, must be done quickly, because we cannot allow workers to begin to lose their jobs, that our manufacturing industry begins to close its doors, that our economy faces degradation and a complete dbcle, because in the face of a social and economic degradation there would be disturbances that would lead public opinion, not only of Italy but of the whole of Europe and of the whole of the West, to divide and in that case we would play the game of our enemy Putin. [[Applause]] Europe therefore knows that if war lasts for a long time, because this is the road that must inevitably be taken if there are no other solutions, it must intervene and when one is in a war economy, as President Macron has explicitly stated, there are two roads: or taxes are being increased, but we do not want to go this way and the President of the Council said that it would never increase them, or public debt is being increased, but Europe does not seem to have understood much, seeing the latest recommendations from the European Commission. We must move in this direction. We understand that in the end the decisions are taken by you Heads of State and Government, with the relevant Ministers, in the European Council, then there will be the G7 Summit in Bavaria and the NATO Summit in Madrid. It is you who make the decisions, indeed often - let me say this, I do not only do it on a controversial issue - it does not seem that Parliament gives the direction to the Government, but in some cases it seems that the Government gives the direction to Parliament and unfortunately this happens not only in Italy, but also in other European countries. [[Applause]] Since you decide, this time we tell you to hurry! I do not know if he remembers it: hurry, because there is not only the risk that peace is seriously drifting away, but also that soon the air conditioners will not work either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u82	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the position of the 5 Star Movement on the conflict in Ukraine and everything related to it has long been clear, has never changed and has been enshrined in our official acts that anyone can consult. Both in the national council of 16 and 17 May and in the one held in the past hours we have basically stated some cornerstones, which I will quickly list. One: firm condemnation of the Russian military aggression against the Ukrainian population and the civilian and military infrastructure, because it is contrary to the most basic principles of international law and because it cannot be justified in any way; attacks that may constitute war crimes. Two: the need to maintain a strong sanctions plan to dissuade Russia from continuing its invasion plan; if necessary, to increase its level, with even stricter measures and, at the same time, to provide humanitarian aid to alleviate the suffering of the Ukrainian civilian population. Three: absolute necessity for Italy to be the interpreter, indeed protagonist, of a new phase of diplomatic efforts in all international fora, in order to avoid the risk of a military escalation, and instead to be promoted, with all possible determination, serious and credible diplomatic actions to prevent the conflict from spreading further. Four: our country, after having already sent various supplies, including weapons, in order to allow Ukraine to exercise its right of defence, pursuant to Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, must now concentrate its efforts on a diplomatic level, in particular promoting synergistic action, also with other European countries, in order to achieve a balanced, just and sustainable solution. Five: in view of the situation so worrying, a comparison between the various political forces is desirable in Parliament, in order to define an act of direction of the Chambers that contributes to strengthening the political action of the Government in all international contexts; this action is aimed at the pursuit of the ceasefire and peace. Finally, the last point: we did not consider it sufficient, on the basis of the principles of our democratic order, to confine ourselves to the parliamentary scrutiny that had been carried out during the so-called Ukraine decree, which dates back to the days immediately following the military attack and which, inevitably, cannot take into account the changes that have taken place in the meantime. These were and are still our clear and clear positions. Unfortunately, we have had to take note that all the concerns we have expressed in recent months, with regard to the economic difficulties of families and businesses, have been fully confirmed. The serious situation that is emerging, between expensive bills, inflationary bubble, the cost of money in significant increase for families and businesses and greater onerosity for the Italian State to finance itself on the international markets, is destined to aggravate the general condition of the country and requires extensive and organic interventions by the Government. We would like to discuss these matters as urgently as possible. Action must be taken soon to ensure a minimum wage for the large number of workers who have such low wages that they and their families do not have a dignified life. More generally, we must put in place a wage policy that can guarantee greater payroll to citizens, even those of the so-called middle class, since we are the only country in the European Union where real wages have decreased over the last thirty years, unlike other countries, where they have increased. President Draghi, the general economic situation is unfortunately critical. There is a need for substantial investment in ecological and digital transitions, which the European Commission estimates to be 350-400 billion a year. Well, all this can only be pursued by using expansive economic policies, both at European and national level. No one in this House identifies deficit or debt as objectives in itself: there would be no more. They are, however, instruments of economic policy that must be activated if they are to support demand and protect the social, economic and productive fabric. This was taught, with simplicity and crystal clear clarity, by an economist whom you, President Draghi, surely know and whose name was Federico Caff. If we look at the recent past, we see that the sacrosanct expansive policies of the Conte II Government have, at the beginning, increased the level of public debt, but at the same time triggered a record growth of GDP in 2021, which is already causing the debt itself to decline rapidly. Among other things, I would like to mention what his Minister Franco said at the Davos World Economic Forum, when he reported that in the forecast for GDP growth of 3% in 2023 there is a drag effect of 2.2%. It is therefore thanks to the expansive policies of the Count II Government that the country stands today. These are the numbers you report yourself. It would now be unforgivable to yield to the mermaids of austerity of the elites who are making themselves widely felt and bow to inflation brandished as a weapon. We can no longer return to political tears and blood; these paradigms of the past must definitely be archived. On the superbonus I do not intend to use twists of words. President Draghi, you and your Minister Franco have made a serious mistake by blocking on every possible and imaginable pretext the innovative mechanism of the transfer of tax credits. This blockade is wrong and unfair and it is putting thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of jobs on the brink. It is clear that you do not like this mechanism - we note this - but we assure you that the Movimento 5 Stars is willing to use all its forces to recover a true cedibility of the tax credits, overcoming all the useless and harmful blockades that this Government has imposed. Says Keynes that it's hard not to embrace new ideas, but to get rid of the old ones. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u84	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Crucioli and other senators, No 2, Senator Fattori, No 3, Senator Paragone and other senators, No 4, Senator Ciriani and other senators, and No 5, Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Marcucci, Ginetti, Bonino, Masini, Unterberger and De Petris. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than answering individual points, I will comment on what I think is the unifying reason for all the speeches. I must thank the Senate for its support to help Ukraine defend freedom and democracy, to continue with the sanctions against the invading country, to support the purchasing power of Italians, to prepare with all others the reconstruction of Ukraine, to support Ukraine's candidate state for the European Union, to seek a lasting peace that respects the rights, will and freedom of Ukraine, to try to do everything to avoid the tragedy of the food crisis in the poorest countries of the world, to continue - in short - on the road drawn by Decree-Law No. 14 of 25 February 2022. I thank you because support has been united and unity, as many of you have observed, is essential, especially at these times. Finally, I would like to thank you for another reason, almost personal. In these moments, when the country is - even indirectly - involved in a war, the decisions that must be made are very complex and profound and have moral implications. Therefore, having the Senate's support in making these decisions is very, very important to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u86	I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u87	Mr President, I am against the motion for a resolution. 1, 2, 3 and 4. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u88	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u91	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Latvia, which has fewer inhabitants in Milan, has sent more military aid to Ukraine than Italy and other countries have done much more and better than we have. I doubt that if Italy fails to make its modest military contribution, it will be able to sit around a Russian and Ukrainian table; an attempt that has already been made by all European countries without success and that has not even succeeded on wheat. Therefore, to say that in Parliament there are forces working for peace while others only have in mind war is the usual joke of populists. Link Romeo, we are also for diplomacy, it is not just you who have common sense. This whole discussion is simply harmful, it weakens us in the eyes of our partners and it is the development that Putin tries to feed. He knows the psychological effect of images of death and devastation in countries that support Ukraine and wants to transform the greatest value of liberal democracies, that is, respect for every human life, into its main weakness. In addition, war is increasing inflation by testing the economy and putting pressure on governments that depend on Russian energy. The initial enthusiasm for Ukrainian patriotism is falling, and so more and more often we hear that it would be better to end the war in order to put an end to the suffering, not to pay the profit. But what they speak of is not peace: it is called surrender or capitulation; it is called victory of prevarication. If anything, the opposite is true: only strong military resistance can force Putin to the negotiating table and prevent other countries from becoming victims of his insane imperialist design. President Draghi, the fate of Ukraine is at stake at this week's European Council. It will decide, for the first time in European history, to grant candidate status to a country in full war. We hope for a firm choice from all sides. This tortured country needs a symbol to believe in its own future, and we should be proud that it found it in the flag of the Union. For all these reasons, the Group Per le Autonomie strongly supports the line of its Government. We still have in our eyes the image that brought her with Scholz and Macron to Kiev and we know what she represented and continues to represent on the support not only military to the victims of this aggression. We know and appreciate the effort for a common gas policy to keep track of sanctions. All this because you have a clear stake: not the polls, not the upcoming elections, but the defence of European values and civilization. Today Italy is perhaps the country where the greatest sympathy for Putin is concentrated and in which the sending of weapons questions a part of the public opinion. Yet, those who try to wear the peace shirt after professing for a life that was to be armed even the petrol stations and pharmacists do not get consent. That's not just what polls say, but also the vote nine days ago. The country appreciates the consistency between words and actions, the idea that a government acts on the basis of beliefs and not conveniences. Go on then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we self-employed are with you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u94	(CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). President Draghi, I'll start where you're finished. Unfortunately, I have to write down for the umpteenth time a semantic wrongdoing: much of the Senate is with you, President, but me and my Group and most of the Italian people we represent are not. [[Applause]] We are not with you, with your warlike policies, with these NATO and EU logics that want an Italy crushed as a colony at the corner of international realities. You, Mr President, have distinguished yourself in these years, as in your long career, so as not to have any political sensitivity. He must forgive me for the a little direct ways, but the only thing I recognize from the point of view of his action is to be a great chef, a man who satisfies appetites, the worst, even if refined. [[Applause]] He always has.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u95	You moderate the terms, please, it doesn't seem to me that your language is adequate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u96	[[Comments]] (CAL-Alt-PC-IDV). I don't think I was offensive. The chef's is a decent job. Let me talk. Please, Mr President, I do not mean to offend anyone, but I intend to elaborate a thought, believe me. The appetites to be satisfied, President Draghi, are not the popular ones of our carbonare and our amateurs, but they are high appetites, banquets where the dishes have a high cost, which we paid during the pandemic, when all the attention has been put on the distribution of money to the large pharmaceutical companies and to the big suppliers of masks and the like. But then of course you focused on what you came to govern us for: the management of the large serving plate, the PNRR, so much money that should have a relapse on the people, on the social groups already folded by two years of crisis and that instead will naturally determine the enrichment of the usual known, with which you are perfectly capable of interloquire. [[Applause]] With the war, however, President, we have crossed the line: there has never been a debate on anything, immediately flattened on NATO positions against the opinion of the people, against the opinion of the Pope, against the opinion of the majority of the peoples of the earth to make a war not ours, even if it is near. [[Applause]] Wars are either ours all or none are. To me it escaped, President - I apologize for my mental simplicity - the reason for this haste to engulf the great military companies of the world, the first five - let's remember - Americans, the twelfth - let's remember - Italian, Leonardo. Then I began to observe and I saw your frequent visits to one of the countries of the conflict, Ukraine, especially that of von der Leyen, but in the end the visit that most enlightened the landscape was that of yesterday, the president of the Italian Confindustria Bonomi, who went to ensure support for the reconstruction. President, if I ever had any doubts about what the purpose of all your actions was, this visit took them all away from me: there is only money in your eyes. [[Applause]] If you were a modern, tattooed guy, you'd probably have Uncle Scrooge's drawing on one side and the dollar deposit on the other. [[Applause]] We are providing weapons to the Ukrainian people to destroy themselves and its territory, the Russians of course do the rest of the work. The next day you will be there, you and your Confindustria, all ready for reconstruction, to finish the tour of that huge banquet of which you were the grand committee. [[Applause. Comments]] This, President, is of course done in absolute tranquility, because you know that you have the support of the establishment, of the media, of the mainstream, and above all to succeed in tacitating that very little dissent that has been created in the country, which has manifested itself also plastically in the ideas and works of some free thinkers, of some parliamentarians. We have here our Vito Petrocelli, who several times explained his position. However, I would like to know why you have never said a word on the fact that you have indicated and promoted an action of shameful dossiering against Italian citizens on whom there is no rag of proof that they are online, have been paid or have acted against their own people. [[Applause]] , also leaving his Undersecretary and his President of the Copasir climbing on mirrors to justify a shameful work of mystification of reality that continues and will continue. [[Applause]] In fact, there were other small things, less known to the masses. For example, there was an amendment in the law that reform the MSC which strangely forbids the 16 members to apply if they did not resign two years earlier. The elections will be in a year and that amendment is tailor-made to prevent the magistrate Nino Di Matteo from attending the next elections and can contribute to the change towards honesty and the fight against the mafia in our country. [[Applause]] President, the opera was finished by your waiters, so let's call them, since we were talking about cooking. [[Applause]] Yesterday in the House an amendment to the so-called election decree was put to the vote which miraculously, as sewn, will avoid my friend Pharaoh, our friend Renzi, Richetti, Calenda, Bonino, all micro majority parties to collect signatures in 2023, except to us. [[Applause]] We will gladly collect them. We would have liked, since the law is the same for everyone, to be under the banquets together with Renzi, Pharaoh, Calenda and Richetti. It would have been fun, a way to confront yourself in the country. President, we are isolated: open the map, look at it. There are the United States and we want to be friends with the American people and the European people, but we also want to be friends with the Russian people, the Chinese people, the Vietnamese people, the Cuban people and the Palestinian people, who have never been considered like the Ukrainian people, attacked, killed and massacred for twenty years. [[Applause]] When you, President, act for all the other countries attacked in the world as you have done for Ukraine today, you will have our respect; until then, never. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u99	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr Draghi, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we all feel a strong need for the war to end, in order to put an end to the atrocities in Ukraine and to prevent the serious consequences that are resulting from it. It is a source of pride that it is our country that has been the creator of many political proposals carried out by Europe at this difficult stage. Italy is there, it is the engine of political initiative, it proposes solutions, weave alliances, it collects recognitions and respect. It was seen plastically in the photograph a few days ago. The image that depicts it on the train with Macron and Scholz, Mr President, is a powerful symbol: it speaks to us of Europe as a force of peace, in total harmony with the Atlantic Alliance, but capable of its own strategic autonomy, in an attempt to reach a ceasefire as soon as possible. Italy and Europe are not feeding a war of aggression, we are helping a people to defend themselves and the weapons we are providing and which we will eventually provide are not aimed at an attack, but used to allow the self-defense, the heroic defense of an entire people. Here we Italians, who know the value of freedom regained thanks to resistance, cannot deny help to those who fight to defend themselves, without ever neglecting the diplomatic way, in the constant search for dialogue and peace. This is precisely what we have done in recent months, within and alongside Europe, with which we have succeeded in approving important and united measures: the reception throughout Europe of more than 6 million Ukrainian refugees, including their educational and work integration; the allocation of ad hoc resources to deal with the emergency in Ukraine itself; the provision of six packages of sanctions against Russia with measures capable of putting on their knees nerve points of the Russian Federation. They are all decisions strongly desired by Italy and often proposed by us. By the way, we are the only country in Europe to have drafted a draft agreement for a peace plan. That is why it is not a question of reinforcing the conflict by sending weapons, but of supporting the resistance of a people who are trying to defend themselves. The generation of our grandparents has also suffered the horror of war, so we know what it means and we feel obliged to defend those who are the victims of war today. Italy, like Europe, works for stability; it is no coincidence that we were the first country to express our support for Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia's application for membership of the European Union, because we are convinced that Europe is the home of those who believe in democracy and rights. The appropriate acceptance of their candidacy must now speed up the process of accession of the Western Balkans, which has been waiting for too many years. I mean, there's a lot of challenges ahead of us. We are dealing, for example, with a surge in oil and gas costs, which must push us to set a price cap at European level, diversify energy supply and develop the production of renewable and clean sources. It is also necessary to insist on another sensitive issue that you raised, Mr President: the release of cereals exports from Ukraine, in an attempt to prevent a food crisis that would have been dramatic, especially in Africa. In short, we are in a situation of having to take demanding decisions that make it all the more urgent to envisage major reforms in Europe's structures and rules. Here again, on the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact, you, Mr President, in your proposal for a European Debt Agency, have made concrete and very promising proposals. In conclusion, Mr President, we are faced with historical passages, which only a visionary policy can bring about. That is why we are proud that you, President Draghi, are interpreting this policy on behalf of Italy in Brussels. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u102	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, President Draghi, colleagues, finally the Government, after weeks of waiting, referrals and solicitations, also on our part, reports to Parliament and the Senate on crucial and vital issues for our country, for our economy, for our security and also for the international prestige of Italy. It should do so by virtue of a strong, clear and united mandate, but it is clear that it is not and will not be so. We have read the resolution of the majority, which has arrived precisely in the last few minutes: it seems to us the usual'mind', fragile fragile, made to please everyone and not displease anyone. I will also give you another impression that I had, Mr President: in the twenty minutes of your report, I felt more concerned not to say than to say, to fade, to avoid and not to displease anyone. I understand that, because its majority is really difficult to hold together: it is an absolutely chaotic majority. The problem, however, and the question that we ask ourselves on behalf of the Italians is: what is the foreign policy of the Italian Government? Is there only one party, or are there so many parties that support it? We have also seen, like all Italians, the television images of his trip to Kiev and compared to this arise at least two considerations. The first is that the journey that you have made with the leaders of France and Germany takes place three months behind the similar one that the conservative leaders of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and England have made, almost as if they wanted to send a message to Ukraine: let's see what happens and then we put our feet on the land of Ukraine. That wasn't a good message, in our opinion. The second question, Mr President, is that, as the images of you and the other European leaders visiting Kiev and the suburbs of the capital, the places of horror, flowed on televisions in the homes of the Italians, your majority continued to fly the rags, as it has been for weeks and as it has happened up to a few minutes before you entered this Chamber. I have here with me only a small part of the dozens of articles, speeches and interviews that pieces of the majority have released against other parts of the majority or that pieces of the majority have released against the Government. It really is not a great spectacle, in which he distinguished himself - alas - a former President of the Council, on which I do not want to extend myself, because I do not have time and because I do not want to inflame, for the sake of Fatherland. Something else has happened. His Minister for Foreign Affairs was put on trial and distrusted by his own party, which is the first party in his majority; this was because the Minister for Foreign Affairs shared the foreign policy of the President of the Council. No one here, but above all outside this House and outside the national borders, among those who look at us, may not consider what happened extremely serious for the reputation of our country. I want to say to you, President, as a convinced opponent of your Government, that Italy does not deserve a foreign policy made up of cleverness, ambiguity and divisions, especially at a time when there is a war 700 kilometers from the border of Trieste. It is foreign policy - you teach me this, Mr President - which qualifies and defines a government, especially in the eyes of international chancellors. However, its majority is also arguing about foreign policy. Indeed, I would like to say that it is mainly arguing about foreign policy. You can't, you can't listen to people say: We are with NATO, but we are against arms; we are absolutely pro-Atlantic, but we are against military spending; we are at the side of the Ukrainian people, but against sanctions; we are at the side of the heroic Ukrainian people, but we do not recognize the Ukrainian people's right to defend themselves, their freedom, their cities. President, all people of common sense, all people who have a shred of humanity, can only hope and work for peace or at least for a ceasefire. But you and your colleagues will forgive me, because I don't want to seem pedantic or pompous: five hundred years ago in Italy, in Florence, a gentleman named Niccol Machiavelli wrote definitive things about how men are doing and how the world is going, because then in the end politics moves with realism and pragmatism. The first rule is that unarmed solidarity with an assaulted people is only rhetoric. [[Applause]] , that the unarmed diplomacy offered to an attacked people is useless and ruinous and that the search for peace for peace, that is, the pacifism of which many fill their mouths, is only another name that we give to unconditional surrender. President and colleagues, on 7 April, you explained the DEF that the Italians were called to choose between peace and air conditioners. Unfortunately, we must note that we do not have peace and we have no guarantee of the functioning of the air conditioners either. [[Applause]] We have proposed a resolution which seemed to us of absolute common sense: a maximum price for gas, a European solidarity fund for the countries most affected by the crisis, an international fund to avoid famine in North Africa. You have said no, and it is surprising, as is the obstinacy, President, with which its majority continues to reject our amendments, which call for the use of Italian gas fields in the Adriatic Sea, which are not used or underused, while our neighbours naturally do not waste time. [[Applause]] I must conclude, because I only have eight minutes at my disposal: we of the Brothers of Italy Group are not and will not be, from now on for more reasons, the crutch of the Government. Once again, we are proud of the courage in this House to have been the only force of opposition, but we are well aware of the duties and responsibilities that derive from our European and international position. Above all, our leader, Giorgia Meloni, who is also the leader of European conservatives, knows this. [[Applause]] This is the strength on which we have built our consent, which is so annoying, especially to professional haters who stand on the left. Mr President, we have said this from day one: we are the ones who do what they say; we are doing it only in the name and in the interest of Italy and we will do it today, without asking for anything in return; as far as we are concerned, that is all that matters. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u105	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are faced with an extremely complex situation, which only a few months ago we would not even have imagined. It is almost a perfect storm, with the conflict following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, with an energy crisis that began with speculation even before the conflict, with a water crisis, which we have not talked about today - but it is another issue that we will have to understand how to deal with quickly - and with an economic situation that clearly creates apprehension and concern in Italian citizens: we saw last week as we "dance" and maybe we will continue to "dance" for the affair of the spread. Mr President, I want to say this because there is live television and perhaps Italian citizens want to hear from us and from our debate what are the objectives and tools we can put in place to deal with this set of problems, which - I repeat - are concomitant. The water crisis and the energy crisis - I say this not because they are fixed - must bring back to the centre of our debate climate change, which because of the emergency of the war conflict not only have been relegated to the background, but there is also someone who tries to strongly reduce the objectives and recipes that we have given ourselves in Europe. This means that the debate in the parliamentary classrooms cannot be just a rite, which we must do out of legal obligation, because, as you know, Mr President, the law obliges us to come to Parliament before we go to the European Council and then vote on a resolution. I therefore believe that there is a need for a much stronger involvement of Parliament and also for us to assume responsibility, in such a complex and difficult situation, as we actually do. This Senate - of course I speak for the Senate, but I believe that the House is equally committed - constantly and continuously works on the decree-laws and on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to meet the deadlines, to ensure that the opportunities that we have put in place can be realized. In this assumption of responsibility, the indications resulting from Parliament's involvement must be seen as aid, support for government action, because this gives strength to the Commission itself. To do what? We come to the question of conflict. The first point in the majority resolution indicates a very clear path, which is absolutely not rhetorical, because I think it is the action that most parliamentarians and political forces recognize as strategic and fundamental. Mr President, we absolutely must not think of moving forward with a form of resignation to the idea that we are going towards a sort of permanent war, a war with ups and downs. I heard the Secretary of NATO predicting the conflict of two to three years. That is why we cannot resign ourselves to this, and not in the name of a pacifism of embezzlement, but simply because we must put all the multilateral negotiating initiatives and actions in place - well the journey, well the strengthening of the axis with the other European countries; we had already talked about it last time, if Europe is not able as such - to try to pave the way for all the ways to open the negotiations, because we must get to the ceasefire. Mr President, I understand that you say that there are certain conditions for peace. Peace will have to be achieved when the parties, assisted by the multilateral initiative that we too must continue to pursue, have succeeded in achieving the result of opening negotiations. It is a common interest: of our country, as of Europe, and it is even more so when there is recognition of the status of candidate for Ukraine, and on that this House fully agrees. It's our interest. We must act to stop the conflict and to ensure that - in my view, in practice - violence, killing and bombardment cease and, above all, we return to a path of dialogue. Only diplomacy can allow us this; there is no other way. With regard to the energy crisis, I understand that we can have had satisfaction - it has already been a result - with regard to the price cap that has been inserted, but we cannot address the issue of the continuous and constant increase in energy only and only thinking that we can have a small result with regard to the roof. I also say that it is a crucial objective for us and if we do not succeed we must perhaps find a way to act on our own, as other countries have done. The same question is about decoupling. The resolution indicates the way to the Repower EU; very well, but I still insist: we do not use the history of the energy crisis to go back to the past. We do not have much else: we cannot afford Italy to go back, nor to question the objectives of reducing emissions, as well as those related to renewables. Please: the effort must be made totally and essentially on this. We do not use this to say that the energy transition must be reviewed, because we are hurting ourselves. Let's put it this way: this crisis can also be the opportunity because we finally start to run, run, run. We have no other way but this, so let us give an answer: from this point of view, it also means starting to put pillars that will enable us to overcome a dramatic situation. Not to go back is also about the issue of the water crisis. We must give answers to citizens, because inflation will have increased in one or two months and our country with the lowest wages. We must address this issue once and for all and resolve it. As for the recovery of our country, we do not do as in the past, when we thought we were focusing on low wages instead of innovation; this is also an opportunity to really make a qualitative leap. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are many issues to be addressed and they are all very articulated and interwoven. The motion for a resolution points to a number of points. It has been a complicated and tiring task, but in announcing our vote in favour, we are convinced that at least the road we set out for the European Council may bring some positive results. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u108	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mr Amendola, Mr Stefano and Mr D'Inc, for we have spent so many hours together, trying to bring home a text that does not make anyone feel excluded: I would like to stress here the seriousness, professionalism and attention with which you have all worked together with us. Mr President, I would like to remind you very quickly that tomorrow many of our students will begin the state exam, the exam of maturity, and I wonder if in a few years' time the students of the future will perhaps be called to face in one of their writings or in the oral interview also the commentary on one of the most powerful images that appeared during these days during his trip to Kiev. I think that the image of you, together with President Macron, Chancellor Scholz and President Zelensky, has been truly powerful: the image of who is a political Europe and goes to a country that is Europe, but from a geographical point of view, to show that Europe can be part of the political context. This was a very strong signal and not simply a symbolic one, but it was a symbol of a real will to build a different Europe. We can only be proud to say that Italy is at the forefront of wanting to make sure that there is an opportunity for Ukraine and Moldova, for example, to really have the status of candidates, because this is a path that sees us at the forefront to defend that idea of Europe that we have in mind. We defend the idea of a Europe of peoples and solidarity, which cannot accept in any way the aggression that Putin has carried out; the Europe that needs to see the forces convinced and united among themselves, without any small gap, no transfer, so that we can really achieve, through this strength and cohesion, the path of peace. We have great appointments ahead of Thursday and Friday, such as the G7 and the NATO summit. These are three appointments that must see us all united, precisely in order to give continuity and further solidity to the role that the Government is playing and that has really found its strength in the credibility of the European and Atlantic line firmly held by our country. We must continue to be the backbone of this line, because we can be its main players, not only in the definition of a diplomatic solution to the conflict, but also in the construction of this new political Europe and a new European security architecture. You, Mr Draghi, have outlined a very clear political line, which we share without hesitation and which is reflected in the firm response to Putin's aggression and the drive to build a negotiating path that leads to peace. It must be clear to all of us that Russia is aiming and will continue to aim to undermine our cohesion, to feed and exploit any political division, to prevent genuine European integration. And that is why the strong action, which you have mentioned here, of the Senate and of the mandate that is given to the Government has a more important meaning, because it is a real response that also goes in the direction of peace. We want peace, we will never stop pointing that out. To get there, we need Russia not to continue its imperialist aggression and to find an acceptable agreement for Kiev, a peace in conditions of full dignity. What Putin fears, we have said here several times in this House, is the freedom of Europe. It is a strong European Union, its true obsession; it is our model of free and democratic society that is its assailant. We are proud of the work this government is doing. We are proud of the work he is also doing to be close to Italian families and businesses, to take the hand of those who are in great difficulty today. All those measures that this Government is going to take, even at a speed that sometimes puts Parliament at a very tight time, are necessary, however, precisely because we want to talk to the citizens. We have repeatedly said, as political forces, what are the proposals to help our fellow citizens try to breathe and feel better. The Democratic Party has made a number of proposals and we are also very pleased that the Government has accepted them. The other branch of Parliament is working on the aid decree, which contains further concrete measures to defend the purchasing power of wages, to protect families from expensive bills and to defend companies in difficulty. You mentioned the Conference on the future of Europe earlier. We bet on it and we believed in it a lot. We know that perhaps we did not have the participation we would have hoped for, but that conference on the future of Europe represents a further opportunity, to really turn to the youngest people, to make them protagonists of the Europe that we would like to give them. It is also the Europe of sustainability. You are doing a great deal of work, including in relation to energy policies. We know very well what this Government is doing to try to find answers in fields that have seen us suffering, but that today they can find a different path. We had already reminded you of this last time: we are very pleased that this Government has been and continues to be at the forefront and among the first to raise the question of grain blocked by the Russians in Ukraine. We are on the front line waiting for that understanding in the UN, where we are working on the resolution to support the naval mission. We know what that attention means and the fact that Italy is attentive to this must make us extremely proud, because it means looking beyond our borders and the situation that we are living and keeping our eyes even on the rest of the world. Stability, solidity, reliability: President Draghi, his Government is manifesting them in many areas, especially in this area. With this vote, we want to give you a strong mandate, convinced that the credibility and international security of Italy derive precisely from the solidity of our position in the geopolitical scenario. Our only compass must be the national interest and who, like us, has this only compass as a point of reference will certainly strive to strengthen the action of his Government. Good work, President Draghi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u111	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to join in thanking you for a very difficult gestation and for the sense of responsibility that must inspire all of us at this time. I would like to make one point on behalf of all my colleagues in the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC. We too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will support you today, as we have always done since 1 March, because nothing has unfortunately changed since then. [[Applause]] In the same way nothing has changed since, with the so-called Ukraine decree, for reasons understandable from the institutional and constitutional point of view (the Government, not by chance, is called Executive), we have given the Government the power to represent our country for the emergency Ukraine in the Council of the European Union and in all possible international fora. [[Applause]] I do not think, Mr Draghi, that we would make you a welcome service if we forced you during a summit to say: halt, I apologize, stop everyone, this is a decision too important, I have to go and call the Parliament of the Italian Republic. It is clear, Mr President, that we will be consulted and that, as has been the case so far, Parliament will be involved in accordance with the regulations in force in this dramatic Ukraine emergency. It is equally clear, Mr Draghi, that, as at the first point in the resolution adopted on 1 March, what we are pursuing as our primary objective is peace. [[Applause]] We are all builders of peace, but we are pacifists of doing. Without Ukraine's defence, peace will never be reached. Mr President, we too use a phrase that Pope Francis used in full pandemic in the prospect of healing a sick world: no one is saved alone. [[Applause]] What disease is more deadly than war? A war that opens terrible lacerations in the hearts of the people and reasons of the world; a war, like this, of aggression and conquest, which has opened a wound in the heart of Europe? President Draghi, you described the devastation of the war, having seen it with your own eyes. We don't have a hard time believing her. This is a war fought on the territory, but it is also a media war, of information and disinformation (or "disinformaticia" that you say you want). It is a war that we must all live in full awareness that - I repeat - no one is saved alone. The defence of Ukraine's borders and the economic and military humanitarian aid paid to Ukraine are an act of altruism and selfishness together, because the defence of Ukraine's borders is the defence of Europe's and our country's borders. [[Applause]] Mr President, the sacrifice is great. We are all afraid of war, but we do not want to make demagogy easy and cheap. It is obvious that people are afraid of war and when there is a need to survive, because the bills are too high, because it is hard - excuse the excess of demagogy - to put together lunch with dinner, because businesses have difficulty in dealing with an excessive energy increase for their productive capacities, it is obvious that war is even more frightening. But we, who must reason with our heads and not indulge in dangerous demagogy, must explain that only by fighting the war can we achieve peace, a lasting peace, a peace which, as you say, is mutually satisfactory, which satisfies the demands of Ukraine. Otherwise it would not be peace and it would not be a true peace. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we want to give you - but seriously - what we have given you from the outset, that is, a strong and cohesive mandate. I repeat, nothing has changed for us since 1 March. Unfortunately, I do not understand that Russia has stopped bombing. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I do not understand that there have been clear negotiating tables for peace between Russia and Ukraine. On the contrary, I would remind you of your statements, Mr President-in-Office, in which, in response to your requests, Putin replied that it is not yet time. If it is not yet time, we Europeans and the West must put ourselves in a position to defend ourselves from an aggression that - I repeat - is not only military in order to define borders between two regions of the world that do not concern us. We, also because of this war - you have also reminded me, President Draghi - are entering the humanitarian emergency and the biggest food crisis of the last seventy years [[Applause]] , and we are grateful to you for going to Kiev to try to unlock the way of the grain. We know how difficult it is to get out of the strategy of terror that is implementing Russian war propaganda. It is obvious that gas and wheat are used as a weapon of war, a weapon to which we Italians are particularly sensitive, especially with regard to wheat and cereals, because a dramatic food emergency in Africa would produce an immediate rebound effect on the migratory flows that would spill over our country [[Applause]] So thank you for understanding this before and better than others. In this regard, precisely because the gas emergency, the energy emergency and a common European energy policy are not only empty words, but they also have a path, we are happy that you agree with the line that Forza Italia has always promoted, namely to put a roof at the price of gas, a price cap [[Applause]] It is not possible that, by reducing gas supplies, Russia always gains the same, because in an exponential way the price of gas increases on the international markets. We cannot allow this and this is also a war that we must fight and which we cannot subtract from. Believe me, I am deeply pacifist, like all of us, but it is not pretending not to see the things that disappear: it does not work that way. So, Mr Draghi, let us remember - because it is very important for us - that social cohesion is the value we need to look more closely at now. The fear of war is fueled by hunger, despair and insecurity, so we must ensure, as we have done so far and even more so, measures for the poorest classes, measures for the lowest incomes. [[Applause]] , excerpts from excise duties, reductions in system charges. Europe must help us, Mr President. He has already passed a remarkable stress test with the Covid and has given a great test of start on the right path of solidarity, but to be great he still has to go this way and must not stop in half. To prove that she is a great mother, she must nourish all her children not in the same way, but by giving more to those who need more [[Applause]] and not making digressions in a rigor not only anachronistic and antihistorical, but unbearable, which would breathe into the trumpets of the most dangerous populism. [[Applause]] Mr. President, time is running away, remember the automotive, please. [[Applause]] Remember that fixing an indiscriminate stop to petrol and gas engines at 2035 is a risk without parachutes that our company and our components cannot afford. [[Applause]] Please remind Europe that this is a matter that makes a difference to us. Nature does not make jumps, sustainability must be sustainable, not unsustainable. For all these reasons, Mr President, and for many others, we shall be voting in favour of the majority resolution which, as far as we are concerned, could have had a much simpler birth. Cesarean was not necessary, our gestation would have been much easier. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u114	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, President Draghi, we come to this day with the adoption of the majority resolution here in the Senate not without some fibrillation. It is useless to hide that the subscription was made a short distance from this moment of discussion and then from the next vote. One thing is undoubtedly true, however, namely that it has been signed in a unified manner by the whole majority. This is an important expression of will which must of course give it strength and mandate and which also gives it an important helm to be expressed in the European Council on the priorities to be taken. Of course everything could be done in a more linear and even faster way yesterday afternoon and I must say that the work that both the Undersecretary Amendola and President Stefano have done and, for his part, the Minister for relations with Parliament has been particularly tiring, because undoubtedly the tensions that characterized a part of the majority, the Movimento 5 Stars and someone who probably had an interest in making fibrillare, through such tensions, the majority of Government, have wasted time. Mr President, we need everything but a waste of time today. You know that very well. [[Applause]] You must give concreteness to the will that comes to you today of the majority and that we have subscribed, because the problems that our fellow citizens are experiencing, the problems that the Western world is experiencing with the war in Ukraine are enormous and will have repercussions that will last years and it is useless to turn around: even the most optimistic forecasts of Minister Cingolani to be able to get rid of the forecasts of supply of gas and Russian crude oil, move the bar for a few years, but certainly all the economy that suffers this increase of costs will need many years in order to be able to rise again and we need instead to give very fast answers and we cannot allow these fibrillations of majority to lose sight of the fact that today, if you go to gas, you have to spend 2.40 euros per liter. The decree that lowered excise duties is about to expire and it is necessary, President, to give the Italians quickly the certainty that the Government is not distracted about these requirements and that the decree is done immediately to allow the economy not to stop [[Applause]] In the face of this, we are here in a determined manner, as we have been at the majority meetings which have handed over to you and which give this resolution to Parliament, which says that Ukraine must be supported, that work must be done so that a ceasefire is quickly reached, that all actions taken at national and international level must be aimed at forcing the fighters - the attacker and the aggressor - to find a point of mediation and to sit down at the table. It is necessary and essential that this war be ended as quickly as possible. It is a price in human lives and it is a price in terms of socio-economic imbalances that we cannot afford to bear. Before, among the benches of the government, there was also Minister Lamorgese; we do not escape, although the news obviously put the news on the penultimate page in the newspapers, that this year compared to last year we are already at a 30% more landings of illegal immigrants. We are also aware that the crisis linked to the war in Ukraine is starving the countries of North Africa, the same countries in which we would need stability and that all this, combined with some choice that we do not want the government to make, like going to do sanatoria without criteria [[Applause]] , creating elements of pool factor, can reactivate in an even stronger way mechanisms of exploitation of illegal immigration up to overload our socio-economic system of costs that we do not need today. Instead, we need stability, certainties, to know that the Government is working to find solutions at European level that allow our economy a competitiveness that we thought we had recovered with the investments of the PNRR, but that today is being called into question by an inflation crisis that not only worries, but in many respects appears out of control. We are not pleased, Mr President, that at the level of the European Central Bank (ECB) actions have been taken which have been in a certain hurry and are in contradiction with the principle that it has made it a determined person and a person of character. The era of whatever it takes seems to be permanently handed over to the history books and no longer present in the ECB's choices. That's not good. We need strong action at national and continental level so that everything we need is done not to enter into recession and not to put our economies into recession, I am not just talking about the Italian economy, in awe of other economies. [[Applause]] We woke up much more fragile than before. We have rediscovered ourselves much more fragile than before and also much of that illusion, driven by a certain insidious rhetoric and environmental ideology regardless, makes us discover today very fragile because of our disproportionate energy dependence compared to other European partners. It is not difficult to compare with France's supply of nuclear energy with Italy's supply of gas from Russia and which has to replace the supplies of methane with gas from other countries which, although they may be attentive to us today, are far from stable democracies, they are far from examples of balanced countries. We need, President, that this situation should also develop in our country the awareness that any step towards ecological sustainability is also made in function of socio-economic sustainability. [[Applause]] We cannot afford to create thousands, hundreds of thousands, and I am also afraid of millions of unemployed people, only to satisfy some environmental stimulus based only on ideologies, but decoupled from reality. We couldn't afford it yesterday. We can't afford it today. We therefore need a serious roof at the cost of methane; we need actions at European level that will allow us not to be among the countries in difficulty and we will certainly need a European Union that can not only welcome Ukraine as a country that knocks on the door, but also to guarantee to those who are part of it a level of protection that cannot be the same that UNESCO guarantees to its sites, that is to say zero. [[Applause]] If you enter the European Union, there must be added political value, not just a tag to be placed at the door, otherwise the European Union, which is already struggling to remain compact on decisions today at 27, will be even more fragile. It is useless with this illusion who is knocking on the door today that the path is easy, because today there is a strong psychological pressure date of war. The route is complicated and very articulated. You want to do it, ma'am? We all want to do this together, but the rules on which the European Union is based today must be revised, starting with the main rules, the economic ones and those on which our economy is based. There are costs, there are actions to be decided, there are choices to make. In this case, you go to the European Parliament with a clear mandate, you go with a certain mandate to do whatever is necessary to bring the war to an end in Ukraine. This must be the main action at European level and at any international level. President. - We shall vote on the majority resolution, but we expect there to be serious and strong action to combat the costs I have mentioned. The serious drought that our agricultural development regions are experiencing and the serious energy costs, with the dear petrol we are facing, must be resolved immediately. Our support is for this Government to solve the problems, our support is not for this majority if it becomes quarrelsome and if it comes to waste time to get to do nothing. Go ahead, President, and keep a watchful eye on those within your group who do not have clear these principles. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u117	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to reiterate with force a concept already mentioned by those who preceded me: on 24 February everything changed, because on 24 February Putin not only declared war on Ukraine, but declared war on the values of freedom and democracy of Europe. A violent attack on that idea of Europe, born of Schuman's proposal and the vision of Altiero Spinelli, of a new form of political cooperation that would have made the war between the European nations unthinkable. We did not turn on the other side and from the beginning we were convinced of the importance of responding in a cohesive way, taking sides with Ukraine against the aggressor and ensuring maximum support, without whether or not. [[Applause]] With this in mind, Mr President, we support the applications for membership of the European Union of Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Georgia and we call for the accession of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union. Today, more than ever, we need a strong Europe based on the principles of social cohesion and peace, the social cohesion to which you too often refer, Mr President. We also strongly reaffirm our membership of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, which has never been called into question, because the policy of the 5 Star Movement is firmly anchored in the Charter of the United Nations and the Atlantic Alliance. No more falsehoods and exploitations on this subject. Mr President, we are convinced that Europe must play that diplomatic role which it has perhaps not yet fully expressed, so that a ceasefire can finally open up a prospect of peace as soon as possible. The 5 Star Movement was the first political force to underline the need for a diplomatic solution to this conflict, highlighting that the role of mediator cannot be played only by countries like Erdogan's Turkey. That is why, in the commitments of the resolution, we strongly wanted to call for the Government to take action in all international fora for the cessation of war operations and the withdrawal of all military forces from Ukrainian soil. [[Applause]] The aim is to promote military de-escalation and enhance diplomatic action to achieve peace, reaffirming the sacred right of the Ukrainian people to self-defense as enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Among the commitments included in the majority resolution, Mr President, we also wanted to put the issue of the centrality of Parliament, which has a fundamental and irreplaceable role; a concept which should actually be taken into account in a parliamentary democracy, but which has incomprehensiblely seen us engaged since yesterday, for almost twenty-four hours, in a sort of arm-arm with the Government. A comparison that eventually led to a summary in a text that provides for a necessary and broad involvement of the Chambers at the most important international summits concerning the war in Ukraine, including the supply of military supplies. [[Applause]] An involvement of Parliament, President, which is functional to give more and more strength to the action of this Government and not, as someone mistakenly says, to the government. An involvement that is actually obvious, because it is provided for in our Constitutional Charter and because we are a parliamentary democracy. In fact, this commitment was immediately shared by the whole majority and I really want to thank once again this majority, which has proved to be able to work constructively, putting the good of the country at the centre. [[Applause]] It is important this step, President, and it is important that people have the perception that the battles we do here are not ends in themselves or battles that serve someone or only one part, but are battles aimed at the collective good, the good of the Italians. At this moment there is perhaps only one certainty: the very high price that many are paying for this war, which is added to the very high price that many were paying after two years of pandemic. A few days ago Istat certified that the absolute poor have risen to 5.4 million: a situation that requires serious interventions from the Government, which we, like Movimento 5 Stars, want to discuss urgently. Outside this building there are families, there are young people looking for work, there are businesses in difficulty that see more than halved their capacity for growth. Here in the Senate we have firm measures, such as the Catalfo law, that minimum wage law that must be unlocked immediately, because it fights the scourge of hunger wages. [[Applause]] To the Italians we have to give answers protecting families and businesses from the expensive energy, against which they have to deal unfortunately for months. We have made a very clear proposal: we need an energy fund, an energy recovery fund, an instrument to be financed with a common European debt, as has been done with the PNRR, which is needed immediately to support countries in greater difficulty. We also call for common purchases of energy at European level and for an agreement to be reached on the roof at the price of gas: this is one of the actions that Movimento has been calling for for months now to introduce to counter speculation and protect the economy from price increases on bills. The Repower EU plan is a good start, because it plans to use 220 billion of the next generation EU not yet used. But it is clear that these funds must be made available to all European countries on advantageous terms, without excessive burdens or constraints. You see, President, if during the pandemic Europe has rediscovered the meaning of the word solidarity, now is the time to find that spirit, the same spirit that allowed President Conte to bend the resistances of the so-called frugal countries or of Orban's Hungary, with which different so-called patriots sitting in this House have relations. While he was babbling and actually still babbling about using the Health MES, there were those in Europe who were leading a battle that brought 200 billion euros to our country, which must now be used for reforms. [[Applause]] The Covid emergency showed us that it was time to lay the foundations for a new Europe, which is truly supportive. But now European economic governance must also be changed. It is good to have suspended the Stability and Growth Pact for the whole of 2023, but it must be radically revised, because we cannot afford to go back to the crisis when we responded with cuts in social expenditure, health, education, research, investment and at the same time increased taxes. [[Applause]] Against all selfishness or sovereignism, we must continue to fight to build a Europe more devoted to social policies and the protection of common goods and we, like Movimento 5 Stars, are doing our part, with measures such as that of the superbonus and we ask the Government to unblock the transfer of tax credits. [[Applause]] Mr President, in conclusion, like Italy, we want to be the protagonists of this new course in Europe and you have our full support, in support of the Ukrainian people and the Italian people, whose interests now coincide with the ceasefire and peace. That is why, Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of the majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u120	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, today is the hundred and eighteenth day of the war in Ukraine. Since the beginning of this war, as the Italian Left, we have expressed a firm condemnation of Russia's military aggression in Ukraine, in violation of international law: I think that we cannot be otherwise aligned on this and we have always highlighted this position. However, we have expressed concern about the prospect of a long and exhausting war, of a conflict that is progressively fed indirectly on the model of proxy wars, such as this one, where we give weapons to someone else to fight. The one hundred and eight days of violence, massacres, mass graves - let us not forget Bucha and the many tragedies that have taken place - have shown us that we were actually not wrong to fear the worst. In our motion for a resolution we reiterate the call for an Italian and European commitment to stop this war as soon as possible, with a diplomatic commitment which Europe has not yet been able to express. We must also signal an alarm that this war produces, on the supply of food, just among the weakest. The economist talks about a food catastrophe, because from Russia and Ukraine 12% of the calories needed to feed the whole world, especially Africa and the poorest countries. That is why, in our eight-point resolution, we had called not only for a stop to the sending of arms, but also for work within the European Council on a strong diplomatic initiative, which, as long as we are a part of the war, we cannot undertake, we must inform Parliament promptly, we must ensure maximum humanitarian support, we must urgently engage in negotiations for the release of Ukrainian wheat stocks, we must work on the granting of temporary protection for the foreign population present in Ukraine and also on a profound reform of the economic governance of the Stability and Growth Pact and a roof at the price of Russian gas. What is truly embarrassing about the Government is that whenever we try to make a contribution here, with motions for resolutions, although always with different opinions than in certain points, we do not even bother to read the text and perhaps to approve some of the points we have proposed, to show that peace is sought here in Parliament with oppositions, but simply, with arrogance and violence, we express a negative opinion. I, the Italian Left, will vote against the majority resolution precisely because there has been no openness to the opposition forces, and of course I will vote in favour of our resolution. However, I thank you for your attention, even though there has been no listening and there is never on the part of this Government, which proclaims itself democratic but which actually exerts democratic violence against oppositions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u122	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u123	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, I cannot find in the majority resolution a commitment not to buy more weapons for Ukraine. I wonder why I had read in these last days of serious crisis of conscience by the Movimento 5 Stars and by the most radical left. After the position of Draghi, who is more and more in control of Parliament, the Malpancists must have had enough of Gaviscon. I have heard that you have succeeded in reaffirming the centrality of Parliament. In a parliamentary republic already bent to the record of trustworthy votes and premier without an electoral mandate, it really seems a great triumph: congratulations! In times of demo-Christian remakes, where Di Maio also speaks as if he were Vincenzo Scotti and Giuseppe Conte looks like the Giovanni Goria designed by Forattini, I remember the Andreotian adage: it's better to make a living than to draw a leather! So much so that they are thrown away elsewhere, perhaps with the weapons that we buy and send to Ukraine and also to Russia, despite the embargo. In Putin, among other things, we continue to pay for gas in rubles. Ten days of showing jam muscles, making a big voice in the papers just because there were internal accounts to settle. While Zelensky continues to demand weapons on weapons, Count, Di Maio and Fico ended up on the front pages for a scene halfway between Mario Merola and Tony Tammaro [[Applause]] , at the end of which the only sure thing is the trigger signature to the resolution written by the Government, where there is no shadow of the commitment not to buy more weapons. This means that you will buy more, because Draghi has committed himself to this. You sacrificed the interests and needs of Italians to the will of your patron-NATO. Italians can no longer pay the bill of emergencies created by those who are earning us as never before: finance, multinational companies, the big arms industry, Big Pharma. To fatten these multinationals, you always find money, but the Italian industry doesn't revolve around weapons and vaccines, did they tell you? Did they tell you that agriculture is on its knees for drought? Have you understood the tragedy of farmers, the despair of fishermen, craftsmen, restaurateurs, VAT matches? Did you realize that there are people financially exposed that you don't give anything to? Do you know that unemployment is growing? The Italian Government is not there, and Europe is thinking of expanding to the East, congratulations! Thus, in addition to the barking of NATO, we will have the provocation of Brussels at the gates of Russia. You do not want peace, because with peace profits are not made, and you governed for their profits. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u125	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u126	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, in recent days I think I have seen, together with the Italians, a terrible spectacle. I think I have seen an unbecoming spectacle, which has shown how particularly personal problems and issues are felt: other than political issues and general interests, humanity! So many of you, of us, speak of humanity in this House. We have spoken, we have abused these terms today in this House, but in the end this situation could be simply called a three-fold rebound, for those who want to understand it. I will start with three, Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is the true story, because the motion for a resolution that you have finally made so difficult to compose, after hours and days of negotiations in which the parliamentary groups distrusted the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the expression of that same political force, after all what contains so innovative? We read: we ask for the immediate cessation of the war and this is fine; we divide the two quarrels and it is easy. We are asked to continue our efforts to mediate between the parties, and we are always there; to ensure support and solidarity for the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian institutions; therefore, we must continue - and I agree with that - in supporting the aggressor and not legitimizing future violence on the part of new aggressors. So far it's fine, but it's not very innovative. It is also requested to continue to guarantee, as specified in Decree-Law No 14 of 2022, the necessary involvement of the Chambers, but also the word "wide" has been added. In other words, there is talk of broad involvement of the Chambers, according to the provisions of the law and, therefore, it is always the same. Are you kidding me? Meanwhile the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars splits, splits and 7, 8, 10 go one way. What happens today and which has been called theater is actually a tragedy, because we are giving bad news to Italians who - as has been well said - also have many other problems. We're here to talk about humanity. Yesterday was June 20 - it is not very important that today is the summer solstice - that is the World Refugee Day, but 908 shipwrecked remained to cook on the boats, because this is our humanity. We rightly receive, welcome the Ukrainians, because we are endowed with a humanitarian spirit. But we forget that humanitarian spirit when it comes to other people from other countries of the world. These days we have welcomed 130,000 Ukrainian people and that is fine. But then I wonder what problem 29 people on a boat represent for this humanity of ours. The problem then is that fundamental rights apply to all or simply do not exist. A differentiated humanity is unclean, as it will be wrong - when you launch it in a few days - differentiated autonomy, which is another legitimization of unreasonable and unjustifiable differences. We will have distinctions in Italian territory also formal before the laws of the various Regions. This is humanity. I am therefore going to vote against motion for a resolution No 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u127	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u130	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would ask that, in relation to our motion for a resolution No 4, the five chapters of the commitments be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u131	We shall see how this House will speak when we arrive at this proposal. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Crucioli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Fattori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Paragone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On motion for a resolution No 4 there is a request from Senator Ciriani for a split vote on the commitment of the Government, then the disposition part and five chapters. Pursuant to Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, the motion for a separate vote must be voted by the Assembly. I shall therefore put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 4. It's not approved. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 5, tabled by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Marcucci, Ginetti, Bonino, Masini, Unterberger and De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u132	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-443.ana.u133	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.49.
