ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2166. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 6 of Law No 153 of 12 October 2017 entitled "Provisions on Declaration of National Monument" has been mentioned in Article 10 (3) (d) of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, as provided for in Legislative Decree No 42 of 22 January 2004, introducing an administrative procedure on the basis of which the declaration of cultural interest of an asset may also include the declaration of national monument. In particular, it provided that the declaration of cultural interest referred to in Article 13 of the same Code, which certifies, for the purposes of the definition of cultural good, the existence in immovable and movable things, to anyone belonging, of a particularly important interest because of their reference to political, military, literature, art, science, technology, industry and culture in general, or as evidence of the identity and history of the collective-religious public institutions, may also include, at the request of one or more municipalities or of the Region, the declaration of national monument, if the same things also have a witness value or express a significant, distinctive and exceptional civic identity. The Arch of Traiano di Benevento is one of the most important testimonies of Roman antiquity in Italy and in the world. It celebrates the construction of the Via Traianea, a fundamental artery of alternative connection to the Via Appia, which united Rome to the southern provinces, to Brindisium and therefore to the possessions of the East. Today it commemorates the Roman and Lombard heritage of one of the most fascinating cities from the historical and cultural point of view of the whole Mezzogiorno. For good reason the Via Traianea can be considered, for its historical and symbolic-documentary value, one of the southern traits of the Via Francigena and in this way the road was actually called, at least in some of its traits, as variedly attested. The building of the Arc is traced back to 114 after Christ. It was to be crowned by the exceptional infrastructure of the Via Traianea and the fastest and safest links between the capital and the eastern provinces. Its realization allowed Benevento, an ancient Sannite capital, to consolidate its strategic and political role in the Empire of the time. Trajan wanted to honor this ancient civitas, setting up a work to testify to the last great conquests of the Roman Empire, from the Rhine to Arabia, to the Dacia. The Arch, consisting of a single fornic, is 8.60 meters wide and is 15.60 meters high. It is built with stone blocks covered with parian marble; the trabeation is supported by four semi-colons set up next to the pylons. The narrative fabric of the decorations of the Arc represents the successes and fortune of the princess on what we would now call the internal and external fronts and the virtue of the emperor beyond the limes, the successes of peace, the victories of war, the scenes of triumph and the assignment of prizes and lands to veterans. It is a historical testimony of an unmistakable magnificence; it represents a cultural asset of extraordinary value, as well as of inestimable architectural value. Therefore, it is considered appropriate and historically right to raise the Arch of Trajan in Benevento, with the present bill, to the rank of national monument.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u6	The government representative does not intend to intervene. Colleagues, having to proceed to the vote, waiting until the end of twenty minutes from the beginning of the sitting referred to in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.09 a.m. and resumed at 10.22 a.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u9	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we, as a Group, want to make a brief statement to underline the importance of this measure and to congratulate Senator De Lucia for taking this initiative forward, which is not the first in this legislature, because in the 7th Commission there are other initiatives that tend to enhance our cultural and real estate heritage on national territory. I believe that this is an important element: culture must be more and more a characteristic element of our country, and not only the real estate but also the intangible one. It is very positive that such initiatives are being carried out and I am very pleased that a monument of this kind is being valued. I would like to remind you that the Arch of Trajan in Benevento is a reference point in the history of Romanity and I say it as a Valdostano, since in Aosta we have, among other things, one of the most ancient Roman triumphal arches of all Romanity (25 BC). Therefore, I associate myself with this very important initiative and I hope that our country will look more and more at culture as one of the real and fundamental pulls not only of our economy, but of the entire Italy system, the real business card of our country. It is with this hope that I strongly announce the Group's support for the Autonomies.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u12	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for Campania, for the Mezzogiorno and for our entire country. Recognizing the Arch of Trajan, the Golden Gate, as a national monument, represents an exciting moment for Benevento that hosts it, cares and has always exalted it as a symbol of the city. It is not only a gateway to the city and a nerve center, because - as has been recalled - it has a history, a memory and is a unique architectural jewel, one of the most significant monuments of Roman artistic production. The rich decorative apparatus celebrates, on the front towards the countryside, the enterprises of Traiano in the conquered provinces and, on the side facing the city, scenes of peace and bestowals of the emperor in Italy. The scenes depicted on the facades of the Arch deal with different themes and in particular aim to exalt peace and providence in the inner façade, while in the outer one war and feats by the emperor, such as the conquest of Mesopotamia, Germany and the submission of the Dacia. An accurate restoration, completed in 2002 by the Superintendence of Archaeological Heritage, brought back the sculpted surfaces of the Arch to its original splendor. Today it commemorates the Roman heritage and also the Lombard heritage of one of the most fascinating cities, most beautiful and important, from the historical and cultural point of view, of the whole Mezzogiorno. I would like to thank the Commission and Members of all political groups for contributing to this recognition, because - in my opinion - culture is the only possible future of our territories. Especially at times such as today it is important to have the sensitivity and intelligence to recognize goods of national interest, even outside the big cities and large tours, which actually exist smaller and in less known places, where you have to go specifically to visit the historical and architectural beauties. We must never forget the historical and cultural richness of the monuments of our territories. Their care, promotion and enhancement are gold for the young people of the Mezzogiorno. Our children have in culture and tourism an important and strategic fly to restart the economy of the areas in which they live, a bulwark against the flight abroad of job search. Italy Viva votes strongly in favour of this measure. We have always been to promote and increase culture, beauty and dialogue in order to regain the sense of our identity. It is a great commitment and to do so, both in the North and in the South, we need measures such as the one under consideration, but above all we need museums and theatres, we need our masterpieces and landscapes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u15	PETRENGA (FdI). Mr President, today we are debating the adoption of an important bill, which should not be underestimated, even if Article 3 of the Code of Cultural Heritage already provides, when it is declared a good of cultural interest, that the wording of a national monument is implicit. In any case, as long as we take care of the valorization of our cultural heritage, it is always pleasurable. Brothers of Italy has submitted several proposals, which are in the acts of the Senate, to enhance our heritage, to which no response has yet been given, despite repeated reminders. Coming to today's bill, we accept with pleasure the recognition given, because the Arch of Traiano is a monument recognized over the centuries, which has attracted so much attention from experts, scholars and illustrious visitors; so much so that in 1750 King Charles of Bourbon, visiting the city of Benevento, in front of the Arch of Traiano remained ecstatic, to the point of commissioning a canvas to Antonio Ioli, an important 18th century viewer, to make a painting, today preserved in the Royal Palace of Caserta. Over the years, the Arch of Traiano has undergone several bombings and earthquakes and has always been restored, even if with techniques of the time (before there was no Charter of Restoration and only consolidation operations were carried out). The various restoration works that affected the Arch of Traiano were carried out by the Superintendence to the monuments of Naples and, subsequently, by the Superintendence of Caserta. The Superintendence of Caserta carried out a significant restoration, thanks to a project approved with Lotto funds, in two phases: the first concerned consolidation, while the second the restoration of sculptural decorations. On that occasion a scaffolding was built to allow the visit to the Arc also with the restoration work in progress. In agreement with the municipality was also set up, in the nearby Church of Sant'Ilario, an exhibition with panels and audiovisual media that was very successful. Therefore, it has never been neglected, also because the duty of the citizen and the agencies in charge is to enhance and preserve the inherited goods, which we have the task of protecting in order to pass them on. It is important - yes - to preserve and protect, but after this stage the most important step must come, namely the enhancement. In the measure I read: "without commitment of expenditure" My point is not to be controversial. It is a matter of working with the resources already allocated to the agencies in charge, but the Ministry knows very well that the agencies of protection are now in the luminicino. There are no funds and therefore more substantial spending commitments are needed to enhance and create promotional pathways. I am thinking - for example - of twinnings with other territories where similar arches are located, of the inclusion in international tourist itineraries and of the involvement of individuals to make the Arch of Trajan a great attractor. If this were to be achieved, we would really have taken a step forward in favour of the territory where the monument insists, which is subject to constraints. The Superintendence - for example - has repeatedly invited the mayor to reduce traffic volumes in the street where the monument insists to prevent smog from damaging it. There are limits, therefore, but we must also create advantages, making productive, for the benefit of the territory, the cultural good, which must be a call and become the so-called great attractor. I hope that from tomorrow, after the adoption of this measure, this path will begin. Brothers of Italy is willing to cooperate and I hope that I can see this project realized. As far as we are concerned, today's measure must be a starting point and not a point of arrival. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u18	Mr Marilotti (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is very important, firstly because it is one of the few measures whose initiative originates in the Upper House, if it is true that only 52 of the 309 laws adopted so far in this legislature have had an imprimatur by the Senate. Secondly, it is a good thing to note and give the correct emphasis to the fact that, on this occasion too, Parliament is sensitive and involved in the demands that come from the territory, without indulging in easy localisms. The Golden Gate, as the Arch of Trajan was called, is a symbol of the city of Benevento, an identity element of Sannio, but it is also one of the most important examples of Roman antiquity in Italy and in the world. It celebrates the construction of the Via Traianea, a fundamental artery of alternative connection to the Via Appia, which arrives in Rome, to the southern provinces, to Brundisium and, through this port, connected us to the East; it represents, therefore, an identity not only local but also national, an indispensable international value. The Arch of Traiano commemorates the Roman and Lombard heritage of an important civilization from the historical and cultural point of view of the whole Mezzogiorno. Built in 114 AD to celebrate the figure of Emperor Trajan, optimus princes or - as we would say today - enlightened sovereign, the monument highlights, in addition to the military triumphs of the last great conquests of the Roman Empire from the Rhine to Arabia up to the Dacia, important values such as justice, hard work, solidarity and inclusion. The rich sculptural decoration shows different themes on each facade: the internal one, which looks at the city and the citizens, addresses peace and providence; while the external one, which looks at the provinces, refers to the war and providence of the emperor. Therefore, it is not only a triumphal arch, because in the sculptures are found important moments of the political activity of Traiano, both in the territory, as well as in Rome and in the provinces all: they are an example of the sacrifice for the inauguration of the Via Traiana; the granting of Roman citizenship to the auxiliares engaged in the provinces near the limes, not to mention the institution of the nourishment, depicted in the work of what is perhaps the most eloquent panel that adorns the monument. The emperor had granted loans to the landowners and, with the interest earned, had created a fund to sustain permanently poor children. Here the roar of arms is silenced and gives way to a peace policy, which protects and favours the weakest social groups, and does so by looking far away, if only we think of that great epigraph of Veleia, in Piacenza territory, which attests to us not only the functioning of the measure of Trajan, but also the benefit that this to a different extent provided for legitimate children or not. Mr President, I should like to conclude with a reference which I think is important. Trajan was celebrated as an enlightened ruler, who carried out important reforms, as I tried to highlight. All this makes us think of today's world, devastated by a terrible war that unleashes very close to the Romanized territories, such as the Dacia that took the name of Romania precisely in honor of Trajan; a war that is reaping innocent victims among populations in need of help, solidarity and peace. In this unhappy context the reference to the Arch of Trajan as a national monument can become a message of hope and, together, a commitment to build a Europe and a world of peace and brotherhood in the values of human dignity and freedom. In declaring the favorable vote of the Democratic Party Group to the law that decrees national monument the Arch of Traiano, located in Benevento, I hope that this recognition can help to return today to the ancient Sannita capital that centrality it deserves, overcoming perhaps the current state of isolation to which it is forced by a system of extremely penalizing connections. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the full text of the speech so that it remains in the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u19	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u22	Mr Lonardo (Misto-IaC (I-C-EU-NdC (NC)))). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the initiative to enhance the Arch of Traiano di Benevento deserves consideration because it is a symbol of the city, whose image is deeply imprinted in the minds and hearts of the citizens of Beneventus and beyond. I thank Senator De Lucia, the first signatory of the measure, to which I also signed. When it comes to Italy that we would like, we cannot forget the Italy that we would physically want, the tangible and real monuments that we have and that we should protect, and how we would like them to be treated. Cultural heritage is part of a historical memory that we must not be willing to lose and constitute unique and non-replaceable resources that only a particular country possesses. If there is something that Italians can boast about, it is certainly the cultural heritage that they have been lucky enough to inherit in centuries of history. In Italy, in fact, there are 55 UNESCO sites - a world record like China, whose territory is 30 times larger than the Italian one - and 61 places protected by the Italian Environment Fund (FAI). These are places that collect centuries of history, culture and traditions, whose value goes beyond their beauty. The enhancement of cultural heritage presupposes first of all their protection, which lies precisely in their recognition, conservation, protection and restoration. Physical preservation of cultural heritage is certainly the first step, but certainly the possibility of the use of these artistic goods must not be lacking. Promoting culture also means spreading knowledge of our own cultural heritage, in line with Article 9 of our Constitution. Today the observer who for the first time comes to Benevento and comes across the Arch of Trajan, symbol of the adventure of the eponymous emperor, cannot avoid immersing himself in a magical atmosphere in which the challenge with eternity finds its realization. The Arch of Traiano is really well preserved, especially if we consider that the homonymous arch placed at the entrance of the Forum of Traiano in Rome has completely disappeared and we know its existence only thanks to literary and monetary testimonies. The elaborate and superb design celebrates Trajan in a sequence of paintings on marble slabs from the island of Paros, Greece. The emperor who passed to history as optimus princeps was born in Spain, in Italica, and was the first emperor of Rome born outside Italy. Throughout its history, the Arch of Trajan has had several restorations, especially after droughts, earthquakes and wars. Yet, the Arch of Traiano in Benevento turns out to be among the best preserved triumphal arches in Italy, which is why many tourists decide to come in person to Benevento to see its priceless beauty. The rich sculptural decoration is shown on several facades: the internal one, which looks at the city and the citizens, has as its theme peace and providence, while the external one towards the Provinces represents the war and providence of the emperor; the other scenes are addressed to allegories, to the enterprises carried out during the government of Trajan. On the inner sides of the fornice there are two large sculpted panels depicting scenes of the activities performed in the city; on the left we find the sacrifice for the inauguration of Via Traiana, while on the right is sculpted the Institute of Food. The coffered vault depicts the emperor crowned by a victory. The fragments and remains of the Arch that, over time, have been detached - such as a large block of lower frame - are exhibited today in the wonderful museum of Sannio, rich in artifacts. In addition, it is possible to admire a video display of the Arc inside the church of Sant'Ilario, another wonderful monument of the city of Benevento, where a system of projectors brings back on the inner walls a film of about half an hour, showing the stories of the Arc, a set of fundamental clips to understand the interpretation of the illustrations contained in it. The Arc, in the last fifteen years, has been the subject of particular conservative attentions and technological experimentation that make it an interesting case, especially for a comparison on the evolution of the processes of analysis, documentation and intervention. The restorations of 2003 have tried to solve the degrades due to the aggressiveness of the urban environment and the application of technologies and subsequent investigations have started a first monitoring, trying above all to trigger a process of museum enhancement, but the successive and progressive signs of degradation have led to new scenarios of investigation and intervention. In 2014 the problem of rainwater infiltrations that continued to damage the structure became more evident and the Archaeological Superintendence decided to protect the monument with a temporary cover, the so-called umbrella, which became necessary to allow the assessment of the extent of the damage and to start new restoration and safety operations, even if the community of Benevento did not accept the visual impact of the cover that surrounds the monument symbol. The works ended in 2015, bringing the Arch of Traiano back to aesthetic normality, in time to celebrate its nineteen hundred years, just in 2014. The celebrations were also an opportunity to open a critical discussion on the new digital mapping paths, to identify the levels of risk and how to intervene. The Arch of Traiano in 2011 was also awarded the Italian wonder mark by the national youth forum. This recognition of a national monument makes it one of the most important historical structures in our country, which is worth valorizing, and gives it the status of a protected work, pride and Italian pride. The Arch of Traiano is without any means an extraordinary resource on which our country can count and aim and the city of Benevento is investing a lot on cultural heritage, as evidenced by UNESCO recognition and the inclusion in its World Heritage List of the church of Santa Sofia and the annex and cloister in 2011. The Arch of Traiano is the symbol of the city of Benevento and in a certain way represents its identity. Over the years it has resisted the environmental degradation, the weather, the bombings, the telluric movements, the floods, the indomitable battle spirit of the Sannite people, led by Gaius Pontius who stood up to the Romans, beating them in the famous battle of the Caudine Forks. It is precisely by proudly re-evaluating our identity and by providing consciously and proudly to maintain it linked to our most authentic values that we can start again today, in a period of deep crisis, drawing from our beauties of invaluable historical prestige to raise the economy and look to the future with more optimism. I must say, however, that this stupid optimism with resounding intensity when it is discovered that in the city of Benevento (but in almost the whole of the South) there is the mockery of the PNRR projects, which replace in full or in part the funds already allocated previously and which therefore do not add anything. We are therefore witnessing the phenomenon of "repacking" that the European Parliament has called for to limit, because it runs counter to the development goal that justifies the Next generation EU. The Arch of Traiano, therefore, alone cannot be enough for recovery, but it is certainly a very important thing; instead there is embarrassment, which we hope the Government will clarify, in distinguishing between additional and substitute funding. If the projects are shore projects, the South will start a season of further unhappiness as to development and growth and will certainly be a problem. We must focus more on the promotion and enhancement of its cultural heritage, because they are the only resource that is never exhausted. For these reasons, Mr President, Senator De Lucia, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, announces the vote in favour of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidali component and of the Mixed Group as a whole. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u25	DE SIANO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the following draft law, the initiative of Senators De Lucia, Ricciardi, Russo and Vanin, we are about to give the title of national monument to one of the most important sculptural works in Italy. The Arch of Traiano, symbol of the city of Benevento, was erected with works that lasted from 114 to 117 after Christ, in ancient Roman Benevento. It was the city gate from which the Via Traiana started, the new Roman road inaugurated shortly before, in 110 after Christ, to reach Brindisi and the East. It is not by chance that the reliefs depicted represent precisely the eastern provinces of fresh conquest by Trajan, such as Dacia, Mesopotamia and Arabia. After the fall of the empire, the Arch was incorporated by the Longobards into the city walls, under the name of Porta Aurea, and still today it is the only one of the eight doors still standing. The Beneventan monument, of great historical value, is a symbol: a celebratory arch dedicated to the Emperor Trajan on the occasion of the opening of the Via Traiana, a variant of the Via Appia that shortened the path between Benevento and Brindisi. This Arco still rises today where the Romans erected it, in almost perfect conditions, so much to be - as has been said - in 2022 the Roman Arch that is best preserved in the world, with the bas-reliefs practically intact and very few maintenance and restoration works, which have been carried out over the years. It is therefore a very important, well-preserved testimony of Roman civilization. I therefore believe that it is necessarily our duty to preserve it and to give this work the right recognition, as provided for in Article 10 (3) (d) of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, which reads: "the real and mobile things, to anyone belonging to them, which are particularly important because of their reference to political, military, literature, art, science, technology, industry and culture in general, or as evidence of the identity and history of public, collective or religious institutions. If things are also of witness value or express an identity or civic connection of exceptional distinctive significance, the provision referred to in Article 13 may include, even at the request of one or more municipalities or of the region, the declaration of national monuments. Today we are about to vote in favour of the declaration of a national monument to the Arch of Trajan. It is the task of this Parliament to give such an important witness to our history and our culture proper recognition. Preserving our history means preserving and preparing for a better future. With our Group's vote in favour of this bill and with Parliament's support, we are paying tribute to what it means to remember and remember our country. It is necessary for a nation like Italy, rich in history and culture, to promote and disseminate a glorious history, remembering and celebrating our ancient past. In conclusion, on behalf of Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC, I announce the favorable vote on the bill for the recognition of national monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u28	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, both ancient and modern historians, in speaking of the Emperor Trajan, describe him as the best among the Roman emperors, calling him optimus princes; and this for his great gifts not only of general, but also of administrator and politician; qualities that allowed him to realize important territorial conquests and to accompany them with a vast program of public works, of which still in Rome itself we can admire the greatness in the testimonies that are visible to all. It is in this vast program of public works that was also part of the construction, between 108 and 110 after Christ, of the Via Traiana and the Arch of Traiano (in 114 after Christ at Benevento), which we go to this House today to declare a national monument. These brief historical hints have absolutely no presumption of being a lesson in history, but only to make people reflect on the importance they have and can assume works like the Arch of Trajan, which in full merit of being declared a national monument for what it represents and not only for the architectural and artistic value it covers. It is in fact evident to everyone how its grandeur, its architectural structure, its rich sculptural decoration make it deserve in full the definition of cultural good. It is less obvious what lies behind its construction and which should be seen as a political example to be applied in our day, Mr President. This magnificent architectural work was in fact erected to celebrate the conclusion of the works of the already mentioned Via Traiana, that for those times represented an important artery of connection between the western part of the peninsula and the ports of the east coast, that facilitated the movement of goods, people and traffics from and to the East. It is therefore a work of great political and administrative far-sightedness, realized in a very short time, that allowed Rome and the cities placed to the West of our peninsula not to remain excluded from the commercial traffics towards the East and to reach those parts of the territory of the present Puglia generous of salt, so much so that it is then counted among the streets of salt. The Arch of Traiano therefore, to be seen, represents a victory, the fulfilment of an administrative and political decision, that is, the decision to build an infrastructure designed to bring benefits to the territories. This is what makes the Arch of Trajan deserve the name of a national monument, even more than its artistic and architectural value. If for Benevento and its citizens the declaration of national monument of the Arch of Trajan will be an extra boast for their historical and cultural heritage, for all must also represent and imply a political value of openness and foresight of the past applicable to our days, which we must therefore make our own for the reasons just said. And for this reason it must encourage us to undertake, and not to hinder, the realization of works and infrastructures beneficial for our country, perhaps in a short time. For its historical and architectural value and even more for its political value, therefore, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of the declaration of national monument of the Arch of Trajan of Benevento. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u31	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken and my fellow Members from the Commission who have supported today's journey to the Senate House for the declaration of a national monument to the Trajan Arch of Benevento. It has already been a huge emotion for me to hear about my city and my bow in this House, but I feel compelled to repeat a few concepts, because it never hurts to talk about the monuments and cultural heritage that surround us. However, I have discovered by chance that there are many colleagues who have Benevento origins, Sannite origins, or are married to women and men from my territory, and this makes the moment that we are living in the Senate even more jovial. Considered one of the most important and significant testimonies of Roman figurative art, the Arch was erected by Traiano, a man already magnified by contemporaries and remembered by ancient historians as optimus princes, or the best among the Roman emperors. By many modern and experienced historians he is regarded, by virtue of his work and his great abilities as general and political administrator, as one of the most complete and thrifty statesmen in history and one of the best Roman emperors. Famous for the beneficial works, it reached the municipalities and colonies of Italy through the Food Institution, a measure that was intended to promote agricultural development through the granting of loans to landowners, whose interests were used for the maintenance of girls and children. Precisely this assistance program was celebrated in the reliefs of the Arch of Trajan. This extraordinary example of assistance of the imperial power offered a support to the economy of Italy also thanks to the construction of infrastructures - as my colleague Saponara has rightly emphasized - roads and ports. Almost the totality of Trajan's munificent actions were works of public utility. This is the only reason why the bill before us today is a way of paying tribute to an illustrious character who has made our history, but it is the monument itself that deserves to be declared a national good. Our Golden Door of Benevento: defined as the Arch in the Lombard period, it was incorporated into the city walls and for scholars it represented an extraordinary source through which to tell a good part of the historical events of our country. Starting with Giovanni De Nicastro who wrote in 1723: "The Arch must be admired because everyone admires the great bones of the giants, must relive with amazement and almost worship with silence. It must be considered that perhaps this great mass was never in such veneration as is at present, indeed, she will be ever more venerable and venerated in the centuries to come. And that is what we are doing today in this House. Recently, then, so to represent how many volumes have been dedicated to the different meanings of the Arch of Trajan, I am pleased to highlight the publication of a book by Giuseppe Di Pietro, published by the Archeoclub of Benevento. It is a publication that gathers some extraordinary essays of German scholars all dedicated to the Arch and translated into Italian for the first time by Professor Di Pietro. It is important to underline, then, that the Arch of Traiano is also an excellent example of sculptural complexity, interpreting richness and fineness of stylistic processing in an integrated and unitary relationship. In support of what I say, think that in one of the most supplied gipsoteche of our country, that of the Institute of Art in Florence, today artistic high school, are reproduced in the conference room, in plaster, all the panels of the Arch of Traiano. Two more curiosities: in 1989 a life-size reproduction of the Arch of Traiano di Benevento was exhibited in Paris, on the Champs Élysées, at specific request, within the bicentenary of the French Revolution. And again, the path declaration of national monument starts from far away. It was 1870: in the aftermath of the constitution of the provincial archaeological commissions in the prefectures, with a detailed report signed by the priest Giuseppe Pallante, the Arch was reported to the Ministry precisely to recognize him as a national monument. In short, for the Beneventans, for the Sannites the Arch represents an extraordinary symbol of affection to their own land; a historic pivot with multiple meanings, the object of a series of conservative interventions over the centuries, protected in every way from wars and earthquakes, protected from degradation due to the aggressiveness of the urban environment. Today it is our duty to declare it a national monument so that it becomes a heritage of the whole country. I would like to make a quick clarification of what my colleague Mr Petrenga has said: no declaration of national monuments can provide for funds, but - I am pleased to stress this at the moment in this House - in the recent budget law, with an amendment of mine, funds have been allocated precisely for the enhancement of the Roman arches in Italy. So, there will certainly be something to dedicate to all these important monuments. I would like to end by thanking all of you and everyone who wants to visit us at Benevento. I'll take you to see the Arch of Trajan! [[Applause]] Needless to say, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars. Thanks again to everyone! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u32	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause. The sitting was suspended at 11.12 a.m. and resumed at 3.35 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u33	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of 24 and 25 March will open with the meeting with the President of the United States, Joe Biden. It will be preceded by a NATO summit and a G7 summit, which will always be held in Brussels. In these fora, the Euro-Atlantic community intends to reaffirm its unity and determination in supporting Ukraine: a common commitment to protect peace, security and democracy, which Italy reaffirmed yesterday in the House of the other branch of Parliament in the presence of President Zelensky. The European Council is held exactly one month after the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which began on 24 February. Since then, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 2,510 civilian victims have been registered, with 953 people killed, including 78 children, and over 1,500 injured. Unfortunately, these numbers are temporary, they greatly underestimate the dead and the wounded and continue to grow. In the face of the horrors of the war Italy works with determination, together with the entire international community, for the cessation of hostilities. We are committed together with our European partners to implement localised humanitarian threats, organise evacuations and bring basic necessities. However, our will for peace clashes with that of President Putin, who shows no interest in reaching a cease-fire which will enable the negotiations to proceed successfully. His design appears rather to gain ground from the military point of view, even by using carpet bombings such as those we see in Mariupol. For this reason, the international community has adopted increasingly harsh sanctions against Russia. The diplomatic effort can only be successful when Moscow really wants it. We must not, however, make the mistake of endorsing an opposition between the West and Russia and thus nourish what has been called, on other occasions, a clash of civilizations. Many Russian citizens have taken sides against President Putin's war and protest, putting their safety at risk. To them go the friendship and solidarity of all the government and my staff. The European Council will also reaffirm its support for Ukraine's path towards accession to the European Union. This process has a long time, necessary to allow real and working integration. But, as I said yesterday in Parliament, Italy is at the side of Ukraine in this process. [[Applause]] The European Union has already initiated the procedure, but at the moment it is important to send further signals of encouragement to Kiev. The diplomatic effort must also involve other countries, in particular China plays a major role in global geopolitical dynamics and security. It is essential for the European Union to be compact in maintaining open dialogue with Beijing, in order to contribute constructively to the international mediation effort. The summit between the European Union and China on 1 April will be an opportunity to highlight our position. We must reiterate our expectation that not only Beijing will refrain from supporting actions in Moscow, but that it will actively and authoritatively participate in the peace effort. This message also emerged during the long telephone confrontation between President Biden and President Xi Jinping on 18 March and in the diplomatic efforts that preceded him. I refer, in particular, to the meeting between the American Security Councillor Jack Sullivan and the director of the Chinese Foreign Affairs Communications Office Yang Jiechi, which took place in Rome last week. At the same time, we must follow closely what is happening in the Western Balkans in order to prevent possible destabilizing actions in Moscow. In the Council we will discuss the prolonged political crisis in Bosnia-Herzegovina: we are committed to defuse the secessionist provocations of the Serbian Republic and to bring back the political and institutional crisis that has paralysed the country since last July. It is essential that Bosnia and Herzegovina resume the path of reform in order to get closer to the European Union. [[Applause]] Our goal is to ensure the organisation of the parliamentary elections in the autumn to avoid further uncertainty in the country. The crisis in Ukraine has generated a massive influx of refugees, which currently has over 3.85 million people. In the face of the daily increase in the number of refugees, European coordination and adequate financial commitment are essential. The European Union must ensure that the temporary protection directive adopted for the first time in our history is implemented on a timely basis in the Member States. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, yesterday wanted to use European funds with the greatest flexibility to support those fleeing the war in Ukraine and to allocate more than EUR 3 billion to the Member States involved in the reception. Italy strongly supports the Commission's position and continues to play its part with determination, altruism and solidarity. At last week's Council of Ministers, we approved new reception funds for a total of EUR 428 million. The generosity shown in these days by Italians is truly extraordinary. [[Applause]] I would once again like to thank the Civil Protection, the Regions, the Municipalities, the third sector, the religious bodies for their unceasing commitment. The European Council will also discuss rising energy prices. After the peaks reached two weeks ago, gas and electricity prices dropped again. The spot price of gas on the European market today is halved - this is unfortunately an old news - compared to the peaks of about 200 euros reached on 8 March. I say it's old news because the news has just come out that the request to make payments in rubles, instead of dollars or euros, has again led the price of gas to rise by about 15 euros per megawattora. However, they are still very high prices compared to historical levels: more than five times those of a year ago. The volatility of energy markets has also affected prices to distributors, which, at the beginning of the month, in Italy, exceeded 2 euros per litre. However, according to the European Commission, the trend in Italian prices is in line with those of the rest of Europe. On Monday 14 March diesel cost EUR 2.31 in Germany, EUR 2.14 in France, EUR 2.15 in Italy, but in our case it represents an increase of 40% for petrol and 50% for diesel compared to a year ago. Last Friday, the government intervened to defend the purchasing power of families, especially the most vulnerable ones, and to help companies bear production costs. We have decided to reduce excise duties on petrol and diesel by 25 cents per litre for a month, thus reducing most of the increases recorded in recent weeks. We create funds to support the sectors of agriculture, fisheries and road haulage, which have been particularly affected by the crisis. With the new measures, the number of households with access to social bonuses for electricity and gas is thus protected from the increase in bills from 4 to 5.2 million households. Companies will be able to rate their bills, a tool already available to households; we will set up new tax credits for companies on the cost of energy and gas, and we will strengthen existing ones; we will expand the powers of the Regulatory Authority for energy, networks and the environment, and of the Price Surveillance Authority, so that they can closely monitor changes in the markets. To date, it has not been possible to obtain information on the long-term contracts established by the companies with their sellers. This decision therefore needed to be taken in order to be able to obtain more information on the measures we intend to take in the future. Finally, we refinance the Integration Fund for companies in difficulty. The total package amounts to around 4 billion and is largely financed through the taxation of excess profits gained in recent months by energy producers. Everyone must play their part in this crisis. The Government is aware of the need for further action, but the response to the defence of consumers and businesses must also be European. We must achieve a truly common management of the energy market. Coordination between the Commission and the Member States on the diversification of gas supplies, in particular liquid gas, is desirable. We need a shared approach on purchases and storage to strengthen our contractual power towards supplier countries and protect each other in case of isolated shocks. The creation of a European roof at gas prices is at the heart of a confrontation that we started with President von der Leyen. We then want to break the link between the price of gas and that of electricity, which is partly produced from alternative sources, whose price does not have much to do with that of gas. It is essential to focus decisively on renewable energies and to give a central role to the southern shore of the Mediterranean. On all these fronts, I hope that the European Council will take ambitious decisions that can be quickly operational. As we agreed at this month's informal European Council, the economic repercussions of the conflict in Ukraine go beyond the cost of energy. There are also increases in food prices, which have been growing almost continuously globally since mid-2020 and are currently at its peak, and this has tangible consequences for supermarket prices. According to Eurostat, food prices in Italy rose by 5.2 percent in February compared to last year. In particular, the price of pasta has grown by about 11 percent, that of sugar and bread by about 5 percent, that of meat by almost 4 percent. These increases depend on external shocks that require us to accelerate in the path of strategic autonomy in the food field. This process is within the reach of Europe's technological and productive capacity, but requires an immediate commitment, for example, to increasing arable areas. At the same time, we must be ready to diversify our sources of imports further. Now I have talked about our supermarkets of meat and pasta, but another crisis of extraordinary size, which will end up being a humanitarian crisis if not addressed, is that of food aid to developing countries, where there is indeed almost paralysis of food aid flows. The strengthening of the European economy also goes from protecting strategic industrial areas, to supporting with adequate investment in innovation and scientific research and technology; one priority is to increase microchip production in Europe. A recent study by the International Monetary Fund estimates that last year the bottlenecks in value chains cost the euro area about 2% of gross domestic product. The shortage of semiconductors essential for many strategic industries such as means of transport, industrial machinery and defence has been particularly damaging. Europe's ambition is to increase its market share from 10% to 20% of global chip production by 2030. This increase would enable us to ensure security of supply in the face of possible import delays. The Commission's Chips Act is an important step forward in achieving these objectives. We intend to increase investment in research, develop and strengthen a production capacity that is vertically integrated and that ensures effective autonomy in microchip production and packaging. We must speed up the implementation of the second important project of common European interest in microelectronics. At national level, the Government approved at the beginning of the month the creation of a fund of more than four billion to develop the industry and research on semiconductors and innovative technologies. We must also remain open to foreign investment, but with a coordinated approach between Member States and rules that promote positive spill-over effects for European industry as a whole. The war in Ukraine has once again highlighted the importance of strengthening the European Union's security and defence policy, in complementarity with the Atlantic Alliance. A stronger Europe in defence also makes NATO stronger. The European Council is called upon to approve the strategic compass, following its adoption, on Monday 21 March, at the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence. The compass has been adapted in the light of the war in Ukraine, which is the most serious defence crisis in the history of our European Union. It provides for the establishment of a rapid deployment force of up to 5,000 soldiers and 200 experts in common defence and security policy missions. These initiatives are complemented by investments in intelligence and cybersecurity, the development of a European space strategy for security and defence and the strengthening of the European role as an actor in maritime security. Developing adequate capabilities to be a credible security provider is essential in the path to a common defence. This can only happen if we strengthen our defence industry and make it not only more technologically competitive, but above all better integrated at European level. We all have to gain from better coordination even in the field of defence. The Covid-19 pandemic saw the European Union working together in the procurement of vaccines and - a crucial step - in the creation of the Next Generation EU programme. We must show the same ambition, the same foresight, in response to the war in Ukraine and its political, economic and social consequences. In order to succeed, Parliament's support, your support, is essential and I thank you for that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u35	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I welcome and express my full support both for your strong and impeccable speech yesterday to the House of Members and for the considerations and political will that you have expressed today regarding the forthcoming European Council. I would like to make three simple comments on issues which I believe will be the background to the European Council to which you are going. There are three links: the first between the European Union and war; the second between war and the single market; the third between war and enlargement. With regard to the first point - the European Union and the war - I recall that war was the birth, as we all know, of the European Community, which was born essentially to prevent the repetition of the Second World War. The first strong act of European integration was the European Coal and Steel Community, precisely to physically prevent a war between the Member States. The second act was very consistent with this perspective, namely the European defence community; once Member States were prevented from making war with each other, it became important to equip the European Union with a personality of foreign policy and defence policy. We know that due to the lack of ratification in the French Parliament (it was 1954), this part of the construction process has been blocked. Now we have the tragic war in Ukraine. The Community institutions are about to approve the strategic compass, which President Draghi has rightly pointed out. Let us not hide that this is an instrument born in the aftermath of the Afghan crisis last summer and which is now being strengthened, but we are still very far from an embryo of European defence. This, in my opinion, comes across financial issues. Many say that we have had and that the Next generation EU is succeeding after the pandemic; now the war will have serious repercussions on the European economy and it would take a Next generation EU number two. I am against this, because with the Next Generation EU, the European Union has decided, even with its own resources, to promote the projection in the future of all Member States, with investment projects and reforms, however, at national level. On the other hand, it is very different to have, even with its own financial resources, the possibility of creating and providing a European public good, that is, collective security. It would be a serious mistake, in my opinion, simply to retrace the Next generation EU; it is time to create the "Secure EU," a major Community project. The consideration of war and the single market is faster. We are all realizing in these times that there will be a certain deglobalization and a certain greater dependence on the markets of each. We think what would be of Europe if, in front of China and America (two major continental markets), we still had our own small national markets. One final point, Madam President, concerns the European Union and enlargement. Let us all remember how many times it has been criticized or we ourselves have criticized the European Commission's decision, at the end of the last century, to proceed with eastward enlargement and how carefully and carefully this enlargement has been implemented. However, many have criticized this, which has also led to low-cost competition from the new Member States. Well, I would like to ask a question, particularly those senators, some of whom, a couple of years ago, said they felt more secure in Putin's Russia than in the countries of the European Union. What kind of security would we have today in Italy if that part of Europe between Slovenia and Estonia were in the situation of candidate countries one day to be members of the European Union? It is better, I believe, that enlargement has already taken place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u37	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, there are so many emotions that lead to war, even more so when it comes to a sudden war, a brutal invasion of a sovereign state and an innocent people: anger, pain, astonishment, condemnation, solidarity and commitment to restoring peace and assisting millions of helpless people. That is what the Italian Government is doing very well with you, Prime Minister, and our support is full, convinced and determined. This is what the European Union and the international community are doing well, the forces to which we are bound by a firm Atlanticist and Europeanist cripple. There is a lesson to be learned from this war, and it is the same that we have learned from the pandemic: there are no national or local fortresses that can fully defend us and all the isolationist propaganda is platically annihilated by an invisible particle that puts us on our knees, by the advancing tanks and by the blackened skies of gas, tears and mourning. This lesson calls Europe in the field; as with the Covid, war also requires us to strengthen the European response. Wanting to analyse only the economic aspect, the estimates, albeit approximate, in the European context tell us that between increased domestic costs, recovery of energy autonomy, assistance to refugees and defence and security policy, we are talking about not less than 200 billion. All this involves at least three priority commitments. The first: the issue of eurobonds must become structural, not episodic, in order to expand the financial power of a European Recovery and Resilience Plan, not of individual national plans, as President Monti rightly said; a European plan that must necessarily include interventions following the war, in particular reinforced common defence policies and common energy policy. Of course, the approval of the strategic compass will be an important step forward in this direction. The second commitment: the reform of the Stability Pact must be addressed by ensuring fiscal autonomy for the euro area and the launch of a respectable euro area budget, which is not 1% of gross national income. Third commitment: a strong political initiative is needed. I have taken important signals in your speech, President Draghi: Ukraine's accession, the conclusion of the Balkan countries' accession processes and be careful not to underestimate what is happening in Bosnia. Let us not make the mistake of not seeing what is boiling in the belly of Bosnia and let us not forget the Mediterranean. If the war in the East and the possible riots in Africa, also due to growing food shortages, are settled, we will be in a mortal grip. That is why today - not tomorrow - is the day of a stronger and more united Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u39	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u40	Madam President, Prime Minister, some people continue to say that Europe only wakes up one meter from the abyss and that in periods of calm it does not start to discuss how to improve. I hope that the European Council on Thursday and Friday will mark this step from the abyss from which we must leave and that we can see a European Council reacting together again. I believe that the problem, from the point of view of Putin's objectives, was precisely to divide Europe and divide the European States. Too bad, he lost, because at least so far the cohesion of the European Union has been an important element. Biden's visit to the NATO summit in recent days, in my opinion, can also give some important indications and, of course, strengthen the defence. On the defence, Mr President, I would like to tell you something. I think that to build a building you don't start from the roof, but from the roots. How do we do, who decides or decides where to send this core of 5,000 people? Niger or Ukraine? Mali or Sudan? Who decides that? In my opinion, therefore, there is a lack of foreign policy and defence policy before - or at least at the same time - otherwise governance does not stand up, as is clear. And it is true that today we also offer yet another way of being ourselves: that is, we like the strong man; the strong institutions a little less; the strong women, then, we do not even consider them, because it is quite clear that they are not there. [[Applause]] We apply a sense of measure. For example, I understand that we must have relations with Russia as long as we are 40% dependent on gas, but we do not need to give twenty honors to twenty Russians. The sense of the measure says that, on the one hand, it is clear that we do not tend to the autocracy, but, on the other hand, can we always point out that we are different in values, in approach and in governance and that it is not appropriate that we honor many, all those who pass? Even what, after being well honored, called "falk" Minister Guerini; okay, we'll look for allodles, no matter. One goes to Arabia, all right, but it is not necessary to say that he has found the new Renaissance. This is not the case unless the Renaissance measures itself from the height of the skyscrapers. This renaissance however, the day before yesterday, saw eighty-one executions of death sentences in one day. That is why I believe, Mr Draghi, that your language of truth - that some costs will also be paid by our citizens - must be repeated, so that they do not find themselves - or pretend to be - completely unprepared. It is obviously up to us - not just you, but all of us, the so-called political class - to form and inform, beyond talk shows and anything else, about what we can expect, while all your diplomatic efforts continue in the meantime. Finally, there are things we can do alone. We have the largest Ukrainian community in Italy: 286,000. Shall we regularize them? Maybe as an urgent form. These ladies, in fact, if they can, will ask for family reunions. However, I think that we must not distinguish the good and the bad among the Afghan refugees: that is not what we do. I therefore ask you for an extraordinary measure so that this community of lonely women can find a way to start family reunifications. However, good work and I hope that these two days in Brussels will mark the change, one meter before the abyss. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u42	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Draghi, members of the Government, colleagues, Forza Italia has a very loyal attitude towards this Government. We have always demonstrated this, even in the past, in the difficult moments in which we have also had to face international peace missions. We continue on this path, but I would like to remind this House that we have lost a lot of time and the war is becoming, in its dramaticity, a great accelerator, because it does not only open its eyes to the immense tragedy of the conflict, but also to the conditions under which this Europe is being fought, without energy and food sovereignty and, above all, without a military capacity that allows it to have the authority that has often been called to this House. I refer to a number of your speeches, Mr President-in-Office, in which you pointed out the need to reach a Europe with its strategic autonomy. I've spoken so many times about superpower Europe. In fact, the superpowers, like the United States, China and Russia itself, are those realities in the perimeter of which war does not take place. Then we, as a political force, want to make a truly sincere and real appeal to peace and to make an appeal to peace we must get out of the forms of a certain pacifism, a certain utopia and also from certain "peaceful" who sometimes populate Italian politics. We get true peace if we look carefully at the international situation and realize that we still need to come to a negotiation to end the war. Europe cannot afford it: we are not in a position - we must tell the truth - to face a conflict. We Italians are not in a position and Europe is not, so we must do everything we can to start the negotiations. This is what will have to be achieved at the meeting on 24 and 25 March. Of course, then there is energy autonomy and we must also look carefully at nuclear energy, which has been considered clean. We need to look carefully at the fission of the atom, at nuclear power stations that are located 200-300 metres underground, as has been requested, which could really lead to an energy autonomy as well. However, this will happen over a very long time, because we have to wait ten more years. In the meantime, what do we say to the Italians, when we still have a dependence of around 40% on Russian gas supplies, not to mention the difficulties we will face from the point of view of food autonomy? Then we must speak the language of truth: we do not want war, we want peace, but in order to reach peace we must put in place all the strategies and above all the actions necessary to build it. So even in language, I wouldn't force it any further. We pay great attention when we use words that no longer allow us to go back. [[Applause]] Let us look at the tragedy that is taking place in the knowledge that the war is dragging a nation into the abyss and risks dragging Europe into a war as well. I would like to recall the study of an American university that shows that if the war were to become world-wide and therefore nuclear, as indicated by the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, in the first forty-five minutes of conflict we would have 85 million deaths. So, President Draghi, handle with care: we handle this operation with the evaluation of the whole general situation and we try to understand that the risk that Italy and Europe are facing at this time is exorbitant. We must also highlight this to the Italians. President Draghi, good luck and represent this Italy in the best way: an Italy that is close to you and also thanks you for the important report you have given today to the Senate of the Republic, which represents a further step towards the peace process that we want to achieve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u43	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to remind President Draghi that, even more so because he has no elective mandate behind him, he is bound, in the commitments he will make in Europe on behalf of the Italian people, not to go beyond the limits imposed by the Constitution, on which he has also sworn. You, Mr Draghi, are responsible for the decision-making processes in Europe. The Italian people do not want to be involved as a co-belligering party in this war and you have no right to make several commitments with European partners, squandering public resources to arm irregular armies, even neo-Nazi armies. With what guarantees, moreover, for the Ukrainian people? And with what repercussions on our public finances? No more hypocrisy. The resources to lighten the reloading that citizens suffer on bills and fuel as a result of a disadvantageous commercial policy of its Government that does not protect Italy's interests at international level and the public interest at national level are, as well as late, completely insufficient. Thousands of companies have already failed and others, unable to afford to work at a loss, will fail in their total indifference. Wasn't it you, on the other hand, who said at the time that not all productive activities can be saved? This is not about companies or sectors in difficulty since before the pandemic: these are sectors that have been put in crisis by you and, before you, President Conte have managed the pandemic and, then, this further crisis, with measures that have hit and sank productive sectors that enjoyed excellent health. Thousands of jobs have been blown up and millions are still doomed to jump. You are the bankruptcy of our country, of small and medium-sized enterprises, of VAT consignments and of the savings of Italians. He was put in this position to cash in and does so with unparalleled cynicism. There is never a willingness to support businesses, families, public health and schools, and that is no accident. However, there is availability for weapons and for the business of multinationals producing vaccines, but it has not been mentioned today. The purchase in Europe of 4.6 billion doses of vaccines is announced. But have you ever wondered whether the peoples of the various Member States, to whom you have not even had the courage to display contracts with the pharma, will then be freely available to inoculate products you are buying with public money and which have shown obvious ineffectiveness and cause serious adverse effects and even deaths? Or will you discuss how to continue blackmailing the green pass forever, already planned in Europe until June 2023? Report that only in Italy, because of its measures, we have, outside every real emergency framework, 600,000 healthy workers suspended without salary, some of whom will be able to return to work with buffer. The health care workers will be punished until 31 December. In this European Council, will you then discuss how to entrust the direction of the next pandemics to the World Health Organization (WHO), which also lives with the funds of those who produce and disseminate vaccines, in spite of any conflict of interest? Is this how you plan to overcome the constitutional barriers of the various states and parliaments and the will of the peoples? In summary, on the one hand, you propose to finance the war industry, where perhaps the 300 laboratories that worldwide produce engineered viruses are included; on the other hand, you fund mRNA vaccines, which should then counter the time pandemics managed by the WHO; on the other hand, you destroy the economy of the various member countries with strategic lockdowns. Dulcis in the end, you are going to establish total social control with a unique digital identity on which health and financial data are present... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Garnet. GRANATO (Mixed). If these are your plans, not on behalf of the Italian people, thank you. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u45	There is no room for controversy whatsoever. Everyone can express what they want in this House; please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u46	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u47	Mr President, unfortunately, the tragedy of the Ukrainian people, to whom we naturally address all our solidarity and closeness, has made us realize further how important it is for the countries of the Union to be united and to cooperate for peace. Unfortunately, we are experiencing a moment of extreme difficulty: after the pandemic, the new drama of war. The first was a symmetric shock, but disassembled over time, while this is a purely asymmetric shock, which has a major impact on Europe. Both of these crises have made us understand, if anything, that European countries must cooperate, they must work together to be a global actor able to respond to external threats, whether it be a virus or a war. The war always sucks, Madam President, in any case, whatever the people who suffer it. Unfortunately, today we see the Ukrainian people suffering from it, but there are twenty armed conflicts in the world and we must realize what is happening on all sides. Of course, the conflict in Ukraine is closer to us not only because of a geographical problem, but also because of the consequences it has on the European people. The implementation of the 2001 Refugee Directive, recalled by the President-in-Office of the Council, is absolutely right: it is important to understand how many countries of first reception must be "rescued" from all responsibilities, from all problems. Today we have done this for Poland and other countries bordering Ukraine, but history reminds us of what has happened and could still happen in Italy, so we have to work very carefully on these issues. In the various documents we read we talk about strategic autonomy in the areas of security, energy and the related industry, but we must always remember that at the heart of the action must be put people, citizens, who are obviously already exhausted from everything that has happened with the pandemic, with the destabilisation of the prices and costs that we have seen these days, as the President-in-Office of the Council has reminded us. They are also powerful shocks to small businesses, which are our fundamental productive fabric. The government has intervened, but I believe that we can intervene more forcefully and forcefully. The President-in-Office reminded us that prices have risen by 40% and 50%, so much more can be done. In this context, then, can we talk about increasing military spending? We may have to put people's problems at the centre of the matter. Today they are Italians, but they are the problems of all the people of the European Union. We consider that the United States spends $660 billion a year on military spending and the European Union 230 jointly, four times what Russia spends; there are huge spaces to optimize these resources, which are already very large. That's what we may have to work on first. So we have to think about the actions we do, always keeping people at the center. When we talk about a strategic compass and a European defence system, we are basically talking about a further transfer of sovereignty to the Union. These further transfers of sovereignty must go hand in hand, Mr President, with an increase in the level of democratic power of the Union and hence of the European Parliament. We must put our hands on the treaties and ensure that further transfers of sovereignty correspond to an increase in the strength of those who represent the institutions. [[Applause]] We really need to work on this, otherwise we will not achieve our goal. On the other hand, if we think, as I said before, of the efficiency of military spending, the comparison with the other actors, in particular with the United States, is not feasible. The United States historically does gendarmes in the world, we, as the European Union, do not have to do this and we can safely say that optimization gives us all the resources we need. You talked about the industry and the chips. We must also remember the recent acquisition by Nvidia of Arm. The latter is an English company acquired by Nvidia for 40 billion dollars and is the company that designs chips. There is an Antitrust action on this and we must be careful, also because then we hear of the great resources that the Union puts on the subject of semiconductors and we also read that Intel would like to make a factory in Germany by spending 17 billion dollars, perhaps taking all the resources that we have made available to Europeans. But we have champions in Europe. One of the champions, as we know well, is Italian-French, participated by the Italian and French Governments. So we really need to defend our strategy. Autonomy obviously affects the energy sector: we must see short and medium-long times; in the short time we must bear in mind that in the Iberian Peninsula there are seven regasifiers that are not connected and therefore we must connect them. France did not want to reconnect them, so we must speak well with the French in order to ensure that this strategic action comes to an immediate conclusion. Of course, we have to go on renewable energy. It is important to ensure that the industry is ready. Then there is the whole issue of strategic minerals, which I spoke about last time. President, perhaps Italy could build a large factory to recycle strategic minerals from waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). This is something I think it is good to achieve. Finally, I would like to focus on the futures. We have read that the Title transfer facility (TTF), which determines the market price, is established on the futures market, which are ten times the volume of gas available in the world. Well, perhaps we need to start to understand, and we can do so at the World Trade Organisation, that the only system we have is to intervene in that forum to say that all this finance hurts us very much. Perhaps we need to compress finance and talk about the economy, because perhaps it is with it that we produce a lot of jobs, with finance much less. [[Applause]] I hope, Mr President, that you, who know the market very well, will have the strength to speak on these issues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vattuone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u49	Mr President, the European Council of 24 and 25 March will address the issue of security and defence with the approval of the strategic compass on which I wish to address briefly. Moscow's aggression against Ukraine has and will have economic repercussions, but also a profound impact on the system of international relations and on global balances. So there remains the huge problem of how to deal with the issue of international balances with an adequate capacity for governance of the system. The break-up with Moscow will have consequences. President, you, like others, have rightly mentioned the Balkans, but there will also be consequences outside the European Continent, in the different scenarios where Moscow's influence counts. That is why today, if there is any further need, we are inescapable of increasing the European Union's capacity as an essential factor in strengthening its role in favour of security, peace and international stability, with positive effects, even in a complementary way, in order to consolidate the European component of a stronger and more credible Atlantic Alliance. We fully share, President Draghi, his statements about the Euro-Atlantic posture and the complementarity between European defence and NATO. A stronger European defence makes NATO stronger, it is right and we share it, but it should not be hidden that the demands that the international scenario puts before us require much more efficiency and effectiveness in the short term, and we must not hide the gap between the needs of today's crisis and the speed at which the integration of European defence has evolved, which must be pursued as quickly as possible. The good news is the adoption and the desirable approval of the strategic compass, which marks a very important step in this direction. Common European defence is an issue on which Italy has made a strong and valuable contribution in recent years and with Minister Guerini today can boast that it has achieved results in the process of rapprochement. There is a first concrete aspect that you have mentioned, with the forecast of a rapid intervention capacity of up to 5,000 units, with terrestrial, maritime and aerial components, but it is not enough, we have to say. At least, though, let us take a concrete first step. There is also an ambitious action plan, in particular on industrial cooperation in Europe, aimed at investing with more quality also with a view to closing strategic gaps and reducing technological and industrial dependence. We need to simplify the weapon systems - we have said this several times in the Defence Commission - from a European perspective, which can enable us to perform better than with economies of scale and to make system and finally adapt the capabilities to arrive, as you said, at a true integrated defence system. Finally, with regard to the compass, I would like to highlight a fact that is a structural and cultural element of the European Union's action: the idea that security should be inclusive, with the search for dialogue from the neighbourhood, is also a part of particular value, especially when we think of the need to be able to relaunch an agreement to protect security and peace in Europe. I would like to conclude by fully agreeing with the objectives you have outlined, Mr President, but on this point I would like to point out that what is most important for the development of the path towards European defence is to identify the political conditions, as others have said, perhaps more concrete today. It is also important to identify the proper decision-making process for the use of these capabilities. These are these two very important and decisive aspects, because it is a question of surrendering national sovereignty and that is why the Defence Commission, through President Pinotti, has asked several times to hold a debate in this House. I would like to make a further appeal to President Alberti Casellati for this debate, given the urgency and the delicacy of the subject, to come to the Chamber as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u50	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u51	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we in the European component of the Centre fully acknowledge the address given to us as to the position the Government will hold on the matter on the agenda of the next European Council. On the situation in Ukraine, with a country and a population upset by the insane and unjustifiable Russian aggression and to which all our solidarity must be reiterated, we share the demanding promises contained in his speech yesterday in Montecitorio, in the margins of the intervention via video by President Zelensky. We believe that what President Zelensky called for today in the Japanese Parliament on the reinforced energy embargo on Russia, as far as possible for us Italians, should not be excluded from the forthcoming debate in Brussels. As I said to this House on 15 December, the Russian economy was already quite weak and is now in a very severe crisis; therefore, hitting their far-reaching economic source could be instrumental precisely in a faster solution to the war, which is the goal we all yearn for. On the other issues, the report prepared by the Parliament's Studies Service reports them and analyses them thoroughly and invites all interested parties to read it (we have made it available for this purpose on our website, europeisti.org). It is 36 pages full of information, activities, legislative references and current events, which are worth giving the best image of what we Europeans support with passion, namely that Europe is there, luckily for us. It follows that the next few days will be a decisive European Council for common progress on the issues of energy, security and defence, economic issues and industry. In terms of energy, the reference is to the implementation of the Versailles Declaration, i.e. primarily to the need to reduce dependence on Russian imports of gas, oil and coal (the so-called RePower EU plan), to continue to ensure the "Ready for 55" package, i.e. the 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, and to respond to the persistent rise in prices with both short and medium-term interventions: immediately, with the introduction of specific contributions for the most at risk categories and the postponement of bills; immediately afterwards, with the acceleration towards the transition to clean energy. Although we are liberal, we believe that, given the specific and emerging circumstances, it is possible today to intervene in the setting of retail prices by suppliers. With regard to security and defence, the final approval of an updated version of the strategic compass, which we presented with an event in the Senate as early as 16 November, is to strengthen the European Union's defence capabilities in the cybernetic sector, intelligence, space, maritime security and arms control. Synergies in research and development between the public and private sectors are very important. Of strategic importance we consider the new innovation hub to be decided within the European Defence Agency and the joint procurement of military weapons through tax concessions: there are already 23 calls underway in 15 categories, which are worth 1.2 billion euros. On economic issues, the reference is to the reduction of EU strategic dependence in four areas: critical raw materials, health, food and digital. The implementation of programmes of major importance to the European Union is planned. On industry, the objective is to support the dual transition, ecological and digital, through the four complementary dimensions of environmental sustainability, with the implementation of the so-called green deal and productivity, through the strengthening of the single market, the solidity of supply chains and equity, with the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, on which the European Union is the world's leader. There is no time to talk about other things, but let me conclude this way. Colleagues, President, it is now obvious to everyone - or it should be - that only a European dimension can enable our country to act in a global context like what we are facing. In every area - economic, commercial, financial, political, diplomatic, social or cultural - the guarantee of our development is inherent in our being an integral part of an increasingly united European project. As we Europeans always say, it is not a fidelistic choice, but it is in our interest. Good work, then, President Draghi, in protecting and promoting Italy's interests in Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u52	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr Draghi, 40% of our fellow countrymen ask themselves a question, because the Ukrainian people do not give up. They cannot explain it. It is a very simple question, Mr President, and, with all the complexity of the case, I will try to answer it in a simple way. Our Ukrainian friends do not live from memories or memories or stories, because they are well aware of what it means to live under an authoritarian, non-democratic regime. For thirty years they have been lucky enough to live in a liberal and democratic regime, the only one that allows each of them to enjoy peace and prosperity. That's why the Ukrainians don't give up. It would be necessary to go back in time to understand what their desire to resist the invader derives from. We return to about ten years ago, in 2013, to Majdan's uprising: ninety-two days of barricades against their president, Janukovyč, who had been elected to speed up the process of democratization of that country and who at some point not only blocked it, but decided to return to the sphere of Russian influence. There began the revolution and rebellion of that people. That head of government, unlike Zelensky, ran away, had to escape. We're not defending a head of government here, but we're helping and defending a people, who in 48 hours, if he didn't agree with his leader, would take him out. This is the only true truth. Unfortunately, we have forgotten the stories of our fathers and grandparents, what it means to live under an authoritarian regime. After that, Mr President, Russia invaded and annexed Crimea. The international community did not react or, better, the reactions were very weak. It was decided to let it go, hoping that Putin's expansionist policy could be blocked. The result is what we saw just a month ago. And then, with a lot of pragmatism, I say to our fellow citizens: if we had had a capitulation of Ukraine in 48 hours, what scenarios would we have had at our gates and within Europe? It is clear that, if Ukraine had specifications, Putin would have continued to expand. And what would be the reflections on other territories? I am thinking of the Far East (Taiwan), but also the Middle East. We would have given a devastating message: any dictator can conquer and annex a sovereign country, so much so that the international community does not react. That's why we've come to this point. Tomorrow you will attend the European Council, Mr President. I say this to our fellow citizens: the channel of negotiation and peace must be kept open, but it is not us who do not want it. They have attempted several Heads of State and Government: Macron, Scholz, Erdoğan and Israeli Prime Minister Bennett. Everyone has made it clear, unfortunately, that Putin wants to move on. What can we do? We can only insist on tougher sanctions and we can insist on helping a people to defend themselves. This is also the case in our Constitution. It is not true - there is too much bad information - that the Constitution does not provide for help; we repudiate war only in offensive, not defensive terms. You will meet the other leaders of the European Council tomorrow and then there will be the NATO summit. Move forward, perhaps with one voice, on the negotiating table. But beware, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: we ask you not only to defend the Ukrainian people, because we must defend that people in order to defend the roots from which we derive, because we are questioning the freedom and values in which we believe and of which we have forgotten. Thanks also to the Americans, for eighty years we lived in peace. Let us not forget that Putin invades Ukraine because they do not have an atomic bomb. This deterrent called armament, unfortunately, has served for fifty years, when we had only the Warsaw Pact before us. Today the situation takes us back in a much more complex context. We have not only the former Soviet Union; we have China, we have India, we have Turkey. The new world order will be much more complex. Allow me, Mr President, since we are in Italy and are in the Senate, I would like to conclude with a quotation from Francesco Guicciardini. In one of the Senate halls, there's a beautiful sentence that I want to remind everyone: "Look diligently at the things of the past times because they make light for the future and what it is and will be, it has been at another time." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u54	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u55	Mr President, Mr Draghi, I have listened carefully to your words. The European Council of 24 and 25 March will address the Russian-Ukrainian crisis as one of the topics on the agenda. Everyone in this House is well aware that in this sad affair there is an attacking country and an assaulted country. However, I think it is good to remember that the conflict in Ukraine certainly has historical and profound roots. The crisis, initially political and later military, began with the demonstrations in Kiev in November 2013, a crisis that has brought to light in a striking way one of the many international fault lines that have developed most in the countries belonging to the former Soviet Union. The Ukrainian example, before our eyes today, is perhaps the most symbolically significant and geographically most impactful for the interests of European scenarios in all its drama. However, the warnings of this crisis had already emerged over the last twenty years throughout the Soviet bloc. Therefore, in the eye of a careful observer, it is important to keep in mind that the Ukrainian scenario risks not being an isolated phenomenon, nor even being the last. We all know in this House - and not only in this House, but of course we do not - that this crisis could, for example, spread rapidly into the Asian scenario. President Draghi, I am sincere and tell you that this seemingly quiet climate does not reassure me, but I believe that it is the same for you and your Government. Given that the Senate Assembly unanimously wants a ceasefire between the parties, I believe that it is right to point out that among the main commitments of the majority resolution, assessed and written carefully in the Commissions, moreover before the intervention of Ukrainian President Zelensky yesterday, there is precisely an indication to the Government to continue in this objective. However, it should be understood how the European Union can play a diplomatic role and whether the European Union can have the opportunity to play this role. With all honesty, the Union has not been able to interpret this role of mediation at the moment. We have seen a number of unitary attempts by the French President, who have not had the outcome hoped for. But if Europe really can and wants to play this role, it would be extremely useful to understand what the so-called red lines for Brussels are at last. I believe that an important table such as the European Council, to which you will be present, is useful in trying to make this summary. If, as it seems, Ukraine's neutrality with regard to NATO membership is an essential part of Russia and Kiev has also opened up to this condition, we must think of a security system capable of defending Ukraine in the short to medium term. In this game, the European Union must show its will firmly, not least in order to be able to effectively speed up the potential negotiation process and stop this useless massacre of lives of civilians that we would never have expected to see in 2022, least after a world pandemic. But tomorrow's European Council will also have the issue of the strategic compass, the instrument that contains the European Union's security and defence programmes. Reading the first published document, the plan seems extremely ambitious and I do not know whether this is good or bad. What jumps at first sight is that it has been clearly accelerated by the new front opened by the Russian invasion in Ukraine and I do not think it is just my impression. If you will allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the issue of the strategic compass and the autonomy of European defence, I have a couple of comments that I would like to leave to you and to the House. The first point is that, although in every document both national and European we hurry to say the opposite, the risk of a future overlap between European defence and NATO is already more than clear. Let us remember that it is from a European embryo (the 1948 Brussels Treaty) that the future Atlantic Pact of 1949, then the Atlantic Alliance also arises from the European will to involve the United States in the collective defence of the continent. Therefore, there is talk of European defence made up of thousands of men and countries in cooperation and not in conflict with NATO. It is precisely the robustness of this statement that is not so clear at all, as structural anticipations are not clear. The second point, again on the strategic compass, is that we risk making the same mistake again with the birth of the European Union, that of starting from the roof and not from the foundations. A common defence presupposes a common strategic thought, and this at the moment simply does not exist. An example of what I am saying is that we saw it at the beginning of the Ukrainian crisis: the European Court of Justice, rejecting the appeal made by Hungary and Poland, has in fact established that Brussels can retain the funding of Member States that violate the rule of law; a decision that allows the Commission, therefore, to potentially suspend payments to Warsaw and Budapest. Let us stop and reason on the strategic scope of this European modus operandi: a decision that takes place in the midst of the escalation between Russia and Ukraine, just when Europe should show itself as a united front, and I remind all of you that Poland and Hungary are part of that line from the Baltic to the Black Sea and that it should eventually absorb a potential Russian conventional attack on Europe. If the intention of the European Commission, at this historic moment, is therefore to sanction countries such as Poland and Hungary, to which much of the European defence has been entrusted, it is objectively difficult to speak of strategic autonomy, given the illogical nature of this behaviour. Finally, with regard to the economic response to the crisis, the data are beginning to stabilize and we are confident that this international tension will have a strong impact on our economy. Some financial institutions report 1.5 percentage points less than the estimates in the Eurozone and this translates into two percentage points for Italy; estimates that are confirmed by the indiscretions we read every day on the national press bodies. I say, therefore, President Draghi: let us not be in the same situation as the pandemic originally experienced when we felt that we would face the crisis with a few billion detours. Let us get out of a very serious two-year economic recession; let us be ready to protect our economic system. We try to understand how our country can find some opportunities in the medium term, especially in the policies of diversification of energy supply. The opportunity is provided by the possibility of moving the European political and energy centre of gravity southwards, after we have witnessed, with the two Nord Stream projects, the concentration on the East-West energy axis. Italy can return to aspire to represent the energy hub of the South-North axis by developing relations with the wider Mediterranean front. The Foreign Minister's missions to Algiers, as well as the attempts to cooperate with the Mediterranean countries (Spain, Portugal and Greece), which we have witnessed in recent days, are good. In conclusion, I understand that the Government has decided how the Country, Italy and Italians must take sides, assuming great responsibilities and possibly great repercussions. Well, Mr Draghi, if this is the path the Government intends to take towards peace, do so by involving Parliament more closely in every decision, because the continuing development of the situation must see us united with a clear mandate to ensure that this responsibility, taken at international level, must provide first and foremost for the protection of our citizens, our businesses and future generations. The burden of today's choices must not and must not fall on those who have already suffered, on a people who have been leaving for two very hard years in economic, social and health terms. Let us take on, without hesitation, the responsibility to act to protect the families, businesses and the spending capacity of our population. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u56	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I appreciated the part of your speech on energy: the various actions proposed to the European Council are largely acceptable and go in the right direction of greater energy independence, for the benefit of citizens and businesses. The solutions to be pursued are very many: the realization of the common fund aimed at containing the effects of the increase in energy prices; the roof at the price of gas; the common storage; greater diversification of supplies; the sharing of gas purchases; the separation of the market of renewables from that of gas; the taxation of the extra profits of energy companies; the increase, of course, of the use of renewables and energy efficiency; the support to the conversion of the productive sectors, in particular the hard to abbot, difficult to convert, also through an energy recovery fund, as proposed by our president Conte. We will see what will come about in the RePower EU plan. In particular, when they presented that plan, von der Leyen and Timmermans said absolutely commendable sentences on March 8. Presenting this plan, von der Leyen said that the faster we switch to renewables, the sooner we will be independent, and Timmermans said to switch to renewables at the speed of light because they are cheap, inexhaustible, clean and create many jobs. However, President Draghi, it is essential to guarantee operators the certainty of the rules; certainty that unfortunately has failed in two strategic areas: I am referring to energy saving with superbonus and production with renewable sources. [[Applause]] The situation on the superbonus is critical, Mr President. The desirable conversion of the so-called'support' decree-law, which should take place very soon, will not solve the situation. If you do not intervene immediately by widening the audience of the cease-fire [[Applause]] You risk blocking, because the banks are saturated. President Draghi, I do not know what information you have, but what we have all gathered these days tells us that the banks are still and will not unlock even if the support decree will be approved; there is absolutely no such availability. Among other things, it is paradoxical, because Europe praises this instrument, other nations copy it, you copied it with your own government as a measure of support for the energy workers - for goodness sake, it is fine - but it risks not being usable, because - I repeat - the banks are saturated and the very few that operate, they do it on conditions that are not absolutely tolerable and are practically monopolistic. We cannot allow this and we cannot allow the freezing of the credit transfers, which means blocking the superbonus 110 and blocking the same measures that it has just implemented; this would be an unbearable damage. In addition, on which I strongly urge you to check and then act accordingly, I cannot fail to point out that the measure on renewables, which has set a political price and which is practically retroactive, has seriously undermined Italy's credibility in the face of investors. Credibility and reliability - needless to say - are the foundation on which any business market is based. We have therefore suffered a very hard blow on this too. In the last decree, you also included the first provisions on the extra-profits of fossils and some measures to counter speculation. I warmly praise Article 7, which says that ARERA can finally read the long-term contracts of fossil societies. Well done, absolutely well done, now we absolutely complete the project by realizing it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must also tell you, as others have certainly done, about the infamous TTF index, the famous Brussels index which actually determines the cost of gas, which has been prey to strong speculative manoeuvres since November. President, do we want to use this crisis to finally ban the speculative market from the real world? [[Applause]] For some years now, the European Union has broken the taboo and speaks explicitly of sustainable finance. Then I repeat, since you are a superexpert of this: do we finally want to prevent, make life monstrously difficult not to the real world, but to the speculators of virtual finance who make the price? It is not possible for virtual finance to make the price for the real world. After that, we must make everyone aware of the solutions available; we have so many possible tools. For two years I have been going around to talk about energy communities, which are a tool for structurally reducing energy costs, but citizens do not know them, they do not know that they can save. I would therefore ask you, Mr Draghi, to activate an information campaign and to promote it on public television channels. [[Applause]] , with the support of ENEA and GSE, these tools especially to public bodies, as well as citizens and businesses, because we have many tools but we are not using them, and it is really paradoxical. A final measure must be made, which was attempted both in the budget law and in the so-called support-b decree-law, which is a guarantee fund dedicated to energy communities. We have the PNRR 2 billion, but those are dedicated only to municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants. We must provide a guarantee fund that does not cost much, because then with the leverage multiply the investments, for the rest of the territory. I would therefore ask you to consider a guarantee fund for renewables in general, for self-production and self-consumption purposes, and energy communities in particular. The last effort - also this you are carrying on, but it must be continued - is to speed up and streamline the authorisations of renewable plants. We appreciated the simplification on the roofs, but we are convinced that further action is needed on industrial areas, including agricultural areas that restrict industrial areas, to make them usable also for the production of renewable energy. On the other hand, the subjective powers of the superintendences must be limited, which must deny authorisations only for objective reasons provided for in the rules. These levers would allow us to activate immense capital. Now we buy gas, coal, uranium, oil and other sources from many countries and we are dependent on it. Only with renewables can we protect our citizens and our businesses, freeing them from the risks of the international fossil-source market, which - as you said - are destined to no longer be used in the future. We are talking about Ukraine, but not only, as Mr Cioffi also said, because there are so many wars around the world. In doing so, we would take away just the fuel from wars, which are very often linked to the possession of fossil energy sources. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u58	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u59	Madam President, Mr Draghi, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are 117 Ukrainian children killed to date under bombs and it is not a final number, unfortunately, as the approximately 2 million refugees currently fleeing Ukraine are still destined to grow. President Zelensky told us yesterday, asking us to do everything possible to put an end to this bloody war. It is a call that we make, Madam President: we must say enough of all this suffering, enough of the death of innocent children, women and men. Then, every attempt at mediation is welcome and it is good that there are already some in place. We hope that, above all, Europe will act for peace and that a clear message will come from the European Council. That is why, Mr Draghi, we are asking you to give a boost to tomorrow's meeting, so that the European Council will work hard to achieve an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine. It is our duty to be at the side of a people who are fighting an unjustified aggression, which is not only directed against Ukraine, but against democracy as a whole. That is why there is a need for politics, for the European Union and NATO to indicate a third personality who acts as mediator among the parties involved and induces us to suspend hostilities. A personality who is able to induce Russia to treat seriously, so that an agreement can be reached, because we cannot tolerate further bloodshed. At the same time, it is good that the construction of a European Defence Union is speeded up. This infernal conflict makes it all the more clear that we, as the European Union, need more security responsibilities. It is good that the strategic compass, drawn up by the High Representative of the European Union Borrell, provides the basis for the establishment of common armed forces and defines the operational scenarios within which action can be taken, thus constituting a significant first step towards the achievement of a defence union, a European defence for which appropriate appropriations must be provided, at European and national level. Even as a country system, we need to increase defence spending. The recent use of hypersonic missiles by Russia, for example, shows in all its drama that our defence and the European defence, unfortunately, are not sufficiently equipped to cope with possible military attacks. And if, on the one hand, we want the greatest commitment in Europe to peace negotiations, on the other hand, we cannot afford to be naïve. The invasion of Ukraine clearly shows how essential it is to be able to defend itself and ensure its own security by having the necessary instruments and resources. In this respect, we welcome the proposal put forward by the French Presidency to set up a Next Generation EU 2, which will enable us to recover new additional funds, which are suitable to deal with the many problems arising from the outbreak of the war. In other words, we should have a new investment package for individual Member States which, in the wake of the previous recovery fund, should be financed through the issuance of new European bonds. These resources are already needed to structure defence policies, but also to prevent and overcome major turbulence arising from the conflict. In addition to the humanitarian tragedy, the consequences of the war risk creating a further dangerous spiral of recession at European level, including from an economic point of view. It is not said that many European companies, still struggling with the crisis caused by the very hard years of Covid, are able to withstand the rising prices that are taking place, caused by the war. That is why it is urgent for Europe to use itself immediately decisively to respond to the new difficulties. Our energy independence must be fostered, as the rise in oil prices in recent weeks is likely to lead to the collapse of entire sectors of production. These are very worrying signs, in order to combat which must be implemented quickly in the energy field at the recent informal Council in Versailles. Similarly to the energy issue, Europe also needs to invest in diversifying the supply of certain foods (maize, soya, vegetable oils and wheat). The current crisis in food also reveals that Europe, for certain products, is too dependent on Russia. That is why massive investment is needed here too. There is also a need for substantial Community resources to deal with further issues, first and foremost to support companies which are affected by the adoption of sanctions against Russia. We need a compensation fund that allows us not to burden the economic fabric of business. It is also crucial that we invest at European level on cybersecurity, protecting national and European strategic objectives. At this very moment we hear of Russian hacker attacks on our railways: an example of how vulnerable our country is and how important investments are needed in this regard. In addition, efforts must be made to ensure that the various Ukrainian refugees arriving receive decent reception not only with resources, but also by putting a stop to the amendment of the Dublin Treaty. In short, Madam President, Europe is once again faced with extraordinary events and with emerging instruments. The hope is that this dramatic situation will enable Europe to make a new massive leap forward towards a union covering the chapters of foreign policy, defence, energy union and the budget. In short, a genuine political union capable, among other things, of accepting Ukraine's application for membership of the European Union. This is the message that we entrust to you, Mr President, so that we can reach a Europe that can work for defence and, above all, for peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u60	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the next European Council will discuss Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, the energy issue and the dependence of some European countries on imports of gas, oil and coal from Russia. We will also discuss the effects of the pandemic, security and defence issues and, as you, Mr Draghi, also mentioned, the approval of the strategic compass. It is on this particular subject that I am speaking. The strategic compass, after almost two years of gestation (conceived therefore in times of peace) is adopted in a dramatic moment, that is in times of war. It was approved by the Council of the European Union on 21 March and is expected to be formally adopted at the next European Council. It is clear that this document takes into account the current geopolitical structure and the Ukrainian crisis. However, the document has a long-term ambition and, among its concrete objectives, that of strengthening overall the security of the Union and outlining its strategic prospects for the next five to ten years in relation to the threats facing Europe. No one escapes that the geopolitical framework is increasingly complex and that there are numerous outbreaks of instability and hybrid and unconventional threats. In addition to the traditional crisis scenarios in the immediate neighbourhood, namely the Western Balkans, North Africa, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East to the eastern border of Europe, we cannot forget the new tense scenarios in regions further away from Europe, as well as the persistence of the terrorist threat. In this increasingly complex international and global context, Europe aims to strengthen its defence capacity and, according to the compass, it does so through four pillars: action, security, investment and partners. In a nutshell, as the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us, the process of action provides for the establishment by 2025 of a rapid deployment force of 5,000 units capable of operating in conflict scenarios in regions of interest to the European Union. This rapid deployment corps is expected to be multinational, inter-force and multi-domain; it is not a European army, but a joint emergency unit. The second area of the compass, that of security, provides specific attention to cyber domains and space, which are increasingly subject to strategic competition, and also provides for the strengthening of cybersecurity, common intelligence capabilities, as well as the adoption by 2023 of a space strategy for security and defence. It is also expected to increase the capabilities of the National Armed Forces in disaster and emergency interventions in support of the civilian population. The chapter on safety also provides for the coordinated expansion of the presence of European military navies on the key routes for the Union, but also in the indopacific area, in order to guarantee maritime safety and freedom of navigation. The third pillar, investment, among other things commits States to increasing defence expenditure, in order to fill some strategic gaps in national instruments and reduce technological and industrial dependence. The investment chapter also provides for an increase in Community resources to be allocated to the European Defence Fund in the next multiannual budget of the European Union. The final chapter of the compass is devoted to partnerships and underlines the commitment to be deepened and the political dialogue on security and defence issues at all levels (multilateral, regional and bilateral), confirming, at multilateral level, cooperation with NATO and the UN, but also - as I recall - with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), with the African Union and the Association of South-East Asian Nations. Overall, the strategic compass thus provides the European Union with an action plan to strengthen its role in the field of continental and global defence and security, in short, a guide for action and a programmatic path towards common security in the five operational domains: land, sea, air, space and cyber. The strategic compass represents for us a significant and important first step in the direction of a Europe of defence. The European Union therefore assumes, as the President-in-Office of the Council recalled, a responsibility to become an actor capable of contributing to international security and to that of the European continent. But let us repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that this is only a first step, and the point is and will be to achieve (and how to do so) what has been established according to the time limits planned for 2030. We therefore reiterate that this is a first step, or a step forward if you prefer, to promote peace and stability and to ensure security and cooperation at European and international level. However, I would point out that this is certainly not the point of arrival for European defence. We also believe that in the process which should lead to credible European security - and in this we call the attention of the Government - it is necessary for every step to involve the Italian Parliament in its competences. It will be necessary in every step of implementation of the planned roadmap to defend national sovereignty. If the strategic compass wants to represent a balance between Europeanism and Atlanticism, pursuing the line of synergy between the European Union and NATO, for Brothers of Italy in this direction no transfer of national sovereignty can be considered. We also hope that this strategic instrument will have a strong positive impact on the entire national economy and, in particular, contribute to the technological and industrial development of the defence sector, including - I stress - small and medium-sized enterprises as well as in the field of security and airspace. The political judgement on the strategic compass is conditional on what will be its real and progressive application; it is also dependent on the forms of European coordination that it will be able to guarantee and - I stress - the role that Italy will be able to play in this renewed European context. The issue is always about political division and not just about the aspects of defence because what really makes the difference is having or not having a common European foreign policy and never abdicating to the principle of the sovereignty of the nations. [[Applause]] It is also a question of guaranteeing European forces equal dignity in synergy with the allied forces. Brothers of Italy, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, does not support this today that the strategic compass is born and does not support it now that Europe is upset by a unilateral military attack, put on the ground by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, a free and independent sovereign state. The same strategic compass also had to reconsider itself in the light of what happened in Ukraine and also its way of exercising a role as peacekeeper and as a security guarantor. In short, the European Union, which is often so pervasive in the lives of the Member States, even on matters such as nutrition, DOC and PDO products, the sick bollets of the nutritious score, has proved to be absent and weak in some appointments with history. As a political force, Brothers of Italy has always criticized a fanatical European Union for being a bureaucratic and economic giant and for nothing worried about being a dwarf in foreign policy. After 24 February everything changed and Europe will have to decide what to do when it grows up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u63	Mr President, Mr Draghi, I very much appreciated your speech in this House today. "Europe will be forged by its crises and will be the sum of the solutions found to solve these crises" said Jean Monnet in 1954 and today these words, if possible, sound even more true. The war that devastates our neighbor East is a crisis that in order of time is added to the other serious crisis, the other serious shock is represented by the pandemic due to the spread of the Covid. The pandemic crisis, which has not yet been overcome, has exposed the fragility of our country system in terms of social infrastructure. I think about school and the possibility of continuing to do school with distance teaching, but I also think about our health care system. We thought we had come out, but the phase of renewed growth that has accompanied us in the recent first months of the year, unfortunately today suffers not only abrupt braking, but above all it is swallowed up by a serious destabilisation. Today, our horizon is filled with a conflict that is not only measured by aggression against a free and sovereign State such as Ukraine, but which reveals the open hostility to those freedoms of which we Europeans, we West are expressions, witnesses and bishops, and we cannot do so intermittently, we must always do so. That's why it was good to side with the attackers. This issue results, in the immediate and in some respects, in the need - I believe - to speed up the phase of conversion, reprogramming of structures and strategies and in this perspective, as a country, Italy must continue to insist on the process of greater unity and cohesion with European partners, in order to have greater impact on the international chessboard. I am well aware that it is a step by step job, but Europe does Europe when it manifests itself as a concrete expression of a de facto solidarity, the same de facto solidarity that just last year we called Next generation; and if the Next generation was not a mistake, let alone an episodic phenomenon, we must be able to respond to this new crisis with a solution that includes the same scheme, a common European scheme. Today I believe, with you, that we are called to face a next level, the one given by the freeing of our continent from the energy dependence on Russia of Putin, the emergency due to the prices of energy and raw materials and the obligation to secure citizens and industrial fabric from the negative impacts resulting from this inevitable choice. It is a crisis that commits us to putting together structural and effective joint actions in order to continue to guarantee our continent a safer, more sustainable and more affordable energy, but also the commitment on the PNRR. In order to do this, an initiative which is both European and unitary and aimed at creating a common management of the energy market, as you, Mr Draghi, said here today, becomes central. In this sense, I believe it is necessary, for example, to proceed with a European ceiling at the price of gas as a direct and natural continuation of the new phase of Next generation, but it must be done immediately, in order to prevent families and businesses from jumping. I hope and call on this unit here precisely because it will depend on it an effective possibility to limit the effects of rising energy prices and to put in place articulated measures such as common gas storage, diversification of supplies and a planned increase in the use of renewables. The same approach should also affect industrial policy, with particular regard to access to raw materials, semiconductors, which are directly affected by the right and sacred sanctions against Putin. There is much to be done, President Draghi, I am aware of this, but I also know that a new work of understanding between the countries of the Union can become a plot and a warp to continue to build our future and rediscover the desired peace. The green light given today by Ecofin to give Italy the first instalment of 21 billion to be paid on the PNRR is an excellent news that I want to emphasize here too, which encourages us to move forward without temptations to revisit objectives and implementation times. We will be there for you on this commitment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for these communications and also for being at this difficult stage. She asked the Chambers for confidence on 17 February 2021 and on that occasion uttered a phrase that struck many, especially those who thought they were in front of the technocrate who came from the great school of Bank of Italy and the European Central Bank and instead had a personality invested with a great political responsibility. On that occasion she said: we want to leave and we must leave a good planet, not just a good currency. To think about it, Mr President, this could be the key to a new course in history, because that gigantic word, which is planet, by definition represents the whole, not a part. And, in order to take full care of all its dimensions (environmental, technological, human, economic), it takes a leap of paradigm. For example, moving from a competitive model to a cooperative model. For example, to prevent identity, which is important, from suffocating diversity. For example, to say it with the words of the philosopher Raimon Panikkar, to move from a dialectical dialogue, which involves the comparison between thesis and antithesis, to a dialogical dialogue, where two parties confront each other not in a situation in which one party tries to convince the other of its own reasons, but to arrive at a third position, in a process that is not preconceived and not pre-ordained. After all, Mr President, this could also be the metaphor for a new approach to international relations, for the search for a new world order. You have said this very well, with the words you have also used in your report: we must get out of the logic of the clash of civilizations. A new world order cannot be identified by means of a mechanism whereby the East-West axis is defined by means of relationships of force which inevitably involve force, by definition, but must include the mechanism of involvement of all the world superpowers, in the search for a period, as long as possible, of lasting peace. The indication that you yourself, President, gave and the emphasis you put on China's involvement is crucial from this point of view. I would add more: you have to start thinking - it is like saying it in a circumstance like the one we are in - about Russia after Putin, because there will be a post Putin. We must think about how not to humiliate a country that will come out defeated by all this, because Russia will come out defeated by this affair; and all this will weigh on the political perspective. I do not say that, Mr President, for a relativism that is also in the public debate, for Christ's sake. In fact, I take the opportunity to express my disappointment at those aberrations that we have heard in this juncture of the public debate, where it seemed that someone was calling for some sort of condolence in listening to the good reasons of President Zelensky and President Putin. On the contrary, I would also like to say that I am very sorry that a number of my colleagues were not present in the House yesterday, at a time when solidarity was not being expressed with a President, but it was expressing solidarity with a people, who are currently being attacked and under arms. There can be no ambiguity about this. But the point, Mr President, is to understand how to build the conditions of peace, how to build a dynamic of a new world order, in a more effective way than we are now imagining, and above all what Europe wants to do when it grows up. I take this line in your speech, which is also a thread of consistency with all the public passages you have made during these months. I would like to quote you, if possible; I apologize for the abuse of quotes I am making. You, at the NATO Summit on 14 June 2021, Mr President, said something very similar, if not coincidental, with what you have actually said in your report today. He said: We are building a stronger European Union also in the field of security and defence, in the firm conviction of the positive contribution based on the complementarity that the European architrave can provide to further strengthen NATO. I would like to point out to all our non-EU allies that this is what we unequivocally mean by the European Union's strategic autonomy. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: But, in order to do this, we need to answer some questions, which I ask you in a very short time, in non-rhetorical form. These are open questions, to which an answer must be given objectively. I say this on the eve of an important meeting such as that of the European Council, in the presence of President Biden. Can an intelligent Atlanticism coexist - let me say this - that it is not lived with an element of subordination, together with the gigantic theme of the autonomy and sovereignty of the European Union as a political subject? I think so. [[Applause]] Can we say that the idea of common defence, especially if it is made on the ground of rationalization of expenditure and the fight against waste in this area, is a part of the construction of European identity? But let me say, Mr Draghi, that this has nothing to do with the increase in national military spending, which is a mistake. [[Applause]] Europe is not born of a great military victory, but of the infamy of a great defeat and we must remember that. Can we say that Europe, for example, must be on the front line to ban - even here, let me pass this expression - that stupidity that is heard in the debate that, alas, also crosses these classrooms, when it is said that war has wiped out the issue of ecological transition from the political agenda? Fortunately, President Draghi has already answered this question, because it is the war that puts us in front of the urgent need to invest now, here and now on renewable energy and alternative sources of supply. Can we say that Europe is either this stuff here or isn't it? Can we say, for example, that Europe's greatness lies precisely in its being bordered, that is, not just a European Europe, but that it lives in its relationship with the rest of the world and that, even at a time like this, it bears the responsibility of bringing the point of view of a new world order in which peace is precisely the central element and where the conditions are built for this to be lasting? I think that these reflections should be at the centre of our debate - I have concluded, Mr President - and our debate must be at this level and I hope it is. Unless this is the case, Europe and therefore Italy too would not contribute to building a world in which peace is the hallmark and where there is an effective and lasting component in building a world order that has exactly this at heart. Thank you, Mr Draghi, and I wish you every success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u66	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u67	Mr President, President Draghi, members of the Government, colleagues, a few years ago a historian Fukuyama decreed that we were facing the end of history. They still interview Fukuyama, despite having mistaken predictions, because unfortunately there is a bullying return of history, even in its most dramatic forms. The tragedies sometimes impose historical choices on the people, and Europe, never as in these weeks, has met, has met, has shown itself to be cohesive because tragedies force us to do things that would not be done in ordinary times. It is therefore up to the peoples to do so. After all, those who are surprised at this criticism mean that they have not studied history, how badly did Fukuyama study it. His illustrious predecessor, the Count of Cavour, on behalf of the Kingdom of Sardinia - there was still no Kingdom of Italy - sent our soldiers to the Crimean war, which began in 1853. Many have quoted, but have not seen in their lifetime, a famous movie by Âjzenštejn, "The Potëmkin battleship": those soldiers who overwhelm the people are in the port of Odessa, look at this. Unfortunately, therefore, those lands have been crossed for centuries by tragedies, at the time of the Tsars, at the time of Stalin and, alas, even in Putin's time. You said that we do not want the clash of civilizations and you are right, then we should return to the spirit of Sea Practice, to the ability to dialogue with the world as it is, with the autocrats, with all the particular characters, and not as we would like it to be, because the world is complicated. After all, Nixon, a conservative leader, was also talking with Breznev and in those days - there is a beautiful book by Charles Levinson, "Vodka Cola" - the Americans and the Russians exchanged alcohol and sodas and talked. Today we have too many Bidens and few Kissingers around the world, this is the reality, no one is offended, weavers of dialogue that have served the world. President Draghi, you mentioned the meetings of 1 April Europe-China: beware of China which, since it does not move tanks, today seems to be friendly! China makes us unfair competition; China denies human rights, represses ethnic minorities (uighurs and others); therefore, I would not want us to, for fear of some, embrace others who might turn out to be worse. We must also protect those who suffer the consequences of the inevitable and just sanctions that we share. We must also think about the companies affected by the state of necessity and the causes of force majeure. The decree-law just issued on gasoline and energy should be corrected; Article 23 had to protect with greater force the Italian companies that are not able to withstand the increasing cost of raw materials; we risk the closed yards, the self sanctions to our country. We believe that we must intervene - you have mentioned this - on microchips and on many other issues. In essence, history returns overpowering and calls us to three questions, the first of which is energy autonomy. Very well diversifying sources, but beware, President Draghi: today's vouchers could be the bad guys of tomorrow, and we do not know what will happen in thirty years in Africa or elsewhere. We need nuclear power stations and modern technology. Very good renewables, but steel mills and railways will not work with renewables; they need qualified sources. Therefore, the challenge these days is on long-term projects for energy autonomy, for food autonomy - you said this: to cultivate more fields - military autonomy, European defence, NATO pillar. I want to praise General Graziano and Italian diplomacy for the work they are doing in recent years and the strategic compass is well coming: it is the first embryo. We must charge taxes to those who have made profits, and not only to energy companies: Amazon has also earned in these years of Covid and does not pay taxes, while the trader on the corner closes, submerged by unfair competition. We will support the measures before Parliament. Anyone who speaks to you will be rapporteur for the measure on the sending of arms to Ukraine and aid to refugees, but - I say this by taking advantage of the presence of the Minister of the Interior - we must demand that the Dublin Treaty be re-examined, even for the ordinary time, because nobody shares the Italian effort to welcome immigrants in ordinary times. [[Applause]] Welcome, then, to the emergency to discuss rules even in ordinary times, which for Italy are always of emergency. President Draghi, we have an opportunity to turn Europe into a giant defending and no longer a bureaucrat oppressing with too many laces and laces. We share, therefore, the action that the Government has taken over these months and will continue to support it. But let's also say that you have the chance to play Italy's success on historical matches. The success that Italy has achieved in the fight against Covid, on vaccines, on the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience - and we are proud to have supported the action of the Government - is also played on this story of history and Ukraine, because, you see, it counts more the beach of Odessa than the beaches of Riccione. You will be judged, President Draghi - and we think you will be judged well - by success on the essentials of history, not the details of the chronicle. Let the Commissions discuss land registry or beaches, because its success on the great themes of history will be the success of Italy and will also be our success. Good work, President Draghi! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u69	President Draghi, we have heard many speeches and many of the things we have heard today from you and your colleagues who have spoken before me in this House may also appear to the obvious listener, but there are also less obvious implications, and I would like to start from a point of view. Certainly today we are here to give an address to the government, to be spent in Europe, so that our country can assert its good reasons in a complicated context. It is obvious that you go to Europe and point out that there is too much energy cost, but it is not at all obvious that other European partners have our views on the cost of energy, because we know very well that the European system is everything but standardized at these levels. It will therefore need a lot of commitment and, above all, complicated work, but it must bear in mind - we must all bear in mind - that we are not just talking about what is happening in Ukraine, no matter how challenging it is. We must also be aware that other issues will follow from our actions and there will of course be counter-reactions. I am thinking, Mr President, of the sensitivity of the relationship with other European partners with regard to sanctions, because it is clear that the more we move forward and the more they are going to put in trouble. They are our weapon against Russia in relation to the economy, but it is equally clear that the twenty-seven European countries are characterized by different needs and also by different fears, and if we do not do well the extraordinary compact front that has miraculously presented itself on this occasion could face difficulties, and this we do not want to frustrate the efforts made so far to reach the end of the conflict quickly. There are therefore issues that are not so obvious, because adopting sanctions may be an obvious solution, but it is not obvious that on the other hand it can produce effects quickly. In the meantime, however, we must be aware that our businesses are in difficulty; that, after the emotional wave, there will also be political and economic relations to be rebuilt; that the entire political and economic relations of the globe from this matter have completely changed, until we reach supplies from the United States of crude oil with Venezuela or even reopen channels, which were closed, with Iran. This tells us that everything is changing and that nothing, after this war event, will be more like before. We must also play in this difficult balance. We are of course always wondering how much the European Union plays as a team or how much each individual country plays for itself, but we have no doubt that our role is to play as a player and certainly not as a co-spectator or as a spectator. Minister Di Maio is on the move, he's going around the whole Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere looking for new supplies of energy and fuel. President Draghi, be careful, because the media simplify a lot. We don't have to replace one addiction with another addiction. [[Applause]] It is clear that today we must remove the great supply that comes from Russia, but we are careful because we provide ourselves from some countries of Central Africa, from some countries of which there is not even to hide the name, such as Congo, Angola - I certainly do not think of Algeria or Qatar - or Libya itself, has implications of foreign policy and balance relations. China in Africa has been doing foreign policy for a long time. So be careful, because achieving autonomy does not mean replacing dependence on Russia with other addictions, but it means building relationships - in my opinion, the government should spend on this tomorrow and in the near future - with other European partners. We signed the Quirinale Treaty a few days ago - and it must still be ratified by Parliament - and there is an overseas country, France, which has major nuclear projects in development and we can safely cooperate with them so that those supplies become for us a capacity to be autonomous and independent of supplies that, coming from unstable countries, can bring us back to a new dependence in the future. On this, Mr Draghi, I say that your presence in Europe tomorrow must make a difference, not merely, however obvious the situation may be, to discuss the agenda, but also to go a little further and think well how Italy should have its own role in this situation. It is clear, in fact, that the same concept that I have just mentioned of autonomy and, if we want, also of uncompressable supplies must be applied on every sphere that is in difficulty today, whether agriculture, whether it is the supply of chips - as you said before - or the production of ore: any strategic production must not go under a given limit, which we must consider not compressible in order to be autonomous. If this concept is not put back in the centre, we will transfer dependence to another addiction and that certainly does not help us. [[Applause]] Mr President, we very much appreciated the government's intervention to reduce the cost of fuel at the pump: from EUR 2.30 to EUR 1.77 was also a very clear message to our fellow citizens. We wanted this intervention from the government and we support it. To the same extent, we need the government to intervene decisively towards our companies, because we had convinced ourselves that we had come out of the emergency Covid and found ourselves in a war emergency. This price is already being borne by our companies. I will then leave you a document, Mr President, which I had through Senator Cattaneo, which I thank: it is a document that comes from a law firm in Russia that represents our companies, that asks us to be careful and not to forget that the sanctions we impose on Russia, on the other hand, are applied, as retaliation, to our companies in Russia. I read: It is necessary to protect Italian companies and citizens resident in Russia through the identification of support and refreshment measures, where in fact - and despite the international legislation on investment protection should not allow it - they are in economic prejudice because of the increasingly probable hypothesis of nationalization, requisition, expropriation, seizure on the basis of Russian retrosive measures. Let us not forget our companies that have made our exports possible for years and have increased our GDP. [[Applause]] Let us not abandon them, for they are at the front today. That's our forehead. To the Ukrainian people we must give all possible and imaginable support, in supporting the refugees who arrive, the real refugees who arrive and we are hosting, but in the other sense we must also give them a vision and a certainty about the future. We will help them in the reconstruction, even physical, of their cities. Well it has done those who have proposed in recent days the reconstruction of the theatre of Mariupol, but be careful, President, not to forget the problems that Italy and the Italians have, because otherwise we will be faced with the paradox of a theatre of Mariupol rebuilt by Italy and a beautiful Amatrice that after five years we have not yet managed to put up. These aporias should not occur. [[Applause]] So let us all walk together, step by step, do everything correctly, but let us not leave anyone behind, I repeat, starting from the Italians and certainly also from the Ukrainian people, to whom we give our greatest support. We need confidence in the country, President, to get out of this economic crisis together and we need a commitment that is three hundred and sixty degrees with diplomacy. We like that diplomacy that works in silence, that you can't see, that takes care of the facts and not the image. We like to think that Italy can play its part, I repeat, as a main player in restoring peace in that country and in rebuilding a condition of international economic equilibrium that puts us back, one elbow to the other, to work and not to fight us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u70	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, President Draghi, among the topics you have discussed, I shall focus on issues relating to energy, which is central to our development. Millions of Italian citizens and businesses are literally on their knees because of the absurd increases that have occurred in recent months and that have been defined by Minister Cingolani as real scams. A previous OECD study last December stigmatized the great difference between the increase in final prices for households and businesses and the increase in import prices for energy products. In this respect, it is sufficient to note the difference between the so-called customs price of gas, linked to purchase contracts of often more than ten years' duration, and the price formed on the Amsterdam Gas Exchange (TTF index). For a very long time the two prices have been similar, but in recent months the first has increased by 60 percent, while the second by 500 percent. To date, Italian importers pay gas at the so-called customs price, but sell it at a price linked to the TTF index which, as I have just mentioned, is enormously higher. The comparison of these figures immediately shows the colossal speculation that is taking place, which is making few people earn at the expense of millions of citizens and businesses. [[Applause]] The real risk is that many Italian companies close, that hundreds of thousands of jobs are lost and that millions of citizens are no longer able to pay their bills. For this reason, immediate and structural action is needed to ensure that gas and electricity sales prices are not so influenced by the speculations of the TTF market, but reflect the actual import prices of the product. We must immediately change the rules in order to preserve the productive and social fabric and separate the electricity market from the gas market. These must be accompanied by other interventions that make us less dependent on supplies from abroad and the only way to do so is to act on the only inexhaustible sources present in Italy, namely renewable energies (the sun, wind, water, geothermal energy and so on), that no war or speculation can ever take us away. This crisis is also the result of the gigantic mistakes committed since 2011 by the central-right governments and, then, the center-left on renewables, on the reduction of investments and on the choice to increase the imports of gas from Russia. [[Applause]] This crisis also shows that the market which regulates itself and gives birth to choices in the interests of all is a fairy tale to which naives or accomplices can believe. The market obeys profit rules, including, as in this case, gigantic speculations that put millions of people and entire countries in difficulty. As I said, we need an impressive investment plan on renewable energy that aims to make us, in the medium and short term, less dependent on foreign supplies and tends to make us almost totally independent in the long term. It is a plan that can now be made with the current technologies available and at low cost, unlike the fandonies felt on nuclear fission reactors of the fourth generation or fusion ones, which are both, for decades, at the stage of prototypes and we do not know when they can be commercially available and usable to plan a serious national energy plan. [[Applause]] The renewable energy investment plan must have a European dimension and the necessary funds must be financed by the Union through a recovery energy fund. The Italian Government must spend all its time to achieve this result, as did the former President of the Count Council in July 2020, when it obtained the approval of what would be called the Next generationEU, even with the consent of the most recalcitrant states, the so-called frugal ones, supporter of austerity at all costs. Since then, also thanks to us in the 5 Star Movement, Europe has started a path of change, of which we are very proud. The scope of this change of course will be better framed in the coming years, since even today, after what happened, those who wanted the ESM at all costs are treated and listened to as statesmen (I remember: 36 billion) and who thought it was enough to counter the effects of the pandemic, except then abruptly and shamelessly change their mind when the Government Count II fell. [[Applause]] From an economic point of view, this historical moment is no less dramatic than what we have experienced in full pandemic and therefore we need to have ideas, courage and determination, as we did then with the Government Count II. It is also important that action should also be taken at European level to curb energy prices, to limit the unacceptable speculations which - I repeat - enrich a few people to the detriment of hundreds of millions of Europeans and to properly tax the extra profits, i.e. the gains from speculation. To conclude, we also need to take action on the temporary framework for State aid to citizens and businesses, precisely in order to enable them to receive from the Member States all the aid that will enable them to overcome this dramatic phase of which they are innocent victims. It is also necessary to extend the safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact, because it is absolutely not the time to reactivate rules that have sometimes been destroyed in a period of great suffering, uncertainty and economic difficulties that affect the whole of Europe. Good work, Mr President-in-Office, and that the bureaucrats of the Rules and Rules of Procedure do not get the better of them. [[austerity. (Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u72	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Lannotti and other senators, No 2, Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, De Petris, Nannicini, Garavini, Bonino and Unterberger, No 3, Senator Crucioli and other senators, and No 4, Senator Ciriani and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u73	Mr President, I will try to respond to the many points raised, but there is one common point for which I would like to thank all the members of the Senate. I am referring to the support you are giving to government action on the eve of this European Council. It is always important to know that you sit at the table with Parliament behind you. Today it is even more important and the choir of this support gives a special strength to my participation tomorrow. [[Applause]] A first group of points raised concerns the European response to this crisis: the economic response and the response to the energy crisis. These points were touched by Senator Monti, Senator Pittella and several others. If a pattern of this response were to be drawn up, it should be said that it is already articulated on three fundamental pillars. First of all, there is a general suspension or a revision (temporary guess) of many of the rules that have accompanied the European Union to date. As far as the budget is concerned, it is certain that the safeguard clause will not be reactivated next year. Moreover, it has been five or six years since I kept pointing out the same point, namely that the rules we have had so far have not served us very well during the great crisis and would have been to be reviewed in any case; however, in the light of today's developments, their revision becomes inevitable and will necessarily be much deeper than what would have been done before the crises of the last two years. [[Applause]] State aid rules, as you know, have also been suspended and revised, but in general how can we think of implementing an ecological transition, an energy transition, a new defence policy without State intervention? It is clear that this will be necessary; certain investments because of their size and the risks involved will not be fully or partially implemented by the private sector. These rules should therefore also be reviewed in depth in the light of these new objectives which the European Union itself has set itself. The revision of the rules is therefore necessary to be consistent with the achievement of the goals that we ourselves have given ourselves, it is not a request of a country. Thirdly, with regard to certain regulations, for example, in the agricultural field, as I mentioned earlier, it is clear that the situation of insufficient production will force us to review the amount of land that is cultivable. As you know, there is a regulation that requires 10% of the land available not to be cultivated, for good reason. It is clear, however, that this rule will have to be suspended if we are to deal with the food emergency. As I said, in the second line, if this is not enough we should be able to import from countries from which we are not importing because we have applied health and commodity standards that prevent us from these imports. The first pillar is therefore a review of the rules that have accompanied us so far. The second pillar is a joint response, in the sense that many of these necessary investments cannot be financed from national resources. We have had this extraordinary experience of the Next Generation EU in which Europe has proved capable of creating joint debt. We will not call it Next Generation EU, but in other ways, but we will have to do the same to finance these huge developments in climate, energy and defence. [[Applause]] Incidentally, there were already plans of this kind on defence that have been circulating for several years, imagining a possible joint financing of defence plans. There is therefore an awareness that these objectives which we have given ourselves again would not be attainable without this second pillar. The third point is energy, of which I will speak in more detail. Clearly, in the light of these developments, the energy market, as we have set it up, does not seem to respond adequately. Here too, we need to ask ourselves what the European Union's joint response might be. I'll be back in a moment. In any case, however, all these challenges can be read in two ways. A deeply pessimistic one: the European Union will not succeed and years of conflict await us, situations in which Italy is seen to lose these matches. The other way is given by a more optimistic vision: we have had so many of those crises, but so far we have made it, so why not do it now? Here's my vision. [[Applause]] We do not have to face these crises with a sense of loss, but with a positive sense, we want to build it together, also because we do not succeed on our own. So you have to negotiate, be patient, and sometimes you have to back down, and then you have to go back. This is the future we have and we will have to face up to. The second topic that has been touched on is that of defence, dealt with in the speeches of Senators Cioffi, Bossi, Vattuone and Rauti. In particular, Senator Rauti gave a punctual representation of the strategic compass and described well how the strategic compass is an important design for the future of European defence, so on the design plan it is an effort that will be accepted by all member countries and is an extraordinary step on the project plan, because it perfectly draws the main contours of what will be the defence in the future. On the level of action, however, it is a first small step because that of 5,000 soldiers is a figure that, as has been mentioned, has been defined in other epochs and that today appears really small, but not only today. This morning I recalled that the President of the Republic of Mattarella, when he was Minister of Defence, that is, at the beginning of the 2000s, discussed this issue of building a common defence and at the time there was talk of 150,000 soldiers. This, then, is a first approximation figure on which we will then have to move forward. The third point on the European compass is the most difficult one, namely the coordination that starts from military production. It is a production that must rightly have an impact on the Italian economic fabric, but also that of other countries, on small and medium-sized enterprises, it is a coordination that requires an industrial relocation of the production plants of the entire territory of the European Union and it is a coordination that must then expand in the successive stages, in the strategic decisions. One wonders, then, why start from the roof: we need a common foreign policy. In my opinion, no, things must go on together, we must equip ourselves, we must start building what will be the equipment and at the same time we must make progress on a common foreign policy. I must say that the latest evidence has shown the European Union's ability to define a common foreign policy. Senator Bonino said earlier that President Putin was counting on our division, on our inability to be united, yet the answer was extraordinary, an extraordinary union. This is a test that the common foreign policy is possible. It must be possible from a structural point of view and not just exceptional, and there is no doubt that there is much to be done. Either way, you have to move on with both of us. One last aspect about the strategic compass is that we need equal dignity with our NATO allies, indeed with NATO, because we are part of NATO. It takes complementarity. This is something important to say, but it is also very difficult. Coordination, which I mentioned earlier, must not only be understood as coordination within the European Union, which is already complex, but also as coordination between NATO forces and the forces of the European Union. The important thing, however, is that at this time when everyone is talking about defence, about increasing military spending and some countries have decided to increase military spending in an extraordinarily significant way, it is important that these increases be announced within a European strategy and not within a national strategy. [[Applause]] You understand that the risk of moving forward with national strategies is quite serious, especially in perspective (we have already seen it, among other things). The energy problems are many and have been touched in many interventions, by Senator Girotto, Senator Saccone, Senator Stefano, Senator Pellegrini and others. There is a problem of price formation. Certainly the Title transfer facility (TTF) is a market that is giving prices that have no connection with production costs, even imagining an adequate profit. On this, however, the positions are very divided between the countries and the oil companies of the North on the one hand and the other countries on the other. The deployment is very divided and a solution and agreement will have to be reached. I really hope that this will happen. In any case, it is important that there is a road to this agreement. Here it must be remembered that the TTF is a structure that was created when fossil energies, in particular gas and even oil, were dominant, while renewables were a minimum percentage. We are now heading towards a world where renewables will be dominant and gas and oil will be residual, not to mention coal. This market, created in this way, in my opinion is less and less a reality. We will then see how we move at national level. The other question is how to separate price formation in the gas market. Keep in mind that within the gas market there are two profoundly different realities: on the one hand there is the gas that comes through the pipes and on the other there is the liquid gas. The gas that comes through the pipes arrives here; the European Union would therefore have a strong market power to impose conditions, including price conditions, because this gas cannot go to other parts. He comes to Europe and cannot go anywhere else, because there are no tubes and at least for a few years there will be no tubes. Liquid gas, on the other hand, is easily sold in the rest of the world, so the market power of the European Union is undoubtedly reduced. As far as renewables are concerned, I have often said that we must invest and accelerate investment plans in renewables. It must be thought, however, that it is not true that the fact that we have set a ceiling discourages investment in renewables (I do not remember who noticed it). The fixed roof is fantastic and allows an extraordinary profit to renewable producers. The truth is that companies that make renewables and also make thermoelectric energy with gas have made colossal profits, which derive not only from the formation of the price of gas, but also from the fact that the price of electricity, even that produced by renewables, is connected, indeed is formed on the basis of that of gas. So frankly, I have no remorse for setting that price, which is a highly profitable price. [[Applause]] Italy is moving rapidly towards diversification, not only by entering into contacts, but also by making contracts. Here there is also an element of time and we need to move very quickly. The same suppliers that we contact, in fact, are contacted by many other countries in situations of need, so much so that the Commission at the meeting of the European Council tomorrow will also propose a plan to coordinate these purchases. It is important and desirable that this coordination should take place especially for liquid gas, because there is actually the possibility of bringing up the price if all countries go on their own. However, this is also a matter that we shall see. I wanted to answer Senator Candiani. No, there is no danger of falling from the arms of a gigantic monopoly in which we have firmly rested for about twenty years in those of another monopoly, just as large, because we will have a plurality of suppliers and therefore there will be no such extraordinary power as we are today paying the costs. There are two specific points. I have noted before that we do not want and must not encourage clashes of civilizations. This is a phrase that was actually created many years ago and spoke of clashes between the West and Islam, but it still describes the risk of repeating the same mistake. We don't want that at all. I would like to quote an episode in this regard. A law has been passed on refugees, not only Ukrainians, but all refugees, and I thank Parliament for not restricting it to Ukrainian refugees alone. There are refugees scientists or university professors, who could come to Italy and could in case enjoy scholarships, funds and funding for research, visiting professorship and other ways of integration into our academic reality. [[Applause]] Among these are several Russian scientists who are asking out. We must accept them and I asked the Minister Mass to let them know and even to predict a telephone number that they can call so that the reception procedures of these scientists can be given the "la." [[Applause]] The second specific point concerns the process that will be necessary for Ukraine's entry into the European Union. I have also said that this process will be long, because this integration needs to work. Nobody wants to suggest accelerated procedures, which then turn against the other Member States of the European Union, but the difference between having Italy, one of the founding countries of the European Union, alongside Ukraine, helping it, and not having it is great. [[Applause]] I have already replied to Senator Pellegrini saying that I agree with the fact that there are unbearable speculative phenomena and that we need to intervene. Incidentally, the Government in one of the last Council of Ministers - I think it was the last - introduced a profit tax. Until then, beyond the fact that I myself had pointed that way on several occasions, no one thought about it. The government set it at 10%. Very well, it helped fund all these initiatives. For many now it is said that it is not enough, but we shall see: Parliament now has the measure in its hands and we will see clearly. It is clear that, as Senator Pellegrini said earlier, the profits are much greater and therefore it is necessary to take them into account. I also answered Senator Gasparri. I was rightly reminded that there are national economic realities which must also be taken into account during a period of war. There is no doubt that tomorrow it will not only be Europe's destinies that inspire our discussions and decisions, but also Italy's defence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u74	I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u75	Mr President, I am against the motion for a resolution No 1 and I am in favour of Amendment No 2. The opinion is contrary to motion for a resolution No 3 and No 4 with regard to the premises and arrangements, with the exception of commitments no. 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u79	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in the face of President Zelensky's statements, we have all felt a deep feeling of impotence. The President of a European country spoke to us from a bunker while the bombs continue to fall outside; a country brutally attacked by a nuclear power asks us for help. Unfortunately, we all know that we cannot intervene militarily to defend Ukraine if we do not want to risk World War III. Aware of this red line, however, we must do our utmost to help the Ukrainians. If a people and their government have decided to defend their freedom, it is obvious that we must help them by providing military instruments. Is it curious that the very person who has told us the legitimacy of having a gun under his pillow to shoot at anyone who enters the backyard today remember that weapons call violence: killing a thief who does not threaten violence would be self-defense, but an assaulted people does not have the right to defend themselves? In addition, we must use our economic strength with sanctions and embarrass more and more, even if this entails costs for us. As the European Union we have all the strength to free ourselves together from energy dependence on Russia; we have the tools to defend citizens from rising fuel and bills. He is right, Mr President, that European integration is also needed for the energy market and the price cap for gas purchases; a new recovery fund is needed to advance the process of integration through common debt. On a European scale, the risk of famine for those non-developed countries that depended on Russia and Ukraine from the point of view of food must also be addressed. The United Nations World Food Programme received 50 percent of its grain from Ukraine, which served countries such as Yemen, Ethiopia and Somalia where food was already scarce. In an interview with the German Minister of Agriculture, Mr Özdemir, Mr Spiegel, said that, as Western nations, we must first keep the agricultural markets open and ensure the supply of cereals worldwide. We eat less meat against Putin, he concluded. We also need a shared strategy at European level on refugees, and we must ensure that public opinion and governments do not split up as with Syrian refugees. We must prevent some citizens from coming forward with the idea that our governments care more about refugees than their fellow citizens in difficulty. We need a distribution that makes reception sustainable and that allows us to develop an adequate integration policy, and this applies above all to Italy, which has so far managed migration phenomena as a matter of public order, deleting from its vocabulary the very concept of integration policies. President Draghi, as you pointed out yesterday, we must insist on Ukraine's timely entry into the European Union, a Union that has so far shown its best side, great compactness and great capacity to respond. Our main strength is the fact that we are democracies: President Mattarella's words come back to his second oath. The authoritarian or autocratic regimes try deceitfully to appear, superficially, more efficient than the democratic ones, whose decisions, based on free consent and social involvement, are more solid and effective. It is then up to us to show that our system is superior to the autocratic one. And the few - fortunately - who complain that Putin has not been heard in Parliament and who still have sympathy for his regime, can simply advise us to live there, but being very careful never to say the word "war": they risk up to fifteen years of imprisonment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u82	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we support the government's action "without whether or not" and I say this because no ambiguity is acceptable and the policies of the professionals of No, who are always the same: the no-trivs, the no-TAPs, with regard to the energy crisis, Mr President, those who have contributed to giving us a country that is half energy dependent on Putin and that is costing us a loss from an economic and social point of view. Then there are the no vax, Mr President, which cost us so much in terms of human lives during the pandemic. [[Applause]] , with their anti-scientific theories. Then the no euros, with their small national sovereignisms against a necessary European sovereignty; they are the same, Mr President, who today stand up to defenders of Putin and call the Russian leader a statesman, a real embankment to the global empire and are costing us so much discredit for our democracy. They change their name to Telegram chats, but these chats always have the same components. They think it's right to put on the same level the theories of the shaman no vax with those who studied and invented life-saving vaccines, or they think that a joint session of Chamber and Senate should be organized to listen to Zelensky and a few days later maybe Putin, to propose a mad and macabre par condicio. Yes, because in addition to countering Mr No, Mr President, as Mr Recalcati has very well written, we must also deal with countering those of the 'neither', those of the Ukrainian resistance and the defence of democratic values, on the one hand, and Putin and the autocracy, on the other. We strongly support your Government, President Draghi, because you have clearly chosen which side to take. [[Applause]] And if I think of the drives of the past legislature and at the beginning of this current one, I say to you that it was not so obvious that Italy was placed where it has always been: with Europe and for the Atlantic Pact. Today, Mr President, anyone who wants to wave the flag of peace can only wave the flag of Ukraine without any hypocrisy. [[Applause]] One hundred and seven children killed, President, as leader Zelensky said yesterday, a macabre account destined unfortunately to rise; women and men buried in mass graves, cities razed to the ground; a month of siege, refugees fleeing by whatever means, mothers who, as in Afghanistan, entrust their children to strangers, mothers who die in stretcher before putting a child into the world, mothers who die of hardship after thirty hours of travel. All this for a man who clearly prepared this invasion. We're with you, President, and the government. Well and just the sanctions, well the weapons to support the Ukrainian resistance, although we know that all this alone is not enough - she said too - and those who see for their part ambiguity from this point of is absolutely instrumental in his affirmations. We must always keep diplomatic channels open and Europe must be the protagonist of peace, without delegate this role exclusively to other countries, so as not to favor Putin's plan, who wants to impose a new world order looking at China, India and Africa. The war is just a few hours by plane from us and we can only be the protagonists of peace. President, you and the Government, thankfully, can count today on the support of a vast parliamentary bow. Brothers of Italy is also showing great responsibility and on this great consensus, as well as the great popular consensus, we must invest. All European governments are getting the same recognition from their peoples, but this condition, Mr President, must be maintained over time and it is the most difficult and complex thing. It will be decisive what will be done tomorrow; beyond how long the conflict will last, hopefully as little as possible, there is and there will be a growing economic crisis and in order to counter it we will have to make policy and take measures in Italy and Europe, that do not cause this consensus to be offset under the blows of the direct and indirect costs of the war. The "lord no," those of the "neither nor," the ignorant, as Dante called them, but even those who today say to support it in some cases, will be ready to distance themselves and profit from the possible growing dissent. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, it will be necessary to share a common European defence, a common European foreign policy, a serious refugee policy and economic, energy and food choices that see a united Europe. The summit of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will build the real Europe, not the one of chatter. The costs of the war are discharged more on some weak groups and more on some European countries than others and this asymmetry risks to re-explode nationalism and Euroscepticism and generate a dangerous disintegration. Italy is one of the countries most likely to be damaged. Italy and Italians do not deserve it: they do not deserve it Italian families, mayors, schools, our military, the Forces of Order and Civil Protection, which for generosity and great heart deserve great respect instead. We, the President, are convinced that the time of the impromptu leaders is over and we are proud of your Presidency and your Government. The time of incompetence is over: two years of pandemics and now the war has mowed out those who thought to go on extinguishing fires without preventing them. Now we are forced by this slap in the face of history to a complete turning point, which speaks of unity in the West, of strengthening the European Union, of ecological transition, of ending the worst populism. Today, Mr President, all this is an opportunity: life tests us and always does so to make those changes that have been postponed for decades. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u85	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, in the light of the statements made by Mr Amendola, I would like to make the request for a separate vote on the motion for a resolution by the majority and, if necessary, on my first signature of the motion for a resolution by the Brothers of Italy Group. President Draghi, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's European Council is the first after the word war, with its terrible meaning, has entered into the vocabulary and political agenda of all European Chancellors, indeed of the world. We are clearly faced with a leap in quality and a change of paradigm in politics, after many years have explained to us that globalisation would bring peace to the world and remove borders, states and differences between political systems. It has not been so, it is not so and - more importantly - it will not be so and we will all have to realize it in a very serious way not to be, as someone has said with very effective expression in these weeks, mere tourists of history, observing the history that passes by us without not realizing it. Tomorrow's European Council - many of my colleagues have already said so - and President Draghi mentioned this in his reply - is crucial to understanding where our continent is going and, for example, if Europe wants to be a political entity with its own foreign and military policy. However, it must be clear that this can only happen if we radically change the approach that Europe has taken so far. To date, Europe has dealt with a thousand unimportant things, often breaking the boxes of citizens and businesses, and never a few really important things, including, at the top of the list, foreign and military policy. This also means rethinking our role within NATO: not Italy's membership of NATO, but - I repeat - the role we want to play as a country and as a European community. In fact, we have to confess that we have given NATO a blank delegation on our defence because we were pleased to be unaccountable and to entrust the American giant with the resolution of international conflicts, since they are merely compressive. Finally, having a foreign and military policy means - perhaps more important and difficult - increasing military spending, because there is no other way. Mrs Rauti mentioned the projects that started: they are little, but they are a sign in the direction that we all wanted and that Brothers of Italy promoted by formal acts (amendments, declarations and resolutions), often unfortunately rejected in the past years. This is unless, President Draghi, in its majority (as I think we are snooping) one does not think that this we are living is just a parenthesis of history. After the night, everything goes back to the way it was before and we go back to not seeing the problems, hoping that, if there are problems, someone will solve them for us. So we will be, in fact, the tourists of history. As I said, this attitude of the many is perceived also within the majority. As it happens, those who say that military spending is not important and priority - let alone! They're the same people who've been saying no to everything all these years. [[Applause]] They said no to gas, oil, regasifiers and nuclear; renewable sources said yes, but please not in their constituency, but in the next one. We are dealing with a majority that I do not know if it has fully understood the gravity of the moment we are living. We have voted on sanctions against Russia with a sense of responsibility and we will vote on them again, even tomorrow. However, we must say one thing about this, which was a fundamental act to demonstrate the unity of the Western world with Russia. These sanctions do not all strike in the same way: it is honest to say that Italy pays a higher price than the United States or other European countries pay, for example. I say this in order to reiterate that solidarity is necessary within Europe and also with the overseas partner on this game, otherwise there is the risk that someone thinks that there are A-series partners and other B-series partners, people who pay a high price and someone else who does not pay any. I say this also with reference to the decree-law on energy, which the Government issued a few days ago and which we declared not only late, but also very disappointing. There are whole sectors and whole chains of the Italian economy that are likely to fail, President Draghi. We need a new recovery plan dedicated this time to the energy problem of Italy, because unfortunately Italian companies are the most exposed to economic retaliation. They are the most exposed because of us, but I would like to say because of you, that you have ruled this country for ten years without having guaranteed economic independence. However, this is also due to the fact that our economy is based on export. On the subject of expensive bills I must remember that authoritative representatives of this Government have shouted at speculation in place, but they have forgotten to say who the speculators are and what the Government intends to do to punish them. [[Applause]] A similar speech applies to the PNRR. I am not one of those who entrust to the PNRR who knows what salvific capacities of the economy; I recognize it as very important, but perhaps there have been too many expectations around it. It must be said, however, that that plan was written in another historical epoch, not in this one. The invasion of Ukraine has created a very strong discrimination and we must renegotiate it and review it together with the local authorities, the Governors, the companies that are likely to fail. The risk, in fact, is that the next bans should be deserted, that that money will not serve or be insufficient and this would be a failure that the country cannot afford. Finally, I would like to make a few remarks of a deliberately political or perhaps even controversial nature. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am speaking on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, which has been told, painted and described by certain lazy intellectual press, but I would like to say more simply in bad faith, as a sovereignist Group, where for certain press, for certain mental intelligence or in bad faith, this term indicates a kind of concentration of all the negative qualities that a political formation can have. I would like to ask my colleagues from the Left, the press and intellectuals who teach us what the whole world is discussing these days, if not national sovereignty, the freedom of countries. [[Applause]] What do political sovereignty and freedom consist of other than autonomy, i.e. military, energy and even food sovereignty? In the matter of sovereignism, a term that we could also replace with others that maybe like them better, I would like it to be clear that there was someone who had seen us long. As I come to the conclusion, I note that yesterday President Zelensky spoke to the House. President Draghi said that Italy is in favour of Ukraine joining the European community. It is a wish that we make our own. It's a long path and it's the beginning of a positive path. Mr Zelensky addressed a European Parliament as a leader. Before the institutions, the one that unites the Italian people with the Ukrainian people, is the common belonging to European culture and civilization. That is why we are at the side of the Italian Government and at the side of the Ukrainian people in a battle of freedom which they also fight in our name. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u88	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, the invasion of Ukraine, a sovereign and independent country, has imposed clear and clear decisions. With sanctions and the sending of military supplies, Europe, perhaps for the first time in its history, has shown in the face of a very serious crisis the ability to be determined, united and timely. He was able to set aside national vetoes and egoisms. We have combined the call to our values, the defence of freedom and democracy, with the adoption of concrete measures to affirm and defend those values and principles. We held together the words, even full of ideals, to the pragmatism of choices, because in this dramatic circumstance, without realism and concreteness, those words would remain empty. Mr President, we thank you for the clarity with which, together with the Government, you have placed our country. In fact, in the face of the brutal Russian aggression, no distinction or ambiguity is allowed: defending Ukraine today means defending Europe and its values. [[Applause]] In this dramatic picture one cannot be equidistant and it is important to have said it with force and determination. It is now essential that Europe, within the framework of multilateralism, be a key player in mediation between the parties, supporting any peace initiative. We must work for peace and, from this point of view, sanctions and defence appropriations for Ukraine are useful in achieving this objective. Deterrence can bring Moscow and force it to the negotiating table. We want peace, but that is not why we can turn to the other side. This is an opposition between democracy and autocracy and we are talking about principles of civilization not only legal, which are fundamental to the European Union. A year ago, Mr President, we were here with you in this House discussing the PNRR resolutions. The spirit and project of a new Italy was being built within a new Europe, the one that was born following the pandemic and based on the historic choice of the Next generation EU, with greater solidarity and sharing among the Member States. Today the challenge is even greater, because the crisis in Ukraine has made it all the more clear that we need to move forward towards greater European integration. They also noticed those who, until two years ago, claimed to return to the nation-states, definitively abandoning the project for a stronger European political union. We want an autonomous Europe. We face structural dependence in strategic sectors, such as defence, energy, technology or production chains. Dependencies to overcome which - we have seen it - we are all working. One of the central issues - as you mentioned here today, as well as so many speeches by my fellow Members - is the common defence, of which the strategic compass is a first step, but which cannot be detached, as you yourself, Mr President, from a common foreign policy. At the same time, we must proceed and move forward. That is why we must, in all the EU's fora, in accordance with the rules of European democracy, work towards the adoption of defined and articulated common foreign defence and security policies. The whole thing needs to be kept together. A true community of intent that protects us from tensions cannot, however, ignore the sharing of economic measures for European citizens. We must now make Europe a reality and then make a political leap, and to do so we need to make an indispensable decision, which is to put a roof at the price of gas, which for its strategic value is worth the Next generation EU. We must support businesses and families, because the fight against inequalities is one of the fundamental values of our culture and we need economic measures to prevent the most fragile from going into crisis, partly because this risks leading to a disaffection with the European project and the rules of democracy and to bring fertile ground for Russian propaganda. After these two years, the reality for many businesses and families is very hard and we have the responsibility to respond to the question of protection while also paying attention to fears. We can't charge anything to the most fragile, this can't happen in any way. That is why we need to work for a Europe that can be more and more different from European rules, and we know that this is also a game to play for a Europe that is really no longer a sum of states, but a true United States of Europe. I would like to join you, President, in thanking the civil protection, the regions, the municipalities, the third sector, the religious bodies that are taking care of reception on the territory. [[Applause]] We know that the government has allocated important resources. We need to move forward in this direction, especially for unaccompanied minors. Minister Lamorgese knows that. She's on the front line on this one, too. We need to help the municipalities, because this will be an increasingly widespread reception, which cannot be fully or partially borne by the municipalities, but which must be absolutely protected. [[Applause]] President, I would also like to thank you for your replies, because you mentioned something that was perhaps a little neglected, but that this Government has taken care of: the reception of researchers, the fact of remembering that science and culture have no borders and Italy was the first to do so and we must all be proud of this, because our Government has given an important message. Your authority, President, is doing so much. We are at your side, and that is why we will vote with absolute conviction on the majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u91	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we shall vote on the majority resolution and I would like to take up, in my explanation of vote, some points with a great deal of truth and synthesis, which President Draghi has also strongly proposed to us in his replies. I come to the first question. Europe - all have emphasized it - has acted in a clear and unitary way in its response, both in the choice of sanctions, and in being compact in the reaction to aggression by Putin to Ukraine. Now, in order to continue to give strength to this unity - I say this very clearly - it is absolutely necessary that a united European response be made both to the crisis from the point of view of employment and the effort to build peace and to the crisis that has opened up in our countries as a result of sanctions. With regard to the unitary response, in the majority resolution we write that it is clear that we must take responsibility for what involves the right and sacrosanct choice of sanctions and there can probably also be others with regard to the countries most penalized. As far as the energy crisis is concerned, the points are very clear: not only common storage and supply, but we must set a ceiling for the price of energy at European level and we must work, Mr Draghi, even more. The decree for the taxation of extra-profit is certainly right, but we must make a truly incredible effort and no longer deferable as far as renewables are concerned; this will lead us to energy independence. Within a very short time, a few months, we can approve and give the green light to 60 gigawatts. Here we need an effort like what we have been able to do on other occasions. Let me turn to the second question. It was said of the famous Latin saying, which we all remember: si vis pacem, para bellum. But now it is time to say (and here there is an even stronger role than Europe): vis pacem, para pacem. Here is the united response from Europe, which is not only what we do in the face of aggression. Today Europe (not the individual country) must be the negotiator, its vocation can only be this: it must be the negotiator who manages not only to build a path of dialogue, but finally to end the conflict. This is in the European spirit and we will be able to do so if we really take responsibility, like Europe, for the common fund, for the common debt and for the revision of that Stability Pact and for those rules that had already failed to respond and were not up to the 2008 crisis. All the more so now, they must be reviewed in depth and quickly - as you yourself said, Mr President - because we cannot allow the citizens of Europe to feel somehow abandoned. Unfortunately, in the war, Mr President, it is always the poor people - both the poor people of the losers and the poor people of the winners - who in the end risk paying the price. However, we cannot allow this, for our country and for the dignity of Europe. You said that defence and foreign policy must go together: but look, Mr President, that in order to do this we must have a clear sense of the construction of foreign policy, which has always been a problem, and above all we must be clear that we cannot start with the single race of each nation to rearm, but all this must take place within the framework of common defence, in which the rules and governance must be clear, absolutely accompanied, not as a surplus, by a genuine foreign policy. In this way peace is prepared and not war. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u94	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have been experiencing dramatic moments for weeks now: a war in the heart of Europe, which has perhaps caught us too unprepared and still presents us with a difficult challenge. It is clear that the conflict in Ukraine, its geopolitical consequences and its economic and social effects will catalyse the attention of the European Council. The united reaction of Europe, a valuable and less obvious response than what has appeared, is a milestone from which to start and a conquest daughter of the need, rather than a design, a point of support to build a new Europe, that Europe that is lacking, that is needed, but that we know is still far away. A foreign and defence policy, however, is not born out of nothing, it is not sudden and cannot be based on emergencies; as has often been the case in history, when the unpredictable takes shape, everything changes and of necessity can be made virtue. Mistakes and twists can be corrected and a new season run. The Ukrainian story in this sense is a watershed. The use of force as a means of changing borders is not acceptable. That is why I believe that the European Council, before the Russian deafness and in the face of the precise demands made, also contained in the Versailles Declaration, cannot fail to consider further measures to supplement the four packages of sanctions that have been launched. It is not a question of exasperating the conflict, risking a decommissioned reaction with catastrophic consequences. Today, however, in the face of violence that also affects helpless and defenceless people, we are called to support the Ukrainian people even more. It is for this reason that we should be ready to do what is necessary: the more clean we are, the more firm we are, the more room there will be to strengthen diplomacy. We must know that there will be no dialogue without firmness. The problem is not to decide won and winners, but to give an outlet to the current war crisis. The instrument of sanctions, which in other circumstances has largely created many perplexities, is a possible answer, but this effort of ours, of which we pay the consequences as a country system, whose costs we know are pouring into businesses and citizens, must not be frustrated and cannot be bypassed by triangulations that know of mockery and cause double damage to our companies and our economy. On this subject, Mr Draghi, I would like to suggest to the European actors - the Community institutions - that they use all their diplomatic power and not only, because more and more countries, but also other actors adopt coherent and clear attitudes. Since the summit will also address the issue of China-EU relations, on the basis of what the United States has done, we must demand great clarity from Beijing and the end of any ambiguity on the Ukrainian issue. What must not escape anyone in this House and in the country is that under attack there is not only Kiev; under attack are the reason overwhelmed by bullying, international law and order based on shared rules and the sacred principle of self-determination of peoples, which must also apply to the Ukrainian people. Finally, the fate of our Western democracies is at stake. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who speaks to you is certainly not a dangerous warhead animated by ideological sectarianism, nor a person who escapes the contradictions and mistakes of the past, which we should also reflect on. However, we must know - and I say this also to the few colleagues who have expressed doubts and concerns about arming the Ukrainian resistance - that an unarmed peace exists only in the field of ideal. Let us be careful not to fall into intellectual sophisms, which risk giving cover and alibi to the aggressors. It is still alive the memory of the marches of peace in the 1970s and early 1980s, which were later discovered to be financed by Moscow. It is therefore clear that as Italy and as Europe we must strengthen our commitment and therefore the resources for our defence, also and above all within NATO, which for too long has divided the two sides of the Atlantic. The presence of the President of the United States on the first day of the summit is therefore good. As Italy, we must focus on the strengthening of Euro-Atlantic relations, which have suffered deep divisions over the years, which transcend the presidencies and their tenants. It is a relationship to be strengthened, a common guide of the West to protect and defend our founding values. Returning to the theme of defence, however, from this point of view too, the Ukrainian conflict marks a watershed. The threats are multiplying, some are not even so veiled, as in the case of Minister Guerini, to whom our closeness and solidarity goes. The same news of nuclear submarines in the Mediterranean, a few kilometres from our coasts, makes the idea of how radical the change of paradigm we will have to face. We therefore need, like Italy, to have a strong ability to deter and protect our national interests. We must do so in the context of the Atlantic Alliance, with a united and conscious Europe that invests and develops synergies and joint projects on defence and security within it. Peace, security and independence must be the key words of our horizon. On this too, the objectives of the informal summit in Versailles are more than acceptable, but they must be implemented in practice. On the energy theme we play a game of vital importance. Without prejudice to the prospect of energy saving from just one producer by 2030, the subject of storage and the European roof at gas prices, we must be careful not to give in to vicious rhetoric. The future will also be green, but in the present, as we all know, the supplies of fossil fuels are irreplaceable. The energy challenge for Europe will be many: on the one hand, the issue of harmonization of energy policies, which are different and disconnected from country to country; on the other, the great theme of returning to the enlarged Mediterranean, placing the problem of its stability and a new policy in the area. This is an issue which Europe and the Atlantic Alliance themselves must address, especially in the light of the continuing tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean. On economic issues, Italy will have to put the issue of how to find the new resources that we will need to meet the objectives we have set ourselves as soon as possible. We know that economic issues are divisive in Europe, but Putin's war has not only preached Europe's recovery, but it puts us in the face of the need for new resources. It is therefore clear that the suspension of the Stability Pact should be postponed well beyond the end of 2022 and that it should be committed to a thorough revision of an anti-historical text. [[Applause.]] We need a new approach and a European agreement on extra-trade. In fact, I would not like to suggest that some "falco" suggest to contract national extradeficit, except then, as soon as the Burian passes, impose draconian measures for the rapid return of the parameters. Europe, if it wants to be truly united before this war, cannot fail to give an answer as soon as possible on these issues: let us call them eurobonds or recovery - bis, like the French proposal, but we must drive away obtuse rigorism from the culture of certain bureaucracy and certain European governments. President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is a peaceful country, which sincerely wants peace, which will work to reach it, which will never fail to unite its voice with those of all the wills of peace that work in the world. I wish her every luck, in the common interest, on the basis of these arguments that are contained in the resolution, I declare the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u97	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of just and proper support for the Ukrainian people, from a humanitarian and economic point of view, as well as for military aid - which you and your Government are pursuing - we are allowing ourselves to give you a suggestion, Mr Draghi. We ask you to use a little more calm in some circumstances, because on some occasions they were too belligerent, or at least they were perceived as such: the population gets scared and we think that public opinion should be reassured. On the other hand, at a stage like this, public opinion is absolutely important. At the same time, I recall that Italy is a country with a very long tradition of diplomacy of the highest level, which must be taken into account. [[Applause]] The same determination and determination as you and the action of the whole Government, we call for action to convince the European Union that aid is also needed for the internal economies of the Member States of the European Union. We need help from our families, as well as from our businesses. President Draghi, on the internal front, the economic repercussions of this war will mainly affect the ordinary people, what has remained - let us say - of the middle class: small and medium-sized enterprises, artisans, traders, professionals, micro-entrepreneurs, farmers; that economic fabric that has made Italy great in history [[Applause]] and that today, after two years of pandemic, it is already quite martyred. There are many entrepreneurs who can't stand it anymore, there are many who are closing and can't keep it open. This is serious damage. We call on the Government and you, Mr President, to ask the European Union not only to intervene to protect strategic industrial areas, but also this middle class, which for us Italians is and has always been strategic. We must not forget also the many companies that will suffer losses due to the application of sanctions against Russia. Just to give examples, the Lombardy-Russian interchange is worth about 3 billion - Confcommercio Lombardy has told us - of which 1.5 billion only for the city of Milan. We cannot forget that there are also 447 Italian companies operating in Russia, with a turnover of about 7.4 billion, which today feel abandoned to themselves. You, Mr Draghi, who determines European choices, despite perhaps your low profile wants us to believe otherwise, let the partners of the European Union understand that we cannot return to the Europe of accountants and numerals. We absolutely need an expansionary policy and extra spending space, because we have to help our internal economies. [[Applause]] In a policy - let's say so - also of control, in order to try to avoid the speculative bubbles that have hit not only the fuel, let us remind you for example the fact that lately the large shipping companies - ten in the world, of which four Europeans and one Swiss - have suddenly made all cartels and have increased the transport costs of twelve times, not justifying not even an increase of the fuel itself. Is there a European Commission body responsible for antitrust? Yes, so why doesn't he intervene? We need immediate action, otherwise with these transport costs we risk really putting much or much of our entrepreneurial fabric on our knees. We therefore count on his intervention, because what we must avoid, after two years of pandemic and now the arrival of war, is that Italy, increasingly weakened in its productive system, becomes the victim of predatory activity of foreign countries and capitals. [[Applause]] We cannot afford to become a sort of European discount. Let's close quickly with the theme of green transition, which must be built. Of course we agree: it must be built, yes, but gradually, because one cannot think of doing so with that ideological supposition of those who have aimed to put out the fossil energies (coal, oil and gas) without having first ensured an alternative energy self-sufficiency. [[Applause]] It was a short-sighted European Union policy, of which we are unfortunately paying the price today. Similarly, we pay the price on other issues, such as the fact that the issue of agriculture, which is now central with the emergency that you have highlighted, has always been put by the European Union as opposed to the environment: no, it is a strategic mistake. [[Applause]] which, unfortunately, has contributed over the years and now to putting ourselves in the political conditions, as we said before, of emergency. We probably would have been more prepared if there hadn't been this shortsightedness. For these reasons, in telling you these things and giving you, as we said at the beginning, some suggestions, we announce the League's vote in favour of majority resolution, built with the right balance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u100	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, President Draghi, Government, colleagues, since 24 February, the day this war began, there are thousands of victims: almost a thousand civilians are killed, more than one hundred children. Every day of extra war, President, means more deaths, more children, more women and older people killed, more bodies in those mass graves obtained in the parks of which President Zelensky spoke. Every day of extra war, President, means more cities, more hospitals, more theatres destroyed, more people forced to leave their homes. To date, more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens have left their homes. Let's imagine, for example, if all the Lombard citizens left their homes. Every day of extra war, Mr President, means a greater risk of this conflict spreading. You are in trouble or there is a risk of World War III, said President Zelensky, and we share this appeal. President Draghi, we believe that the objectives of this European Council must be three: the first is to obtain an immediate ceasefire; the second is to structure the reception network; the third is to put in place measures to combat the economic repercussions of this war. The first objective, President, which concerns the immediate cease-fire, is not only necessary to get to a negotiating table, but it is essential above all to secure the many people who want to leave the country and who are trapped under bombs. The ceasefire also serves to bring humanitarian aid to Ukraine: the Red Cross and the UN Refugee Agency are asking for it. They can't send medicines or food aid, and in some cities they even lack water. The second objective is to structure the reception network, because, President, we must prevent what happened at the beginning of this pandemic, that is, that the regions move in scattered order. We are asked by our mayors and third sector bodies, but also by the many voluntary associations that are facing this emergency. For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars for weeks has been working to build a network of solidarity between institutions, third sector bodies and associations. We have also tabled a motion in Parliament and in the Regional and Municipal Councils, which is precisely for the creation of this network. [[Applause]] However, the reception must also be structured at European level. The adoption for the first time of the directive which gives these people refugee status, but - as you said, Mr President - the more than 420 million which the European Community has allocated must be used immediately. We want this not to be the exception, but the opportunity to review the overall policy for the reception of refugees in Europe, because if today the first port countries are Poland, Hungary and Romania, yesterday the first port country was Italy and tomorrow will be again Italy, Greece and Spain. This really must be the time to achieve solidarity and shared responsibility for the reception of migrants and to overcome the Treaty of Dublin, as the 5 Star Movement has long been calling for. [[Applause]] The third objective is to put in place measures to deal with the devastating economic consequences of this war and the necessary sanctions that have been applied to an economy that was already struggling to rise up after the pandemic. We therefore need efficient and new instruments and there are many proposals that we have included in the motion for a majority resolution which you and my colleagues have already mentioned today. These include a European cap at the price of gas; the separation of the gas market from that of renewables; instruments to counter financial speculation which is inflating market prices; taxation of extra profits, i.e. those excess gains that need to be shifted to help the sectors most affected. We also call for a new energy recovery fund, based on common debt, to help the most exposed countries. We also call for increased investment in renewables, because this is the way to achieve true energy independence and to implement the ecological transition that is at the heart of our political and European agenda. [[Applause]] We also call for the suspension of the Stability Pact to be extended, which must be fully reviewed because the austerity of recent years has created an unfair and unfair social model which must now be overcome. Mr President, these are the priorities of Movimento 5 Stars. It is also clear that there is a sacrosanct need to ensure greater security for European citizens. This increased security must, however, be achieved with a common European defence that is the expression of a more united European foreign policy that moves from rationalization, resource efficiency, strengthening coordination, the implementation of the European strategic compass (as indicated in the motion for a resolution) and the strengthening of cybersecurity and the use of new technologies. But woe to think of subtracting the funds from the reforms that this country has been waiting for decades. [[Applause]] Woe to think that it is no longer necessary to reform health and education and to invest in research and development. I would like to end by talking about another war that has gone into the background, but that we are still fighting - the war against Covid - since a few days ago a very important result was achieved, the result of a battle that the Movimento 5 Stars fought almost alone, namely the agreement between the European Union, America, South Africa and India to temporarily suspend the patents on vaccines. Mr President, we ask you to push the European Council for a temporary derogation from the TRIPs Agreement to allow free access for all citizens of the world to anti-Covid drugs and vaccines. [[Applause]] War is an immense tragedy and this war is even more so; we feel it as more distressing perhaps because it is closer to us, but it is only - tragically - the last of the wars that are taking place in the world. Each year there are about 20 that cause more than 190,000 deaths, 90 percent of which are civilians. As Gino Strada said, they are the children of the poor because if in peace time they are the children who bury the fathers, in war time they are the fathers who bury the children, those soldiers sent to war without knowing who and what to fight. War is also lies and propaganda and this war is also Putin's lies and propaganda. [[Applause]] War erases the present and the future and annihilates peoples. In war they all forgive: the Pope also often reminds us that war is a defeat for humanity. Then the 5 Star Movement, which is against all wars, asks her to become a builder of peace. President Mattarella exhorted us politicians some time ago to become builders of good; the greatest good we have is peace, so we ask the Government and Italy to be builders of peace in this conflict and we will vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u102	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u103	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, President Draghi says he does not want the escalation, but in fact increases the expenditure on arms; he says he believes in diplomacy, but in fact sends missiles and tanks; he calls for peace, but in fact exposes Italy to the risk of war. President Draghi is a hawk disguised as a dove. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u104	Maybe we should sharpen the language a little.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u105	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Hawk disguised as a dove does not seem an insult to me, it seems to me that it paints the situation well; if you prefer I can speak of wolf disguised as a lamb. That's the theme. Yesterday, sitting comfortably in a golden throne like tonight, he urged the people to fight to the end and in his interventionist heat he claimed to speak on behalf of the whole Parliament and of all the Italian people. I would like to inform you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that there is at least one party in Parliament that opposes you proudly, it is called Alternative. [[Comments]] and represents the millions of Italians who do not want any involvement in this dirty war. I know that you are one of the leaders most sensitive to the orders given by the Atlantic powers and that you will work in the European Council to ensure that the interests of the Italian people are sacrificed on their altar. Nevertheless, I have tabled a motion for a resolution with my colleagues which sets out the way to avoid escalation, saving thousands of human lives, primarily Ukrainian. No to sending weapons. No to Italian involvement in war. No at higher arms costs. Yes to a Europe that immediately promotes a peace conference, in the exclusive interest of the peoples involved. This motion for a resolution clears the field from the hypocrisies: those who do not vote for it must tell the Italian families that they do not arrive at the end of the month, that they spend money on weapons and instruments of war. Whoever does not vote for it exposes Italy to the risk of a war that will have neither won nor won. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u107	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u108	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, from October to December 2021 the price of gas rose by 76.2% over the previous quarter, an increase of 250 percent over the previous year; the price of petrol, charged by 18 one-off and excise duty, to EUR 2.35 per litre, has an industrial cost of less than EUR 1; the discount of 25 cents per litre for one month, compared to the receipts of 24 billion of excise duty collected in 2021 (page 7 of the 2021 tax revenue bulletin), is a mockery. In the war Russia-Ukraine there is an aggressor, who I strongly condemn, and an attacker who has my full solidarity, but the sending of weapons, in violation of Article 11 of the Constitution, feeds the conflict instead of cooling it. We would need more humanitarian aid and intensified efforts for a diplomatic solution to avoid the irreparable, although the notorious exporters of democracy in the world with the bombs and their NATO armed arm have succeeded, after the failure of President Biden in Afghanistan, in the masterpiece of downloading to Europe and the already vexed citizens, the human, economic and material costs of the conflict, with the sanctions paid to Russia by the Italians. The war to come, Mr President, is not the first. There were other wars before. At the end of the last one, there were winners and losers. Poor people were hungry among the losers. Among the winners the poor people were also hungry; so said Bertolt Brecht. Those who live in the bubble of unique thought who do not admit criticism, bully as Putin's flanker all those who do not genuflect to the US-NATO doctrine, not realizing that it blows on the fire of World War III. "Spending in arms is a scandal that dirty humanity," Pope Francis said today. However, its government wants to increase its military spending by EUR 13 billion a year, from 25 to 38, for a cost of EUR 104 million a day, while it does not find funds to help families and businesses devastated by the crisis and sanctions. [[Applause]] Madam President, in conclusion, 'history', Marx said, is always repeated twice: the first as a tragedy, the second as a farce. I hope and believe that avoiding the greatest tragedy for humanity is still possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u110	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u111	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, Mr Draghi, you surprised me very much when you said that we should not make the mistake of endorsing opposition between the West and Russia. I was surprised because this was not the line adopted until yesterday, but you yourself said that this was in response to a controversy born in these days, that is feeding a clash of civilizations. The speeches you have been making this month and, with you, your ministers, have been divisive. It was speeches in which you thought you could omit what is an emergency that we cannot put aside because it is not waiting for us: I am talking about the climate emergency. This emergency should teach us an extremely important fact: the world is one and we must understand that it is necessary for us to prevent identities from suffocating diversity. The parties must confront each other in order to return to third-party positions. We must be the new paradigm, we cannot return to an East-West opposition. We must bring peace to the planet. You say, however, quite rightly, that this can only happen when Moscow wants it. This can only happen when we are available to find the third position and not to consider all positions carried on the tables inadmissible. We cannot do this by increasing military spending, arms and strengthening the armed alliance. These are divisive discourses that make the difference between us and others, our values and their values. This means going back to the Cold War, if not to the Third World War. On the other hand, we must build the autonomous and sovereign European entity as a political entity that is not subject to other interests. Europe must be a mediator for peace and cooperation, finding its roots. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u113	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u114	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, on a day and a half, Mario Draghi is telling us that he wants peace, but he wants to give more weapons to the Ukrainian resistance and that he already sees Ukraine in Europe, in that Europe which, of course, in the emergency of the war, must make the leap and have a common defence identity. Exactly as with vaccines - said the governor - we must have the same vision for defence, that is, weapons and military instruments in general. Why should we arm Europe and disassemble Italy? When would the Italians decide that we should give up another piece of sovereignty to assemble military Europe? In the electoral programs of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League there was much more written, it was a sovereignist thesis that. As for sending other weapons, then, I have never seen a negotiator arm one of the two parties and then be credible in the mediation process. If we really want to stop this conflict and if we really want it not to spread, it would be good to weave with patience and without the muscularity that yesterday and today Draghi has performed, so the muscles of Draghi are doped, everyone knows it. [[Comments.]] Today Putin said that he wants Russian gas to be paid in rubles, that gas that has not at the moment made even a drop less than either the Europeans or the Ukrainians. I don't know what you're gonna do, I'm sure I know that the ruble, in the month of war, had a 42% loss on the euro in the first two weeks and recovered 32% in the last two: this revaluation shows that sanctions are not needed. What do dragons and the government want to do? Staying with Ukraine without if and without but does it provide for the freezing of gas? Tell the Italians, go on television and say that we no longer buy Russian gas and patience if families and small businesses have to rethink their economies. Germany - I tell you - will not and the Italy of Draghi? Since we're here, Draghi could have his Minister Di Maio explain why we paid over three million euros to the medical and military personnel sent by Russia at the beginning of the Covid emergency. More than three million to have masks and swabs and more sufficient material for a day of pandemics. What's going on, Dragons? You have to explain it to us, too, since you're clearing part of that account now. Or is he a gnome like derivatives money? I come to the final consideration. Do you really think that the solidarity of Italians is enough for a people on the run? Do you really think that more than 10 million displaced people - a number destined to increase - can be disposed of from a Europe that has never found a common line on migration flows but merely menephregism? Tell us.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u115	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Lannutti and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). With regard to motion for a resolution No 2, I believe that Senator Ciriani had requested a split vote during his speech in an explanation of vote. However, he did not specify which parts he would like to separate.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u116	Mr President, with regard to motion for a resolution No 2, we would like to vote separately on the premises of the system and then, within the system, we would like to vote on all paragraphs except 10, so we would ask that paragraph 10 be voted separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u117	I understood that he wanted to vote on premises and arrangements with the exception of paragraph 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u118	CIRIANI (FdI). No, we would also like to vote separately on the premises.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u119	In accordance with Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, the House decides on this request for a split vote. I put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 2. It's approved. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, De Petris, Nannicini, Garavini, Bonino and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the operative part, with the exception of paragraph 10), of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, De Petris, Nannicini, Garavini, Bonino and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 10 of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, De Petris, Nannicini, Garavini, Bonino and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Crucioli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). With the exception of paragraphs 1), 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15, the Government gave an opinion against the motion for a resolution No 4. Senator Ciriani requested a split vote. I put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 4. It's approved. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14) and 15) of the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 3), 4, 9, 10 and 16 of the motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2022-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-417.ana.u121	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 24 March, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 4.52 p.m.)
